
There are ways of measuring competitiveness in sportspeople. The most effective is getting them to play a sport that is not their vocation. For the England cricketer Jenny Gunn, that sport is football.
She played for Notts County and was even called for England trials, only for cricket to put a fork in both at the age of 17. She has ambitions to play Sunday league when she calls time on a career that, so far, has given her 13 years at international level. When Mark Robinson took over as England head coach at the end of 2015, he reinstated football to the warm-ups. The squad, multi-sported, were thrilled. Not Gunn.
“Oh, it was ridiculous,” she shouts. “There’s a no tackling rule. How are we supposed to get the ball? You end up backing off and allowing them time and space. You know what – I’d rather not play. My dad taught me: ‘You go hard or go home.’ That’s what his coach taught him. Go into every tackle like you meant it.”
Her father, by the way, is Bryn Gunn, a retired professional footballer who played more than 100 times for Nottingham Forest, winning the 1980 European Cup. That coach? Brian Clough. She spends the next 10-minutes doing her best Cloughie impression: laying into referees and mourning the modern game.
It’s a passion at odds with Gunn’s humble demeanour: one that forms the foundation of 132 ODI, 95 T20I and 11 Test caps. She sneaked to the top of the English one-day international wicket-takers list with 123 at an average 27. All with little fanfare. Typically, she wants nothing to do with it: “Oh, don’t pay too much attention to that,” she says. “Katherine Brunt’s only four away from beating me. She deserves it.” The former England coach Mark Lane put it best on Gunn, a low-maintenance, uncomplicated individual: “She has her tea at teatime”.
Yet Lane also marked Gunn as his “luxury player”: a bowler of yorkers, a batter with a breezy cameo in the chamber and a gifted fielder. During Lane’s tenure, one of English cricket’s most successful, Gunn was his vice-captain. In 2014, she was appointed MBE for services to cricket. That she is preparing for her fourth World Cup, aged 31, is a testament to the wedding of natural aptitude and grit that doesn’t lie far from the surface.
Over the last year, she has lost long-term team-mates in Charlotte Edwards and Lydia Greenway. Surely Gunn was worried she was next? “Oh yeah, there’s always going to be that thought when a new coach comes in,” she acknowledges. “Especially coming in from the men’s game. You don’t really know what his views are. But we sat down as a team early on and Robbo put my mind at ease with something he said: ‘I’ve got nothing about age. If you can do it, you’re old or young enough.’ That relaxes you a bit. And on top of other changes, you realise you belong and you can challenge yourself to get better.”
Now she is craftier with the ball, variations plentiful and execution of slower balls at such a level that Robinson calls her a “world-class spinner”. Tongue in cheek, sure, but a clear sign of endearment.
She laughs it off – “People seem to love telling me how slow I am” – but appreciates the sentiment. She has been called worse.
At the end of her England debut in 2004, in South Africa, Gunn was called into the umpire’s office. “You chuck it,” said one of the officials. Five years later, she was called while playing in Perth and banned from bowling in domestic cricket.
It is the timing of that call, months before the 2009 World Cup in Australia, in which the hosts’ biggest rivals were England, that Gunn finds suspicious: “I think they were doing it to unsettle me. And us as a side. I really believe that.”
She was allowed to bowl in the World Cup, provided she was not called while playing for England in the warm-ups. As fate would have it, the same umpire that called Gunn was standing for their final game before the tournament. As a result, she did not bowl that day and went on to take five wickets at an economy rate of 3.82 in England’s successful campaign.
When Gunn became the first woman accepted into the Nottinghamshire academy (she now plays for Warwickshire) most of her time off the field was spent as a lab rat. To correct a quirk where her right arm comes out before coming past her ear – rather than the conventional “wheel-like” motion of most bowlers – she was ordered by coaches to run through the academy corridors and simulate bowling while pressed up against the wall. This, they believe, would stop her arm from moving out. It did not work. “It was the stupidest thing,” she says. “In a normal situation, the wall’s obviously not there, is it? Great idea that was.”
When she was called in 2012 (then cleared within two months) she underwent tests at Loughborough and the University of Western Australia – an institution that has saved the careers of many, including Muttiah Muralitharan – carried out alongside match footage to ensure she was bowling “completely”. It found that Gunn’s right-arm hyper-extended by 14 degrees. Coupled with her initial outward movement, it gave the illusion of chucking. The greatest “flex” in her action – when she bowls a rare bouncer – is 10 degrees, comfortably below the ICC’s limit of 15.
“At first it really gets to you,” she freely concedes. “I mean, I couldn’t change. But after being tested I know I’m nowhere near. The footage of me bowling in super slow-mo, it makes me sick when I see my arm go back.
“It doesn’t bother me at all now, even when the crowd shout ‘no ball’. Sarah Taylor always calls me Chucky. Danielle Hazell has a go at me for wearing long sleeves, saying: ‘All chuckers wear them.’”
Gunn accepts she will hear it more this summer from opposition fans and pundits alike. You would think this down-to-earth, retiring type would be bothered. She’s not. “It just makes me laugh, though. If they’re doing that, I know I’m one up on them.”
England’s women have taken over as the world’s top-ranked team following a convincing and fully deserved triumph over the Black Ferns. The Red Rose forwards laid the foundations of a famous win, only England’s second over their opponents on Kiwi soil, which bodes well for the forthcoming women’s World Cup to be held in Ireland in August.
England’s haul of five tries on a damp, murky evening at the same venue as the Lions’ fixture against the Maori was a fitting reward for a dominant effort up front. Three of the scores were the product of rolling mauls to which the hosts had no real answer. At least one touring team has cracked the secret of winning a major Test match in New Zealand.
It was the Red Roses who seized the early initiative with a well-taken try from the centre Emily Scarratt in the left corner with barely two minutes gone. The captain, Sarah Hunter, was a constant energising force from No8 and the home side found it hard throughout to establish any kind of territorial pressure.
Given the opportunity to attack from long range, however, the Black Ferns are frequently as deadly as their male counterparts. A gloriously skilful chip and chase score from their talented scrum-half Kendra Cocksedge levelled the scores before the pacy Portia Woodman intercepted an attempted pass from Scarratt to outsprint the retreating cover from 60 metres.
Remarkably, New Zealand could not score any further points until the 78th minute of the game as England took increasing control, thanks partly to their shrewd kicking game. Abbie Scott was duly credited with the first of England’s close-range tries but, with the scores level at 14-14 at half-time, it was a contest still awaiting a decisive intervention.
A key moment arrived within three minutes of the restart when a well-worked lineout move resulted in Katy McLean putting Lydia Thompson over in the right corner. The all-action Marlie Packer soon claimed a fourth score before replacement Vicky Fleetwood touched down beneath a heap of bodies to record England’s fifth try.
New Zealand did claim a late consolation but could not prevent England securing their first victory anywhere in this fixture since 2012. A delighted Hunter revealed the forwards had talked before the game about emulating England’s men, who beat the All Blacks in New Zealand in 2003 prior to lifting the World Cup later that same year. “We’re by no means the finished article but it does send a statement and we’ll take confidence from coming to such a tough place and winning,” said Hunter. “Everyone did their job from numbers one to 23.”
Hunter’s own performance drew particular praise from England’s head coach, Simon Middleton, whose side have also defeated Australia and Canada in this month’s international series as they prepare to defend their World Cup title. “She’s a fantastic captain and a fantastic player,” said Middleton. “That’s why she’s world player of the year. We’re really happy and very proud.”
New Zealand: Winiata; Woodman, Waaka, Alley (Subritzky-Nafatali, 68), Wickliffe; Brazier, Cocksedge (Sue, 67); Natua, Faamausili (capt), A Itunu, E Blackwell, Smith, Everitt, Goss, L Itunu.
Tries: Cocksedge, Woodman, Subritzky-Nafatali. Cons: Cocksedge 2, Brazier.
Sin-bin: Faamausili, 36.
England: Waterman (E Scott, 67); Thompson, Scarratt, Burford (A Reed, 59), Wilson; McLean, Hunt (Mason, 40); Clark (Cornborough, 54), Cokayne (Fleetwood, 54), Bern (Lucas, 54), Taylor, A Scott, Mathews, Packer (Noel-Smith, 59), Hunter (capt; Millar-Mills, 67).
Tries: Scarratt, Scott, Thompson, Packer, Fleetwood. Cons: Scarratt 2.
Referee: A Perrett (Australia).
Scotland consigned the Wallabies to a humbling 24-19 Test defeat in Sydney in front of a stunned crowd of 30,721 fans at Allianz Stadium who watched the visitors avenge two heartbreaking one-point losses to Australia in the past two years with a stirring victory.
Israel Folau’s second tryscoring double in as many weeks couldn’t save the Wallabies, as Scotland confirmed their status as world rugby’s big improvers. Up to fifth in the rankings, the Scots cashed in on a disjointed display from Michael Cheika’s men.
As playmaker Bernard Foley admitted, the Wallabies were their own worst enemies during a dreadful first half. They trailed 17-12 at the break, gifting the Scots all of their points through an early penalty goal, then an intercept try to centre Duncan Taylor and a charge-down effort from goalkicking five-eighth Finn Russell.
Only Folau’s two strikes kept the Wallabies in the contest. Foley set both of them up for his NSW Waratahs team-mate either side of a stint in the sin bin for a late hit on Russell when Scotland’s inspirational No10 broke free with some innovative counter-attack from his own quarter.
First, Foley found Folau with a long ball in one of the Wallabies’ rare forays deep in Scotland territory. Then, on the stroke of half-time, Folau soared high above Scotland fullback Gordon Reid to reel in Foley’s pinpoint crossfield kick to give the Wallabies momentum heading into the second section.
But despite being a man down with No8 Ryan Wilson yellow-carded a minute before half-time, the Scots refused to yield until Australia briefly snatched the lead in the 57th minute. Foley’s successful conversion of a desperate dive-over try from Will Genia earned the Wallabies a 19-17 advantage.
But, a 50-metre try three minutes later to flanker Hamish Watson restored the visitors’ five-point lead and, despite several opportunities, the Wallabies were unable to find a reply to give Foley another chance to break Scottish hearts.
Last-gasp penalty goals from Foley had denied the Scots at the 2015 Rugby World Cup at Twickenham and again on the Wallabies’ spring tour last November.
After a moment of magic against South Africa from Zach Mercer, the captain, booked England Under-20s’ place in Sunday’s Junior World Cup final in Tbilisi, comparisons with their football counterparts were inevitable – they were not, however, wholly accurate. England’s football team winning any form of World Cup understandably commands attention but this is a fifth final in a row for a side who set out without five players away with Eddie Jones’s senior side in Argentina.
Oval ball success is sustained by England at this level and, while a rampant New Zealand stand between them and a fourth title in five years, the number of absentees makes their achievement of reaching the final in Georgia all the more impressive. Mercer’s omission by Jones for the Argentina tour was surprising but the Australian still took with him Tom and Ben Curry, Nick Isiekwe, Joe Cokanasiga and Jack Maunder. England have also suffered six injuries to their backs during the tournament in Georgia while Will Evans and Jamie Shillcock were ruled out before it started.
“It’s that context that makes the achievement of this group such a significant one,” says Dean Ryan, who took up the role of the Rugby Football Union’s head of international player development last July. “It’s that backdrop that makes it so significant. Under-20 World Cups are normally framed around three or four key individuals, not a collective, but the collective of this group has been a huge success. Against New Zealand, who unsurprisingly have a lot of very good individuals, this side has to be tactically very good and very collective but they have been all the way through.
After the footballers’ success, it was widely lamented that the pathway for those players to shine at senior level does not exist and while Ryan acknowledges it is also a problem within rugby, he points to the breakthrough of Tom Curry, Isiekwe and Maunder in Argentina as success stories.
“Watching Tom Curry last week was tremendous for us and the team here. To watch him win his first cap, to watch Nick Isiekwe come on and win a lineout, Jack Maunder fire it along for [Denny] Solomona to score [the winning try] – that’s fantastic for these lads because they can think: ‘That’s how close we are.’ Credit to Eddie for taking those players.” 
Potentially jeopardising the current blueprint for success is a move by the Premiership to expand its A League rather than continue to send youngsters on loan to Championship clubs where they can cut their teeth against seasoned senior players. The RFU is reportedly against the idea and Ryan is not convinced A League expansion is the answer.
“Having a clear playing programme for this group is key,” he says. “A lot of our guys have not played a huge amount of rugby prior to this World Cup. The best of them are playing in the Premiership, that’s great. But what are the next group doing and where do they play regularly? It’s obvious that some of the deficiencies is lack of game time.
“A second tier needs a combination of young and senior players. You have to find something that combines that. Any tournament format has to fulfil that. There are times that the A League can do that, there are times that it can’t. The combination is key.”
Back in the intensely hot summer of 2005, India and Pakistan played a six-match ODI series that wound its way from Kochi in the deep south to Jamshedpur in the east, before finishing in New Delhi via the western outpost of Ahmedabad. With India 2-0 up in the series, Osman Samiuddin, whose The Unquiet Ones is the definitive work on Pakistan’s cricket history, and I took the train from Visakhapatnam to Jamshedpur.
One of our fellow travellers was a former India cricketer. After a while, seeing the myriad emotions darting across Osman’s face, he sighed and said: “Go ahead, you can ask me. Everyone does anyway.” That man was Chetan Sharma, whose decade-long career included 23 Tests, 65 ODIs, a 10-wicket haul at Edgbaston and a whirlwind ODI hundred against England.
But a decade after he quit the game, Sharma was remembered on the subcontinent and by fans in the diaspora for just one ball, to Javed Miandad in the Austral-Asia Cup final in Sharjah on 18 April 1986. Miandad had navigated a tricky chase with some aplomb, whittling down the equation to four needed off the last ball.
Sharma tried for the yorker but could not land it. Miandad smeared the knee-high full toss over midwicket for six, levelling the head-to-head ODI record between the two countries at eight wins apiece.
At the time It was just one shot but, as the years passed, it became a festering wound in the psyche of Indian cricketers. Matches against Pakistan were invariably lost, especially when they were finals played in the Middle East in front of capacity Friday crowds.
It took India nearly two decades to inter that particular ghost. In March 2004, with cricket diplomacy taking centre stage, they set off on a first full tour of Pakistan in 15 years. By then, the head-to-head record had skewed to 52-30 in Pakistan’s favour. In an opening game at Karachi’s National Stadium, watched by millions across the globe, India piled up 349. With a ball to go, Pakistan needed six to pull off the most incredible of victories.
In one of those delicious ironies that sport often throws up, Miandad was Pakistan’s coach, watching like a cat ready to pounce from the dressing-room balcony. But Moin Khan, the wicketkeeper who faced the final ball from Ashish Nehra, was no Miandad. His wild heave did not even clear the infield. In the years since, India have won 21 matches to Pakistan’s 20.
On these very pages, in the days before that 2004 series, the late Mike Marqusee had written: “Cricket, like other mass spectator sports, is a magnet for meanings, a malleable metaphor. And in the past, cricket between India and Pakistan has served as both a symbol of south Asian harmony and a prime example of what George Orwell called ‘war minus the shooting’.”
The key words here are “the past”. After the relative detente of the early years of this century, political ties have been Arctic frosty over the last decade. Cricket, once seen as a builder of bridges between the two countries, is now hostage to political agendas on both sides, and there has been just one bilateral series – three ODIs in India in 2012-13 – since Pakistan came to India in late 2007.
The current generation of cricketers has not played each other often enough to become steeped in the rivalry, or to form the sort of friendships that existed at a time when cricket showed the way.
This decade, India and Pakistan have contested just 10 ODIs (India lead 7-3) and six Twenty20 internationals – the majority of them in multi-nation tournaments such as the World Cup and Champions Trophy.
More than three decades ago, administrators NKP Salve, Jagmohan Dalmiya and Nur Khan fought the established order to move the World Cup out of England for the first time. The dream was that India and Pakistan would contest the 1987 final at Eden Gardens in Kolkata.
Both teams duly topped their groups but Craig McDermott’s five for 44 for Australia in Lahore and Graham Gooch’s 115 in Mumbai sent Imran Khan into a darkened room and a subcontinent into depression.
Going back to the World Championship of Cricket, hosted by Australia in 1985, India and Pakistan have met 12 times in 50-over tournaments featuring each of the world’s leading sides. While the overall record stands at 72-52 in Pakistan’s favour, it is 10-2 to India in the games that matter, including 6-0 at the World Cup.
Over the years, that statistic has come to have the same effect on Pakistani cricketers and fans as the Miandad six once did on Indians. But having made the final against all odds, Pakistan, revitalised by the feisty leadership of Sarfraz Ahmed, have the look of destiny’s children. Against a Virat Kohli-led India, who have the happy knack of finding ways to win marquee matches, they will hope that it is the spirit of Miandad, rather than the ghost of Sharma, that influences their performance.
Dileep Premachandran was editor-in-chief of Wisden India
I have always been interested in fighting sports. I grew up obsessed with WWE, Fight Club is my favourite film and I remember watching Holyfield v Tyson, aged seven. But, until savate (pronounced “savat”), I had never done so much as a kickboxing class.
I stumbled on savate by accident. At the start of 2016, I had a lifestyle overhaul, gave up alcohol and cigarettes and started running more. Soon, running wasn’t enough. I searched for kickboxing classes in my area and found the London savate club. I had never heard of it. The site called it an “elegant kickboxing sport from France”. Kickboxing? Elegant? I was intrigued.
Savate combines French kicks – such as a fouetté (a whip or roundhouse kick) – with English boxing. There are two types of competition: combat and assaut. Combat savate is full contact, in which you are looking to knock out your opponent. In assaut savate, the kind practised in most UK clubs, excessive force is forbidden. Yes, you aim to kick and punch your opponent, but you don’t try to knock their head off, only to make contact. You score points for touches and the winner is the fighter who demonstrates the best technique and control. Not fearing for my face means I can think more strategically to anticipate my opponent’s attacks and work out how to counter them. It is in equal parts a mental and a physical workout.
The fights range from three 1.5-minute rounds up to five two-minute rounds, with a minute’s rest between rounds. I was nervous at first, but when nervous energy mixes with adrenaline and becomes an exciting, fast-paced and challenging bout, it makes me want to come back for more.
Savate has given me some incredible opportunities. In the past year, I’ve passed my blue and green glove gradings, travelled to Ireland and Hungary for competitions, become a British vice-champion and joined the GB squad. All without getting a single black eye.
How often do you train? I train twice a week, run twice a week and fit in a weights session if I can. Favourite move? Fouetté figure – a lovely French way of saying a kick to the head.
1 Find an authentic savate club. Many martial artists put savate on their CV, but fewer have trained with bone fide practitioners or have ever got into the ring. The Great Britain Savate Federation lists clubs with qualified instructors at savate.org.uk.
2 Don’t worry about being fit and flexible before starting. Well-run beginner classes won’t expect you to be Bruce Lee on your first night. Training makes you fitter – it doesn’t presuppose fitness.
3 Get in touch with a local savate club about watching a class to see what it is all about.
4 Boots are the most important piece of kit. The word savate refers to the boot worn by practitioners of old. It is hard to get hold of genuine savate boots in the UK, but a boxing boot without jagged edges or rough soles is similar.
5 Don’t worry about getting your head smashed in on your first night. Savate is a contact sport, but a good club won’t ask you to spar until you are ready.James Southwood, founder of London savate club and 2014 world champion
Despite only four wins, a poor percentage and three ordinary quarters against St Kilda, North Melbourne coach Brad Scott is still talking AFL finals.
North managed only four goals in the first three quarters against the Saints on Friday night and Scott lamented they were never really in the hunt.
The 17-point loss, on the night they honoured club legend Brent Harvey pre-game, left the Kangaroos languishing with a 4-8 record and a percentage well under 100.
But they also remain just two games outside the top eight, in a year when upset results are rife.
“It’s a strange season ... we’ll continue to play to win,” Scott said.
“We’re still in that group of a number of teams who still have genuine hope to play in September and that’s our ambition from this point on.
“So we’ll keep trying to play footy that’s capable of beating sides in September and we’ll keep picking the team to win games to get enough wins to try and compete.”
Scott said the final score flattered North and they paid dearly for too many basic errors, adding they will change their training routine to work more on their skills.
One positive was second-gamer Declan Mountford, who put everything into his tag on Saints star Jack Steven and kept him quiet for much of the first half.
While Steven went forward late in the second term and kicked two goals, Mountford earned a big tick from Scott for his performance.
Scott was also pleased for ruckman Todd Goldstein, who was high among North’s best after a run of below-par form.
Despite failing to finish the Kangaroos off in the final term on Friday, St Kilda coach Alan Richardson was rapt with the performance.
They led by 42 points midway through the last quarter, but took the foot off North’s throat.
The ‘Roos kicked the last four goals to restore some respectability after only kicking that many up to three-quarter time.
But the 12.17 (89)-10.12 (72) win broke St Kilda’s three-game losing streak and Richardson noted that, including the bye, they had gone a month without winning.
“I was really proud of them, the fact they were able to play in that sort of manner,” he said.
“Our focus was not necessarily about getting our season back on track, that was an outcome of playing good footy.
“What does our good footy look like? What does it mean for you as an individual? I reckon they had real clarity around that.
“Now we didn’t get it done in the last quarter, but there were three quarters of positive footy, the way we want to play ... they’ll get belief from that.”
The Saints are not yet out of trouble, but at 6-6 they remain in the top-eight hunt.
“We definitely need to improve, there’s no doubt about that, but it was a step towards getting our footy back and that was pleasing,” Richardson said.
Veterans Leigh Montagna and Nick Riewoldt played key roles after having plenty of focus on them during the week.
Montagna was nonplussed after commentator Dermott Brereton took aim at his form, while Riewoldt returned from two games out with a knee injury.
There is also ongoing talk about whether the former captain should keep playing beyond this season.
Montagna had a solid game off half-back, while Riewoldt was relentless with his hard running.
“At the risk of sounding like a horse trainer, I think he’ll be better for the run,” Richardson said of Riewoldt.
The match review panel will look at an incident where Riewoldt lashed out in retaliation at North’s Scott Thompson and hit him across the back, but the Saints star should avoid suspension.
If Rory McIlroy was a racehorse, there would have been no logic at all in ranking him among the favourites for an event of equivalent significance to the US Open. As golf’s version of a performer who is lightly raced, McIlroy arrived at Erin Hills having played only 22 competitive rounds in 2017.
That figure increased by only two, McIlroy’s second-round 71 in the second major of 2017 proving insufficient to improve the damage caused by an opening round of 78. McIlroy at least departed in reasonable spirits, his run of four birdies in six closing holes providing a glance back towards what the four-time major champion is capable of.
“In practice I was really good,” McIlroy said. “You play 54 holes around here before the tournament; I felt really comfortable. I drove the ball well, my irons were good. Everything was in good shape. But you never really know until you put a card in your hand and you’re under the gun a little bit.”
Rickie Fowler encountered pressure of his own, the first-round leader having reached the 11th on Friday without having dropped a shot in the tournament. Fowler promptly bogeyed three holes in a row. At six under, he is one from the halfway lead as held by four players. Two of that group, Paul Casey and Tommy Fleetwood, are English; Brooks Koepka and Brian Harman complete the quartet. Casey’s prominence is remarkable given the eight he posted at the 14th in round two.
The investigative skills of Quincy are hardly necessary when determining why McIlroy missed a second US Open cut in succession. This tournament has not been altogether kind to McIlroy aside from the 2011 occasion when he won it, let alone when the buildup was disrupted by fitness troubles. The rib problem that upset his opening to the year provides perfect explanation for the appearance of rust at Erin Hills. The equipment switch that was triggered by Nike’s withdrawal from the market also inevitably adds an element of upheaval that McIlroy would ideally have done without. These matters are all intrinsically linked; only by featuring at the business end of events can McIlroy perfectly attune himself to what new tools he has at his disposal, just as history shows he benefits from the confidence acquired from the very same scenarios. McIlroy relishes the momentum he has thus far been denied for reasons beyond his control.
“I’ve been very light on competitive rounds,” McIlroy said. “I think at this point in time I just need to play. And I feel, even though it’s very disappointing to not be here on the weekend, these last two rounds will serve me well going into the summer. Yesterday, coming off an injury, I was a little anxious going out there. I got off to a good start but it sort of caught up with me as the round went on. I think the more rounds I can play, I’m hopefully going to get rid of all that stuff and hopefully strip it down to what you saw the last six holes.”
Here is another reason for McIlroy cheer; no other player among the world’s leading group has recently embarked on a profitable run. The 28-year-old is hardly lagging behind in a wider context.
The next part of the season is key for him. Next week’s Travellers Championship begins a stretch of six events in eight weeks, including two major championships and one, the US PGA Championship, at the Quail Hollow venue he has previous for pulling apart. Should success arrive within this period, the frustrations of the first part of 2017 will be readily forgotten. Even when the major season concludes, McIlroy will not lack focus in respect of defending the FedEx Cup.
“I’m just excited to get a run of golf now,” he added. “I’m optimistic with where my game is. Hopefully I’ve got a lot of the bad stuff out of my system yesterday and some parts today. And again, it’s just a matter of getting competitive rounds under my belt. I’m playing next week in Connecticut. I’ve got a nice run leading up to the Open Championship. I’ve got a busy summer, so I’m excited to play a lot of golf. I feel like that’s going to help me to get back into contention and try to win some of these things. I’m hungry but I’m not going to force it. I’m going to let it happen. I’m going to play. The worst thing I can do is go and force it because that’s not my game.”
The key McIlroy problem on Friday was on the greens, leading to inevitable comment regarding his switch to a new putter in recent days. “I didn’t think it was the putter.It was the guy on the end of it,” he said. Jason Day also failed to survive for the closing 36 holes. Yet there was contrasting sentiment from the Australian. Day was bemused by an aggregate of 10 over par. “I felt the most calm I have in a major in a long time this week,” said Day after his 75. “Unfortunately this didn’t pan out. The golf course is beautiful. I just didn’t execute.”
Late on Friday, the world No1 Dustin Johnson completed a high-profile exodus from Wisconsin. Johnson added a 73 to his Thursday 75, thereby missing the cut by three. Only three months ago, an imperious Johnson appeared unbeatable. He has since missed the Masters through a freak accident and, via different circumstances, now been forced to watch another major weekend on television. “I couldn’t have shot any higher,” Johnson said. “I couldn’t possibly shoot any higher than I did. I just struggled on the greens. It’s simple.”
As McIlroy, Johnson and Day exited, Casey kept his dream of a first major win alive. “It’s not every day you can enjoy a round with an eight on the card but I’m a happy man,” Casey said. Casey has recorded three consecutive top-six finishes in the Masters but has only one top-10 in the US Open in 13 attempts, which came a decade ago at Oakmont.
“It feels good,” the 39-year-old said. “It shows what can happen if you get out of position on this course. Even just trying to take my medicine is very difficult. It’s a good eight in the end.”
Australia’s Adam Scott also failed to progress to the weekend.
If Sir Michael Stoute were in better form, I’d be tempted to accuse him of attempted robbery, running a proper Group horse like Thikriyaat (2.55) in a mere Listed contest at York today. But in fairness to the Newmarket trainer, winners have not exactly been tumbling out of his yard in recent weeks; let’s hope this proves a timely fillip for him ahead of Royal Ascot.
Ribchester was the only horse to beat Thikriyaat in his first five races, which also included a Group Three success at Glorious Goodwood. He had a fibrillating heart when well beaten on his final run last season and surely needed his return to action in a handicap.
There is more to come from him at the age of four and this return to a sound surface will help.
1.50 York Hurdling did not work out for the ex-Italian Azari but a return to Flat racing showed him in a pretty good light in a Wolverhampton claimer the other day. Having since moved from Paul Nicholls to Tom Dascombe, he looks like he belongs at this level and has one of the better riders involved.
2.05 Musselburgh The handicapper is probably right to rate Zac Brown a better horse on sand than on turf but he still has possibilities on grass, as he showed when winning at Goodwood last time. Charlie Wallis’s gelding faces a stiffer task here but could be up to beating the penalty.
2.20 York Shady McCoy is of interest, now that he’s back in a big field, but a wide draw is no help. Heaven’s Guest also loves a big-field handicap and has dropped to an enticing mark. His most recent effort hinted he might be on the way back and he went close from 9lb higher over this course and distance in May last year.
2.40 Sandown Tim Easterby’s team seem to be running their way into form and this doesn’t feel like the time to desert his Copper Knight, the winner of his last two starts. He made all to defy a mark of 95 in a York handicap last time and it seems a gelding operation has made quite a difference to this one, a flop in last year’s Windsor Castle when with Hugo Palmer.
3.10 Musselburgh Another Easterby runner, Orion’s Bow, might be worth a second look. The winner of five in a row for Dandy Nicholls last summer, he could be helped by this drop to five furlongs with a strong pace assured. Duke Of Firenze is respected but I don’t fancy his chance of picking a way through from his draw close to the stands’ rail, where runners will congregate in front of him through the early stages.
3.30 York Easterby has another fair chance with Golden Apollo, carrying a penalty for a jaw-dropping performance at Pontefract on Monday that left his previous form far behind. His trainer has won this race twice in the past four years.
Musselburgh 1.35 Donny Belle 2.05 Zac Brown 2.35 Khamaary 3.10 Orion’s Bow 3.45 Great Fighter 4.20 Magic Journey 4.55 Secret City 5.30 Sea Of Green
York 1.50 Azari 2.20 Heaven’s Guest 2.55 Thikriyaat (nb) 3.30 Golden Apollo 4.05 Visitant 4.40 Knockout Blow 5.15 Harbour Grey
Bath 1.55 Golden Muscade 2.25 Subjective 3.00 Short Call 3.35 Mister Musicmaster 4.10 Mamnoon 4.45 Zambezi Queen 5.20 Compton Prince
Sandown 2.10 The Big Lad 2.40 Copper Knight 3.15 Battered 3.50 Laidback Romeo 4.25 The Statesman 5.00 Musaahim 5.35 Vuela
Hexham 2.15 Bestwork 2.45 Enzani 3.20 Midnight Shot 3.55 Zarib 4.30 Petiville 5.05 Dica 5.40 Fred Le Macon 6.15 Fred The Foot (nap)
Lingfield 5.50 King Kevin 6.20 Ya Jammeel 6.50 Take Shelter 7.20 Cartographer 7.50 Captain Sedgwick 8.20 Margherita 8.50 Buxted Dream
Leicester 6.10 Pearl Noir 6.40 Sir Jack 7.10 Goodwood Crusader 7.40 Supersymmetry 8.10 Maximullius 8.40 Desert Cross 9.10 Majestic Stone
The British & Irish Lions have called up six replacements to join the tour party in New Zealand as cover for their final midweek fixtures. The players – four Welsh and two Scots – will help to bolster the bench against the Chiefs in Waikato on Tuesday. That will allow the coach’s first-choice 23 to prepare properly for next Saturday’s first Test against New Zealand.
Warren Gatland indicated as long ago as September he was considering calling up additional players and has decided to move before this weekend’s Test matches involving the home unions are completed. The choices of the scrum-half Gareth Davies, the lock Cory Hill, the tight-head prop Tomas Francis, the hooker Kristian Dacey, and Scotland’s centre Finn Russell and prop Allan Dell have, however, received some criticism from the England coach, Eddie Jones.
With the suggestion that the Lions calls have been influenced by geography – Wales and Scotland are currently in Australasia, while England are in Argentina – Jones told the BBC: “My only comment would be I would like to see it picked on merit rather than geographical proximity.”
With Stuart Hogg invalided out of the tour and with Owen Farrell and Courtney Lawes unavailable, the Lions would otherwise have had to ask several of their potential Test 23 to double up next week, had they stuck with only their existing tour members.
Several replacements were also summoned in the later stages of the 2013 tour, with one of them, Alex Corbisiero, going on to score a try in the decisive third Test win against Australia in Sydney. In addition to the game against the Chiefs in Hamilton, the Lions are due to face the Hurricanes in Wellington between the first and second Tests.
Any suggestion an influx of new players will merely widen an existing split between Test players and the rest of the squad, however, has been flatly denied. Steve Hansen, the All Blacks coach, said this week he felt the touring team had already divided into midweek and Saturday sides but the Saracens’ lock George Kruis insists that perception is false. “He’s entitled to his opinion and he’s obviously a well-respected coach but he doesn’t know what’s going on inside the camp,” Kruis said. “He can have his opinion but we’ve bonded pretty well.”
The precise length of Farrell’s recovery period remains unclear but grade one quadriceps strains like the one he sustained in training usually take between seven and 10 days to recover. That leaves him touch and go to feature at Eden Park but the Lions do have one advantage in the shape of Phil Morrow, Saracens’ performance director, who is part of the strength and conditioning team on this tour. If anyone should know how to get Farrell back to fitness it is the Ulsterman and Kruis also confirmed the fly-half will do everything in his power to be involved.
“He is professional and he’d do whatever it takes. Phil’s dealt with him for the last five to six years now so he’ll know what will get him going.”
If Farrell fails to make it and Jonathan Sexton picks up a knock against the Maori All Blacks, the Lions could well be down to their third choice No10, Wales’s Dan Biggar. That possibility lends a further layer of intrigue to the fixture, although Gatland’s players are determined not to panic.
“I don’t know if it will be a major blow to the squad,” said Sean O’Brien, looking forward to underlining his own claims for a place in the starting Test back row. “[Farrell] has a lot of experience, has been playing very well and he’s a good leader. He will obviously be a loss but there’s other lads there to fill that void.”
The Maori All Blacks will provide no respite as they seek to repeat their 19-13 victory over the Lions on the 2005 tour. They possess a good lineout threat and have as lethal a backline as the visitors will have experienced on this expedition to date. The Lions’ aggressive rush defence is not always easy to outwit but their opponents will have the skill and pace to test that theory with artful little chips in behind.
Ultimately this tour is all about belief and O’Brien, for one, still says New Zealand should be wary despite their warm-up rout of Samoa: “I don’t see an aura in terms of them being unbeatable. They’re a group of guys exactly like us who play rugby. Anything can happen on the day.”
The Lions will also be keen to impress the referee Jaco Peyper, who will preside over the first Test at Eden Park, too.
Judy Murray and Heather Stanning are among the leading sporting figures to feature in the Queen’s birthday honours list.
Murray, the former Great Britain Fed Cup coach and mother to the Wimbledon champions Andy and Jamie, will receive an OBE for services to tennis, women in sport and charity.
“I do what I love and I love what I do, so I feel very lucky to have been given this honour,” she said. “I’ll keep working hard to grow tennis and to promote women’s sport across the UK.” She is the third member of her family to be honoured after Andy was knighted in the new year, while Jamie also received an OBE in 2016.
The double Olympic rowing champion Stanning, who announced her retirement from the sport after successfully defending her title in Rio last summer, is also upgraded to an OBE. Stanning had been awarded an MBE in the wake of her first Olympic triumph, at London 2012.
The Ireland rugby union captain, Rory Best, who won his 100th cap for his country late last year, is another recipient of an OBE, for services to rugby. The 34-year-old is currently touring New Zealand with the British and Irish Lions, and offered his thanks to the scores of coaches, team-mates, friends and family he believes deserve to share in his honour.
“I’m just so surprised and humbled; it’s such a massive honour,” Best said. “To be recognised for contributing to a sport, for someone to feel I’m worthy of being nominated, and then to be deemed worthy, it’s quite incredible.”
Dick Greenwood, the former England rugby union captain and coach, receives an OBE for services to national and international rugby. The 75-year-old made five Test appearances between 1966 and 1969 and later took over as head coach from 1983 to 1985.
Greenwood said: “It’s something that crops up out of the blue and I’ve got a lot of people to thank for it. I’m a rugby man and rugby has been my lifelong passion. It is a great team game, so I am above all a team player, and my debt is to all my team-mates who have supported me through the years.”
John Conteh, the Liverpool light-heavyweight who held the WBC title between 1974 and 1978, is awarded an MBE for his services to boxing.
Conteh, who has played an active role with charities and the London ex-Boxers’ Association in retirement, joked: “I never even thought about the possibility of getting an honour – where I grew up the only letters you got were from the DHSS. It’s an absolute privilege and an honour and I’m so grateful to all the people who supported me and put me forward for this award.”
Scott Hann, the gymnastics coach who guided Max Whitlock to his double gold achievement at the Rio Olympics, is also given an MBE. Hann’s work at the South Essex club has been crucial in the remarkable recent success of the sport in Britain, which culminated in a total of seven medals in Brazil.
“Obviously it is recognition for all the hard work and commitment and dedication but it is never something as a coach you expect to receive,” Hann said. “At the end of the day I stand on the shoulders of so many giants, and I am privileged to get the chance to work with Max and so many other great athletes.”
The Northern Ireland football captain, Steven Davis, is another recipient of an MBE, having led his country to the last 16 at last summer’s European Championships.
The 32-year-old Southampton midfielder captained his country in France at their first major finals in 30 years and helped Michael O’Neill’s team to the knockout stages. Davis said: “I was shocked and taken aback when I was told about it. I thought it was a joke at first.
“It was just something that had never registered with me, that I might receive something like this. Now, however, I think it’s unbelievable. To get recognition like this when I’m still playing is a massive thing.”
Brian Noble, the former Bradford Bulls and Great Britain coach who is the current director of rugby at Toronto Wolfpack, receives an MBE for services to rugby league and charity.
Jennie Price, the Sport England chief executive since 2007, receives a CBE for services to sport, specifically for her work increasing levels of female participation.
A record 185-run fifth-wicket partnership between Samit Patel and Steven Mullaney guided Nottinghamshire into the Royal London Cup final with a five-wicket win over Essex at Chelmsford.
Nottinghamshire reached their target of 371 with three balls to spare – the highest successful run chase in a domestic List A competition – and they will face Worcestershire or Surrey at Lord’s on 1 July.
The pair came together after Brendan Taylor fell for 62 after putting on 100 with Patel for the fourth wicket and Nottinghamshire still had work to do at 180 for four just before the halfway mark.
Mullaney brought up his first List A century from 71 balls with a fifth six before he fell with victory in sight for 111 after striking six sixes in his 75-ball innings.
Patel saw Nottinghamshire home with an unbeaten 122 as they overhauled the record chase of 359 from Hampshire against Surrey in 2007.
Alastair Cook hammered his third century in the competition and Ryan ten Doeschate his second as Essex closed on 370 for five. The former England captain hit 133 from 128 balls with 16 fours as Essex rattled up their highest total in the competition this season. It was his 12th one-day century and took him past 1,000 runs for the season in all competitions, 636 of them in this competition.
Ten Doeschate joined Cook in the middle at 173 for three in the 29th over before Cook drove Harry Gurney for four to bring up his century off 95 balls.
Ten Doeschate took four successive boundaries off Mullaney as he raced to 50 off 40 deliveries but Cook fell shortly after, top-edging Patel, and Chris Read claimed the catch running back. Ten Doeschate then took three sixes off the penultimate over from Gurney and brought up his own century off 64 balls to take Essex past 350.
Nottinghamshire started positively but three wickets from Jamie Porter left them on 80 for three in the 10th over. After a period of consolidation, Taylor kick-started the innings with a chipped six over long-on off Neil Wagner. He brought up his half-century from 39 balls with five fours and that six but when he had reached 62, he called for a sharp single from the bowler’s end, finished up at the same end as Patel and Porter’s throw was gathered by Simon Harmer to complete a simple run-out.
Patel reached his 50 from 60 balls soon afterwards and then Mullaney took over. He cleared the ropes with a straight drive off Harmer and then hit four fours in the spinner’s next over on the way to his highest 50-over score as he and Patel took Nottinghamshire to a superb victory.
Sergey Kovalev is convinced he did enough to defeat Andre Ward when they met for the unified light heavyweight championship in the autumn but this time he is determined to sprint through the tape.
The Russian nicknamed Krusher dumped Ward to the canvas early on and dominated the first half of their November fight but he faded just enough to allow the Olympic champion from Oakland to escape with a narrow, controversial unanimous decision. All three judges scored it 114-113 for Ward.
The rare match-up between two undefeated champions in their prime somehow managed to live up to the billing, offering fans everything but a definitive conclusion. So they meet again on Saturday night in Las Vegas as Kovalev tries to wrest back the WBA, WBO and IBF titles he surrendered in his first professional setback.
It is the best fight that can be made in boxing today: Ward and Kovalev enter at No1 and No2, respectively, in Ring magazine’s pound-for-pound ratings. And there is antipathy between the fighters and their promoters that has lent further intrigue to the proceedings.
“I just have one goal, to beat Andre Ward and beat all the shit from him because he doesn’t deserve the belt and the status of a champion,” Kovalev said. “I want to put him back in his place.”
The 34-year-old (30-1-1, 26 KOs) believes he overtrained for the first fight, describing the doomed combination of three-a-day workouts and daily half-marathons with a conditioning coach who was afraid to tell him to dial it back. This time he has enlisted a new strength coach in Aleksandr Mikhailovich, whose training philosophy is said to centre around his robust work with biathletes.
“They seem to work well together,” Kovalev’s trainer, John David Jackson, said this week. “If Mikhailovich did his job, then Sergey will be fine. For the first fight Sergey was running 14 miles a day and I asked him why. I told him he was going to wear his legs out. He is still running but not nearly as much. He is saving himself this time around.”
Ward (31-0, 15 KOs), a longtime champion at 168lbs who all but cleaned out the division, went 114-5 in an extraordinary amateur career that culminated with a gold medal at the Athens Games, which remains the last time an American has topped the podium in men’s boxing. The last time he lost a fight was against John Revish at the 1997 National Silver Gloves tournament in Baton Rouge when he was 13.
“Tactically I obviously want to have a better start and I’m going to have a better start,” the 33-year-old American said. “That’s really what got me in my hole: the start. I’m sure he’s made some adjustments and he’s going to come harder but I’m ready. I’ve done everything I’m supposed to do. When you prepare the way you’re supposed to, and all the boxes are checked, it’s time to go to work.”
Ward, who is promoted by Jay Z’s nascent Roc Nation Sports, has been guaranteed a minimum purse of $6m. Kovalev’s contract has yet to be filed with the Nevada Athletic Commission but it’s said he is due a 75% share of the overall take for Main Events, his longtime promoter, in lieu of a base purse. That means his compensation is in direct proportion with ticket sales and pay-per-view revenue, which many believe will be compromised by Wednesday’s headline-grabbing announcement of the August novelty match between Floyd Mayweather Jr and Conor McGregor.
That likely explains why Kovalev stormed off stage before the end of Thursday’s final press conference, declining to participate in interviews and the traditional stare-down photoshoot. His frustration is understandable, but there’s no doubt a reversal of November’s cruel result would offer swift consolation.
At this point in the rugby cycle teams from all over the world have a rare chance to work on their strength in depth but also to brandish it. This weekend the World Rugby Under-20 Championship reaches its climax in Georgia, while the best of British and Irish lock horns with the Maori, broadly analogous to a New Zealand second or third team. Next weekend the Lions take on the All Blacks themselves.
Meanwhile, on a third continent, what is left of England, with 30 of their best players unavailable, are wound up in a special bubble preparing to clinch a two-Test series against Argentina, who will be there again in two years’ time when the pool stages of the World Cup get under way. Having blooded 10 new caps in a remarkable 38-34 win last Saturday in San Juan, the convoy moves directly east across the country to Santa Fe.
“While the eyes of the rugby world aren’t on us right now, I think that’s a good thing,” says Dylan Hartley, England’s captain, who will move into third place on England’s list of caps winners. “Our eyes are on us and we are continually developing and trying to get better. I think English rugby is in a very strong place at the moment.”
He may think the eyes of the rugby world are not on him but the benefits of a terrestrial showcase meant that 1.8 million viewers watched the exhilarating scenes from San Juan last Saturday – versus the 600,000 who saw the Lions. And in Santa Fe there is little sign of a drop-off in interest. Hartley and Eddie Jones joined their equivalents from Argentina and a few other local dignitaries at a top-table press conference on Thursday night in front of an audience of hundreds.
Jones is relishing the old-school feel of this tour of the provinces. “It is good to see Argentina bring rugby to the regional centres. One of the unfortunate things of professional rugby is that that has died out in a lot of other countries, because money drives the game. This tour has brought a bit of that back.”
Argentina are thriving on the back of their closer assimilation into the fabric of world rugby, even if they are on a horrible run of 10 defeats from their last 12 games. The blend of speed and furious power with which they play the game will surely develop into something special, possibly the equal of their vintages who finished in the top four at two of the last three World Cups. Which should give those in their pool pause for thought, at least.
If England are not at full strength here, neither are Argentina, who continue to exclude those playing overseas. “We are expecting our European players to return [by the time of the World Cup],” says Daniel Hourcade, Argentina’s coach. “As much as it is a political decision, it is also a rugby one. It’s important that they come back and play in Super Rugby, because that’s what we’re aiming for.”
England squad members can barely move from A to B without being asked about the prospect of Argentina hosting a Lions tour or a World Cup, either of which, incidentally, the country would be perfect for. But, for now, it is England who are in town, albeit this curious but vital blend of youth and exuberance with cool experience.
Last Saturday’s game was one for the ages, Argentina taking the initiative with a pace that Jones described as 10% higher than anything they encountered in the Six Nations. Jones was delighted with the test it posed his youngsters – and how they came through it – but he expects a different one again on Saturday, the dry, high heat of San Juan morphing into the close and sticky Santa Fe, nestled low among the slow tributaries of the Parana river.
“I think it might be a bit of a slugathon,” says Jones. “It is very rare that you get two games the same. It is like drinking a beer. The first beer never tastes the same as the second beer, and the third beer never tastes the same as the second one. Rugby is the same. The second game is generally never like the first game. If the first has been open the second has been tighter, so we are prepared for both.”
The return of Chris Robshaw will help with that flexibility, and the new cap Sam Underhill ought to add a level of physicality, albeit of the 20-year-old variety, which these days need not mean the side is compromised. In the backs, Piers Francis comes in at inside-centre for his first start. Having been rejected by English rugby in his teens, he has been schooled in New Zealand and returns quite the complete player.
England and New Zealand, the coming together everyone wants to see. For now, across various continents, they continue their development towards the 2019 World Cup. This tour has increased Jones’s pool of blooded players to more than 60; a second win in Argentina would leave him as satisfied with where England are as he could possibly have hoped to be.
Former two-times UFC welterweight champion Matt Hughes was airlifted to a medical facility on Friday after the truck he was driving collided with a moving train around 70 miles northeast of St Louis, an Illinois state police spokesperson told the Guardian.
Hughes, 43, was traveling in a pickup truck eastbound on Beelers Trail in Illinois’s Montgomery County approaching a railroad grade crossing marked with crossbuck signs at around 10:45am when he crossed the tracks directly in front of an oncoming train and was struck on the passenger side, officers said.
Police said Hughes was “seriously injured” and transported to a Springfield hospital by an Arch Air Medical Services helicopter ambulance.
UFC president Dana White told ESPN that he’s been in contact with Hughes’ family, who are traveling to the facility where the Illinois native was taken.
“Apparently he has head trauma,” White told the network. “His family is traveling to him now.”
The Illinois state police’s traffic reconstruction unit was still investigating the crash on Friday afternoon. Officials said no further information was available.
Our thoughts are with Matt Hughes and his family. pic.twitter.com/TF6BaHSa85
Hughes had two as stints the organization’s welterweight champion from 2001 through 2006, during which time he was considered among the best pound-for-pound fighters in mixed martial arts.
He was inducted to the UFC’s Hall of Fame in 2010 and formally retired from competition three years later, though he was reportedly mulling a comeback as recently as this year.
Magnus Carlsen’s career is in crisis and this week Norway’s 26-year-old world champion has been on the brink of losing the No1 ranking he has held without a break for almost six years.
Carlsen was in joint last place in the Altibox Norway elite event at Stavanger, with a pack of eager rivals within one game of usurping his No1 position, but he was saved, at least for the moment, when his old rival, Russia’s Sergey Karjakin, blundered a drawn position in Thursday’s penultimate round to give the beleaguered champion a windfall point. Carlsen then drew with India’s Vishy Anand in Friday’s ninth and final round to total 4/9 in next to last place with just a solitary win, six draws and two defeats.
After seven of the nine rounds Carlsen had not won a game, giving a drab performance and losing twice to major rivals. Levon Aronian beat him in a truly brilliant game with a sophisticated version of the ancient Greek Gift bishop sacrifice, then Russia’s former champion Vlad Kramnik also saw further than Carlsen in a tactical sequence.
Carlsen has often said he values being top of the rankings even more than his official world crown and at his zenith in July 2014 his rating was an all-time record of 2882, 50 points ahead of his nearest rival. Since then he has suffered some losses to weaker players as well as an increased ratio of draws.
His rating gradually dropped some 70 points and he retains the No1 spot only due to his earlier achievements. Taken alone, his 2017 results would put him outside the top 10. The live ratings after his win on Thursday show him at 2823 with five rivals, including the rampant Aronian, above 2800 and thus within striking distance.
Final scores from Stavanger were Levon Aronian (Armenia) 6/9, Hikaru Nakamura (US) and Vlad Kramnik (Russia) 5, Wesley So and Fabiano Caruana (both US) and Anish Giri (Netherlands) 4.5, Magnus Carlsen (Norway), Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (France) and Vishy Anand (India) 4, Sergey Karjakin (Russia) 3.5.
Exactly why Carlsen, who was widely expected to prove himself alongside Bobby Fischer and Garry Kasparov as one of the greatest world champions, is having such a prolonged slump in form is unclear. A grandmaster in his mid-20s is normally near his playing peak, because his ambition, creative energy and physical stamina for long games are all in good shape.
Carlsen’s special skill used to be to take on a long endgame with little or no advantage and grind the opponent down by incessant pressure. His opponents have got wise to that and more of his games now feature level positions where his well-prepared rival halves easily.
Kasparov thinks Carlsen’s play has stagnated and that his avoidance of mainstream opening theory blunts his edge. He spent weeks preparing for Stavanger, yet his repertoire included tame Italian openings. In contrast Aronian, who beat Carlsen brilliantly and won the tournament, came without a coach to help him prepare. The Armenian explained: “It is important to be responsible for your own preparation and to take it more seriously. You know, when there is no one to expect help from, you will be working more concentrated and determined.”
Aronian’s win from Carlsen was a remarkable mix of two classical tactical themes. He sacrificed first a pawn, then rook for bishop, to put the world champion’s queen in danger of being trapped. The pawn was a rook pawn, whereas in the Poisoned Pawn Sicilian, where Boris Spassky once famously beat Bobby Fischer, White gambits the b2 pawn.
Trying to rescue his queen, Carlsen left his king short of defenders and allowed a version of the Greek Gift bishop sacrifice. There were still mistakes on both sides until Aronian broke through to win one of the most original games of recent years.
The game showed that 11 a3! was a poisoned pawn, so Black’s safest was 11...Bd6 when White has just a small edge. Then 14...Ne4 set up the Greek Gift, where Aronian planned to meet 18...Kg6 by 19 Qg4 f5 20 Qg3 Kf6 21 d5! winning. As played, 25 Qa7?! (Qb7) gave Carlsen a possible escape by Nf6! but the world champion missed both that and 31...Rf8! which would have held on. These are small blemishes, though, in a classic victory.
Levon Aronian v Magnus Carlsen
1 d4 d5 2 c4 c6 3 Nf3 Nf6 4 Nc3 e6 5 e3 a6 6 b3 Bb4 7 Bd2 Nbd7 8 Bd3 O-O 9 O-O Qe7 10 Bc2! Rd8 11 a3! Bxa3?! 12 Rxa3! Qxa3 13 c5 b6 14 b4 Ne4?! 15 Nxe4 dxe4 16 Bxe4 Rb8 17 Bxh7+! Kxh7 18 Ng5+ Kg8 19 Qh5 Nf6 20 Qxf7+ Kh8 21 Qc7 Bd7 22 Nf7+ Kh7 23 Nxd8 Rc8 24 Qxb6 Nd5 25 Qa7 Rxd8 26 e4 Qd3? 27 exd5 Qxd2 28 Qc7! Qg5 29 dxc6?! Bc8 30 h3 Qd5 31 Rd1 e5? 32 Rd3 exd4 33 Qe7 Bf5 34 Rg3 Bg6 35 Qh4+ 1-0
3499 1 Rxg8+! Resigns. If 1...Kxg8 2 Rg4 and White’s queen easily defeats Black’s rook and bishop. If 1...Qxg8 2 Qf6! Bc5 3 Rg4 Qh7 4 d6 (threat 5 Qe7 mate) Re8 5 d7 wins.
Manchester United are watching the Cristiano Ronaldo show with renewed interest after the Real Madrid striker made it plain he is “outraged” at what he feels is unfair treatment by tax authorities and is now determined to leave Spain.
The 32-year-old feels he is being singled out for disproportionate treatment after prosecutors accused him of defrauding the authorities of €14.7m. A source close to the player claims the “outraged” Portugal international “feels great indignation” following the public speculation about his tax affairs and a sense of “injustice” at the allegations – which he contests – and he has made a decision to leave the country.
Ronaldo, who signed a new five-year contract in November, has made no secret of his affection for United – the club he left to join Madrid in 2009 after six years at Old Trafford – and José Mourinho, who shares the same super agent Jorge Mendes, would relish his return as he seeks to build a team capable of a title challenge and a successful campaign in the Champions League.
United remain one of the clubs with the financial muscle to offer a competitive package for Ronaldo – they are predicting record revenues of up to £570m this year – and his return would be a dream commercial move.
He has a €1bn (£880m) release clause in his current Madrid deal and United – now without Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s wages on the books and the potential to lose Wayne Rooney’s financial burden soon – would be able to meet Ronaldo’s wage demands of around £400,000 a week. Paris Saint-Germain could match United’s offer but the Old Trafford move presents Ronaldo with his fairytale moment and a far grander stage on which to perform. The potential availability of one of the world’s most marketable players will also naturally alert the Chinese Super League clubs.
Reports that Ronaldo wanted to leave Real were sparked on Friday in the Portuguese newspaper A Bola. It claimed his decision was “irreversible” and that he has already told his Madrid team-mates that he wants to leave.
The root of Ronaldo’s anger stems from Spanish prosecutors’ lawsuit against the player, accusing him of defrauding tax authorities of €14.7m by hiding his image rights income between 2011 and 2014. Ronaldo has categorically denied any wrongdoing. Real backed that assertion, saying they were confident the Portuguese forward had acted legally.
Following the tax allegations, Ronaldo posted a picture of himself with his fingers to his lips on Instagram with the caption: “Sometimes the best answer it’s to be quiet.”
Earlier this week Ronaldo’s agency Gestifute released a statement which read: “There is no tax evasion scheme ... There has never been any hiding nor any intention to hide anything.”
Ronaldo’s frustrations at his treatment come after leading Real to three Champions League titles, scoring twice in last month’s final against Juventus in Cardiff as they became the first club to retain the trophy. He also became only the second player to score in three different finals and remains the competition’s record goalscorer with 105.
Barcelona’s Lionel Messi took a similar stance in threatening to quit Spain in 2014, also claiming he had been singled out for special treatment, when he was accused of concealing €4.1m from the authorities. The Argentina international was found guilty and subsequently lost an appeal against a 21-month prison sentence – under Spanish law sentences under two years are usually suspended – and a €2.1m (£1.8m) fine.
The tragic scenario attached to one of Augusta National’s founding fathers, Clifford Roberts, may be well known but the similarly grim circumstances which form a backdrop to Erin Hills have barely featured in the buildup to the US Open. For obvious reasons, perhaps; this tale of money problems, homicide and a lengthy jail term is hardly in keeping with an upbeat major championship narrative.
Imagery of Roberts remains a constant feature during any Masters week. In September 1977, aged 83 and a year after standing down as the long-term Augusta chairman, he committed suicide on the very premises he played such a major part in establishing.
The scenario around Steve Trattner is even more troublesome because it involves others and criminality. As Erin Hills stages its first major this week, Trattner has watched via television in a nearby jail. He is serving a 35-year sentence for the murder of his wife. And, make no mistake, from the Waupun Correctional Institution, Trattner is observing every shot. “I’m going to be watching every minute of the tournament,” he said in a recent interview with Sports Illustrated. “For so many years, that place was my home away from home.”
Trattner, a former software engineer, clearly had an architect’s eye. While living a seemingly unremarkable life on the outskirts of Milwaukee, married and soon to be a father of two, he had a dream to build a public golf course. Such a concept is fanciful without identifying appropriate land; in itself an infamously tricky business. But Trattner did it, just as he convinced multi-millionaire Bob Lang to fund the project.
“Only two people, Bob Lang and I, experienced the day-to-day transformation of the property,” explained Trattner. “All the ups and downs, challenges, hundreds of conversations about tweaks.”
The $2.5m land deal was pieced together in 1999 and at the last minute, with the farmer who owned what is now known as Erin Hills on the verge of removing the land from the market. Trattner became project manager on a salary of $2,000 a month. “I would have done it for free,” he claimed. He was fulfilling a long-term dream.
By 2005, a year before the facility opened, Trattner was concerned by Lang’s increased spending on the golf course. The former’s marriage to Sin Lam was also in trouble owing, mainly, to Trattner’s addiction-like approach to Erin Hills. “I was going to be the general manager and that would have been heaven for me,” he later said.
The upshot instead was altogether different. After a domestic dispute on 3 January 2006 – Lam was intending on filing for divorce – court papers reveal Trattner threw his wife against a cabinet, banged her head against the floor and performed strangulation. He covered his wife with a blanket, dragged her into the living room and went to bed before taking his children to school the following morning as if everything was normal. That afternoon – after meetings at Erin Hills – Trattner called police, sleeping pills having been placed at Lam’s side to imply suicide.
Trattner went on to plead guilty to first-degree reckless homicide. He is currently in the midst of an appeal, on the basis he was not properly advised or represented during courtroom hearings. Trattner now claims self defence was key to his actions.
“If you’re a judge, sitting up there with this guy sitting in front of you, and you see his wife who was supposedly strangled to death for no reason, you’re not going to care about some golf course that nobody knows about,” admits Lew Wasserman, Trattner’s lawyer.
“Is this a case of perfect self-defence? Maybe not. But that’s not the issue. We’re not dealing with a jury’s verdict. We’re dealing with whether he was properly advised to enter a plea for first-degree reckless homicide.
“It’s sadly ironic because without Steven Trattner’s efforts, there wouldn’t be an Erin Hills.”
Having become more smitten with the dream than was healthy, Lang found himself at the bottom of a fiscal hole. Spending had spiralled out of control. The businessman, who attended this week’s tournament, sold the site in 2009, before the US Open dream became reality. “I had a come-to-Jesus with myself,” he said. “I had no choice. I had to sell.” The price was listed at $10m, less than half what Lang reckons he had spent.
On Wednesday, the United States Golf Association hosted its annual pre-event media conference. “The golf course is a championship venue that will make history,” said the USGA president, Diana Murphy. “And we also want to say thank you to its owner Andy Ziegler and congratulations.” Ziegler stood up, waved and took recognition from the floor.
During correspondence with Sports Illustrated writers, Trattner expresses regret over Lang’s financial blow. “At times I definitely wish I never would’ve pursued and started Erin Hills,” he said. “I can’t help but feel guilty and awful for how it devastated Bob and his family.”
It is the US Open storyline that will not feature in any guidebooks. That does not prevent it from being both fascinating and horribly sad; any golfer falling agonisingly short at this major is not the key component in a tragedy.
Mike Tyson has an interesting new book out called Iron Ambition. In it he talks about his violent childhood, explores his relationship with his late coach, the great Cus D’Amato, and kicks the whole thing off with a passage about wandering around his old Brooklyn neighbourhood, marvelling at the gentrification, tourists and, above all, the sight of people taking selfies all over the place.
Like many other grouchy middle-aged men Mike hasn’t, you sense, fully engaged with the selfie craze. “Imagine trying to do that with the people I was hanging out with in Times Square,” he writes. “‘Hey man, let’s take a selfie!’ Motherfuckers would start beating on you and leave you in a coma in the street.” We can never go back, of course. But in many ways, happier, wiser times.
This is not, yet, the most famous Tyson quote. That comes instead from his time rampaging around the heavyweight division when he was asked by a room of journalists about an opponent’s plans to dance inside, hit and run and generally pick him off. “Everyone has a plan,” came the reply. “Until they get punched in the mouth.”
It is a cool quote, albeit perhaps a little misunderstood, with an assumption among those who perhaps didn’t see Tyson in his prime that saying this marks him out as a force of untutored aggression, all front-foot brutality. Read the book and you realise the phrase has strong echoes of D’Amato, a brilliant strategist who talked first of all about not getting hit, and whose triumph was to turn Tyson into a counterpunching technician, saving his most ferocious attacks for when he’d just slipped your best shot.
What Mike and Cus were saying was: you may have a plan but ours is better. Just as all trainers and indeed football managers work relentlessly on defence, the flaws in their opponents’ attack and disrupting first of all what’s coming back at them.
Can you feel it yet? Can you feel José Mourinho’s hard, flat, insolent gaze glaring out between these words? This week another fascinating set of quotes has been doing the rounds, this time from Mourinho, extracted from remarks he made at a Lisbon university about his preparations for the Europa League final against Ajax. These were picked up by the newspaper Tribuna Expresso and translated by the football analyst Tiago Estêvão. Again the talk was about strategy and, above all, about getting your retaliation in first.
The first striking thing is the level of detail in Mourinho’s prep for Ajax, the way he really does visualise the game in advance, reaching his horrible hands through his opponent’s rib cage and gouging his nails into the vital organs.
The second striking thing was the response on social media to this insight, reflecting a certain acerbic reaction to Mourinho’s first season at Manchester United, the tendency to hold a perfumed handkerchief to the nose, to splutter about “anti-football”, to suggest that setting out a team defensively is in some way cynical or disrespectful. And beyond this, the idea a club like United should instead be imposing its own freewheeling, tousle-haired will, leaving the washing-up, romping about like cosseted puppies and all the rest.
This still feels a bit baffling to the neutral. Looking at Mourinho’s notes it is hard to see anything but complete respect for his opponent and indeed for his sport. He’s not mucking about here. Mourinho watched eight Ajax matches before Stockholm. He had a clear plan, a set of counter measures that worked so well that with 10 minutes gone he was already telling Rui Faria “we have them in our pockets”.
The first stage of this was to “create instability” by hustling Matthijs de Ligt, Ajax’s usual conduit from the back, forcing Davinson Sánchez to take the ball forward instead. Sánchez is hugely talented and shut Marcus Rashford down on the night but he’s not as good on the ball as his partner. So in one move a strength became a weakness.
Carrying the ball forward, Sánchez looked up and found stage two: United matched Ajax’s midfield man for man, leaving no real option but to pass long. Which he did. By the end Sánchez had made 35 more passes than De Ligt, including nine long balls, and every part of the Ajax machine had been very slightly jiggered out of place. Everybody has a plan – until they get hustled into a series of unplanned movements by a master of the pre-emptive smothering tweak.
Mourinho also had his defence under strict orders. Chris Smalling, who can – let’s face it – at times look like he’s playing in a pair of oversized square-toed cow-poke boots, was told to pass long every time, to make no attempt to link with his midfield, thereby negating Ajax’s powerful high press.
They followed the drill. United’s back four played 25 long balls. Smalling and Daley Blind didn’t pass once to Paul Pogba. A team of stars man-marked a 17-year-old novice defender. And United won a European final at a guarded canter by the horribly subversive pragmatism of not giving the ball to their £90m record signing. “For me beautiful is not giving our opponents what they want,” Mourinho sneered in Lisbon. I wasn’t there but, let’s face it, he sneered it, maybe even cackled it. And he’s right. This is in its own way deeply beautiful.
So why the snorts of unhappiness? Clearly defensive football isn’t everyone’s idea of fun. It doesn’t look good on the telly. Pogba’s willingness to fit the plan is admirable but his own extreme talents may get more of an airing elsewhere. Similarly Mourinho’s love of the system, his ability to wrench out an opponent’s circuit boards, have seen his greatest triumphs arrive at clubs just below the top tier, turning a B-list European power into a snarling, spitting, brilliantly obstructive champion.
Beyond this it is hard to avoid the idea that people make the mistake of conflating Mourinho’s tactics with his toxic and infuriating public persona: the sneakiness, the tedious jibes, the sight of him stalking the touchline haggardly in baggy grey shell suit trousers with the look of a man dragged from his static caravan in the wee hours and forced to walk four miles down the hard shoulder in search of a canister of butane gas, only to find he’s forgotten his wallet, lost one of his flip-flops in a gorse bush and is being taunted by a busload of primary school children.
For all that, the notion this is somehow beneath Manchester United seems a bit odd. The later Sir Alex Ferguson teams were hardly buccaneering free spirits swinging from the hip. Chewing through a third manager in three years, United have now won two Cups. This feels like progress, an ice pick lodged in the cliff face.
Mourinho may be a counterpuncher. He may be Floyd Mayweather rather than Roberto Durán. But even in a nation where an academic, systems-based approach has so often been jeeringly dismissed, the obsession with team, with winning by first of all preventing defeat, has its own kind of refined mathematics, even its own kind of poetry.
Aidy Boothroyd admitted his England Under-21 side were rescued from a disastrous defeat in their opening match of the European Championship by “super” goalkeeper Jordan Pickford as the new £30m Everton signing’s penalty save nine minutes from time secured a point against the holders, Sweden.
Ben Chilwell’s reckless challenge on Linus Wahlqvist looked like condemning England to a defeat that would have left their hopes of reaching the semi-finals hanging by a thread, only for Pickford to deny the same player from the spot with an excellent right-hand save.
It ensured England will go into their second match against Slovakia on Monday knowing there is all still to play for, although Boothroyd acknowledged they will need to improve drastically if they are to end a desperate record of failing to get out of their group at the last three tournaments.
“It was a fair result in the end and we can certainly play better than we did,” he said. “Sweden gave us problems which we dealt with. It was disappointing to concede a penalty – I’m not sure it was – but it was given, so it was. Of course we have our super goalkeeper that keeps penalties out.”
Pickford, who became the third most expensive goalkeeper in history on Thursday, had little to do in the first half as England made a decent start but Sweden gradually imposed themselves on the match and could have gone ahead when Pawel Cibicki’s curling effort from just outside the box cannoned back off the crossbar.
Chilwell also struck the woodwork from long range via a heavily deflected effort soon afterwards but could have little complaint about the penalty award after diving in when there appeared to be little danger.
Wahlqvist’s penalty was poorly struck but Pickford, after his initial stop, was on hand again to save the substitute Carlos Strandberg’s weak follow-up and enable England to hang on to the draw.
“I waited longer and held my ground and got to the penalty; that’s what you do,” the goalkeeper said.
“Sweden killed our tempo a bit, they had a game plan to let us have the ball at the back and now we move on to Monday. The main thing is not to lose the game. The first game is always tight and we came away with a draw. It’s down to us to win the next two.”
That will be no easy task despite Slovakia’s and Poland’s poor records at this tournament, with only the Group A winners guaranteed a place in the last four in the newly expanded format of 12 teams. Watched by the senior team manager, Gareth Southgate, and the Football Association chairman, Greg Clarke, England came into the game with the unwanted record of having conceded more goals at these finals than any other nation.
More than 5,000 Sweden supporters made the atmosphere in Kielce feel more like Stockholm than southern Poland, although at first it seemed as if this was England’s game to win. Tammy Abraham was unlucky to see his acrobatic effort just before half-time miss the target after an excellent flick-on from Alfie Mawson following a throw-in.
Boothroyd’s side also made a strong start after the break but were hampered by a disappointing end product from both flanks, with the Everton right-back Mason Holgate culpable at times. Lewis Baker struggled to make an impact from his No10 role as Nathaniel Chalobah and the captain, James Ward-Prowse, were frequently overrun in midfield and it seemed almost inevitable Sweden would secure victory as they poured forward as the clock ticked down.
Strandberg was particularly dangerous on the break and only a last-ditch challenge from Holgate prevented him from having a one-on-one with Pickford just before the penalty was conceded.
Boothroyd was philosophical about his side’s chances of progressing but, having seen Pickford complete his move to Goodison Park while away on international duty, admitted his admiration for the way the 23-year-old has handled the pressure.
“He has had quite a week,” he said. “Most people would struggle to deal with what’s happened and have some sort of dip but, touch wood, he doesn’t. I thought he was excellent.
“We want to qualify for the semi-finals and in order to do that we have to win games but it’s also really important we didn’t lose,” added Boothroyd.
“We’ll look back at it and say it’s a defining moment, I hope. It is important when we don’t play well we dig in and make sure we don’t get beaten.
“I’m not satisfied because I want to win every game but, when you get to this level, you have to be realistic that you can’t win every single game. What’s important is you keep focused and don’t get beaten and make sure you qualify.”
The card game bridge is hardly the most physically strenuous of activities. But according to a judgment by one of the European court of justice’s most senior lawyers, the game should be considered a sport – for tax purposes at least.
The recommendation is the latest salvo in a longrunning legal case brought by the English Bridge Union (EBU), which argues that entry fees for its tournaments should be exempt from VAT, as is the case with all activities classed as sport.
The EBU lost its initial claim against HM Revenue and Customs, which says sports should have a significant element of physical activity. But the EBU appealed to the upper tax tribunal, which referred the case to European judges.
The player-funded organisation maintains that preferential tax treatment for sport was intended to benefit activities that provide either physical or mental health benefits to regular participants. It argues that bridge – a game played by four players in two competing partnerships – helps stimulate the mind, particularly in older people.
On Thursday the advocate general Maciej Szpunar argued that sport should be understood as something that involved the “training of mental or physical fitness in a way that is generally beneficial to the health and wellbeing of citizens”, and recommended that bridge be exempted from VAT in the UK.
He also noted that the International Olympic Committee was among organisations that “expressly include mental sports or endorse activities without a physical element”, having classified bridge as a sport in 1998.
The case will be reviewed by ECJ judgesin the autumn. If they uphold Szpunar’s recommendation, the EBU will no longer have to pay VAT and may be eligible for a rebate. While the recommendation is not binding, judges usually follow the advice of advocate generals.
“This will have huge benefits as it will allow us to invest further in the game, and make entries to EBU competitions cheaper, thus allowing more people to enjoy playing bridge, and enabling more to experience the social and mental benefits that playing bridge offers,” the EBU said in a statement.
Jeremy Dhondy, the EBU’s chairman, said the finding was “a vindication of our view that bridge should be regarded as a sport with all the advantages that brings both for bridge as a game and also for our members and prospective members”.
“We want our game to play its full part as an activity to promote social inclusion and welcome the judgment of the European court,” he added.
Different countries have different opinions on whether bridge is a sport. In Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France and it is classed as a sport for tax purposes, but in Ireland and Sweden it is not.
The 2011 Charities Act adopted a definition of sport as “activities which promote health involving physical or mental health or exertion”, which specifically included “mind sports”.
However, in 2015 the high court ruled that bridge was not a sport eligible for lottery funding, with lawyers acting for Sport England telling the court that the game was no more a sport than “sitting at home reading a book”.
On Wednesday it was announced the finest boxer of his generation, unbeaten in 49 paying fights and 26 world championship contests with titles in five weight classes, will fight a scheduled 12-round boxing match against an opponent with no professional boxing experience. It doesn’t take an expert to know how this one will play out.
But we groundlings love a sideshow and always have, making us susceptible to promotional stunts like these for as as long as anyone can remember. There was Muhammad Ali’s risible fight with the Japanese pro wrestler Antonio Inoki in 1976, widely regarded as the most embarrassing moment of the Greatest’s career. There were Jesse Owens’ lamentable match races against thoroughbred horses, a humiliating comedown for the Olympic hero who had stared down Hitler in Berlin. There was the much-ballyhooed 150m race between Donovan Bailey and Michael Johnson at Toronto’s SkyDome to determine the title of world’s fastest man, a made-for-TV event that went down 20 years ago this month.
Occasionally, one-offs have positive consequences, like the Battle of the Sexes between Billie Jean King and Bobby Riggs in 1973, which altered the perception of women’s sports in many doubters’ eyes. But far more often they leave their participants debased unless they’re forgotten altogether: George Foreman, still nursing the psychological wounds of Zaire, taking on five hopelessly shopworn opponents in one night in 1975. Or the cringeworthy one-on-one match at the Trump Taj Mahal between NBA greats Kareem Abdul-Jabbar and Julius Erving, retired quadragenarians both, that aired on pay-per-view for $19.95 a pop.
Floyd Mayweather and Conor McGregor are hardly the first to prey on PT Barnum’s target market, but they’re certain to scale the tried-and-true formula to dizzying profits that would have left the old carnival barker doubled over in laughter. Showtime boxing czar Stephen Espinoza’s straight-faced assessment on Wednesday night offered an understated taste of the bluster to come: “We’ve never seen a combat sports event, or even a sporting event, of this magnitude.”
Over the next 10 weeks, the combined promotional heft of Mayweather Promotions and the Ultimate Fighting Championship will attempt to seduce you into believing the outcome is anything but the foregone conclusion it is. Hell, some of our most visible thought leaders are already biting. You’ll hear plenty about Floyd’s age. You’ll hear about his struggles with left-handed opponents and the strides McGregor has made with his boxing. Later there will be race-baiting on both sides, the same cynical tactics that lifted Jack Johnson v James J Jeffries and Larry Holmes v Gerry Cooney and Mike Tyson v Peter McNeeley to record-breaking profits.
That’s the thing with one-offs: everyone involved knows they only need to fool the customer once. It’s not bad for boxing. It’s not bad for MMA. It’s not anything except a quick-strike money grab with no enduring significance. It’s an exciting fight until it actually starts and it will be forgotten the minute it’s over, unworthy of a chapter in either man’s memoirs.
No amount of salesmanship, misdirection or promotional razzle-dazzle can alter the obvious: McGregor’s chances under the unified rules of boxing that will govern the 26 August meeting are so infinitesimal they’re hardly worth discussing. It’s simply unfathomable that a man with zero fights will defeat any elite boxer, let alone one of the greatest defensive technicians to ever take up the gloves. Just as Mayweather would stand no chance in a mixed martial arts match. Shame on the thirsty Nevada Athletic Commission for sanctioning this circus.
Hardened skeptics pooh-poohed Mayweather’s summit meeting with Manny Pacquiao for happening far past its sell-by date and were partially vindicated by a one-sided fight that left customers feeling let down and ripped off. That outrage almost feels quaint now. At least Floyd and Manny, in the anxious moments before the opening bell, were staring across the ring at the most decorated opponent either had ever been in with.
McGregor? There are 20-year-olds in boxing gyms right now that would light him up like a Christmas tree. That’s at least what’s suggested by the infamous footage of the Irishman’s sparring session last year with Chris van Heerden, a former welterweight belt-holder from South Africa. Sure, there’s reason to believe his clumsy, plodding approach could improve with a training camp devoted completely to boxing. But there’s simply no way he can catch up to the fistic aptitude of Mayweather, who’s been drilled in the mysteries of the sport since childhood. There’s no such thing as a crash course for a lifelong craft.
Remind yourself what Mayweather did to some of the greatest boxers of his era. We’re not even talking about the destruction of Diego Corrales, a fight where Mayweather entered an arguable underdog, before he surrendered his power by climbing in weight to chase the bigger money. Even late-period Floyd’s brittle hands didn’t keep him from making the likes of Juan Manuel Marquez and Canelo Alvarez appear as if they were stumbling around in the dark trying to find the light switch. If that lot couldn’t even find let alone hurt Mayweather, what hope does our Conor have?
Making this fight required the improbable reconciliation of warring interests. But Mayweather-McGregor was inevitable because whenever there’s enough money on the table, people find a way to make things happen. You can’t blame the fighters for taking the payday. The only reason it’s happening is because they don’t merely think you’re gullible enough to buy it. They’re certain of it.
On Saturday night, Andre Ward and Sergey Kovalev will meet in a rematch of their terrific unified light heavyweight title fight in November. It is, at least by one metric, the best fight that can be made today: Ward and Kovalev are rated the two best prizefighters in the world, pound for pound, by Ring magazine. As a genuine sports experience, it will be a hundred times better than Mayweather-McGregor and, especially after Wednesday’s announcement, is doomed to receive one-hundredth of the attention.
We’re poorer for that, but we get what we deserve.
Mino Raiola, the cheeky so and so, is insisting on inserting a £44m (€50m) clause into Gianluigi Donnarumma’s new contract. The 18-year-old was set to sign a £77,000-a-week deal at Milan but the infamous agent is not playing nice. The Mill isn’t one for telling Milan’s suits to do their job, but £44m sounds cheap for the next big thing, especially if Jordan Pickford costs £30m. The Sunderland goalkeeper is coughing for the Everton doctor, who has flown out to the England Under-21s camp in Poland.
On the red side of Merseyside, Liverpool have finally found some coin and are throwing it at Piotr Zielinski. Twenty-five million quid, to be exact, although that is well short of the Napoli midfielder’s £61m release clause. Tottenham are also said to be interested in the Polish international, just in case Barcelona swoop for Christian Eriksen.
Leicester City are set to offer Harry Maguire £80,000 a week in the hope it can convince him to leave Hull City, for a five-year contract worth more than £20m. That’s after paying a £17m transfer fee, too. Leicester were keen on West Brom’s Jonny Evans, and floated a £10m offer, but were apparently told to get lost.
We’re all set for another thrilling season in Scotland after Celtic had a £1.3m bid accepted for the only non-Celtic player to feature on the shortlist for PFA Scotland Player of the Year, Jonny Hayes. The Ireland international – who, fun fact, has 18 stitches in his arm after being bitten by a dog – helped Aberdeen to second place last season, scoring 11 times. Who knows, he might get a winner’s medal next year.
Emmanuel Adebayor is back, baby. That’s according to the Mirror, who report that Swansea are keen on doing some kind of swap deal for Bafétimbi Gomis. Why Swansea wouldn’t want to keep the Frenchman, who scored 21 goals in 33 games for Marseille last season on loan, is another story, but Adebayor is apparently keen for one more round of the Premier League. The Togo striker is with Istanbul Basaksehir and helped the Turkish club finish second to claim a Champions League spot. Tidy.
Remarkably, we’re staying with Basaksehir, who have another jewel in their ranks by the name of Cengiz Under. The 19-year-old signed from Altinordu for £600,000 only last summer but has since gone on to make his debut for Turkey, scoring twice in three appearances, including on Sunday against Kosovo. Manchester United and Tottenham are keen but Lille appear to be in the driving seat for a player now thought to be worth £13m. “Several clubs have been scouting Cengiz,” said Basaksehir’s vice-president, Mustafa Saral. “Lille have held direct talks with us, we have held talks with a few teams that have been mentioned. Our response has been the same, it is an honour to receive so much interest but we feel it is in his best interests to spend one more season here and then leave.”
Football and theatre can both range from farce to bloodbath. But the tepid response to Patrick Marber’s The Red Lion, set in a lower-league changing room, exposed the problem that plays on the subject tend to include too much football for people who like theatre and too much theatre for people who like football. More successful works have used fans as metaphors for tensions in society: Peter Terson’s Zigger Zagger and Sing Yer Heart Out for the Lads by Roy Williams.
So, it is sensible that two new football-related productions – consisting, with thematic neatness, of a one-act play lasting 45 minutes and a two-act show that blows the whistle after 90 – focus on what the sport means and does to places and people.
Helping fans fill the difficult summer weeks when there are no fixtures, Northampton Town’s Sixfields stadium is hosting The Twelfth Player, an immersive theatre piece based on a tour of the ground. And while the stands of Birmingham City and Aston Villa are empty, supporters can head to the Birmingham Repertory theatre for Stadium, a community play about the teams’ rivalry. (It is unclear whether the box office will agree not to seat fans of one team next to those of the other lot.)
Leaving in groups of four at five-minute intervals, audiences at Sixfields hold an iPod that directs them for three quarters of an hour around a circuit of the stands, changing rooms and pitch. Intricate video and sound designs create the illusion of ghosts in these locations. A ballerina twirls in front of the hot-dog counter. Decorously framed players soap their buttocks in the showers. So smart is the technology that the fictional characters seem to appear in old photographs on the stadium walls. Clarence, the club’s dragon mascot, makes digital and physical appearances.
Allusions to the history (promotions, demotions, near insolvency) of the club known as the Cobblers are interspersed with a drama, acted by local volunteers, featuring marital and other pressures in a family including a football-mad dad and a daughter who prefers ballet until a surprising aspect of her maternal family history is revealed. Created by directors Susanne Thomas and Sophie Jump for Seven Sisters Group, the piece tackles, firmly but fairly, the game’s history of sexism.
In Birmingham, Mohamed El Khatib’s Stadium is kicked off by the actor Dmitri Hatton who announces that the show will explore a city “divided in two” by football. This causes immediate unrest on the terraces – made worse when a third participant in hostilities, West Bromwich Albion, turns up in the second half.
Hatton acts as compere of a sort of a variety show in which all the acts are on the same theme. Gill and Paul tell a fantastic anecdote about a Villa fan at the back of a crowd accidentally losing his false teeth when chanting; the dentures are discovered underfoot, passed back up the stand and unnervingly reinserted. A blind West Bromwich Albion supporter describes the last goal he saw, 50 years ago, before losing his sight. There is a choreographed wheelchair football game between young supporters of the Villains and the Blues.
The show properly reflects the tendency of football to be a proxy for other concerns. On screens above the stage, Villa-supporting film-maker Tony Garnett and Professor Carl Chinn, historian of the city of Birmingham, have a spat about which of the local clubs is most proletarian. Another Brummie historian, Keith Dixon, joins in from the crowd.
El Khatib also honours the fact that – because most football fans were first taken to their matches by parents – games become entwined with memories of love and death. To the sound of Vivaldi’s Nisi Dominus, a West Brom fan swirls the massive banner that his mother stitched for him before she died 20 years ago; she didn’t like football, but she loved him.
Having spent many seasons in seat C67 in the west stand at Sixfields, my neutrality as a referee may be questioned by supporters from further up the M1, so let’s call it a high-scoring draw. The Twelfth Player is slick, witty, family-friendly and, since the team had a tendency last season only to play for 45 minutes, exactly the right length. Stadium is inclusive, intelligent, moving and contains a tremendous bagpipes joke. If fans of any club are as well entertained next season, they will be lucky.
Fiji-born winger Eto Nabuli, the one-time porter identified by rugby league legends Andrew Johns and Brad Fittler, will make his Wallabies debut on Saturday after being named in Michael Cheika’s starting XV to face Scotland at Sydney’s Allianz Stadium.
Fellow rugby league convert Karmichael Hunt has retained his place at inside centre after a promising debut in last Saturday’s win over Fiji, but regular captain and hooker Stephen Moore has again been overlooked. Nabuli’s inclusion, at the expense of two-try star and fellow Fijian flyer Henry Speight, is the only change to the run-on side.
Cheika is treating the fifth-ranked Scots with full respect, retaining 14 of the 15 starters who combined to notch five tries in the opening Test of the year. Tatafu Polota-Nau retains the No2 jumper, with Moore again expected to be picked on the bench when Cheika reveals his reserves on Friday.
Nabuli bagged seven tries in 13 games while playing for St George Illawarra in the NRL in 2013, after a chance meeting with Johns and Fittler in 2012 led to his code switch last year. He has played 16 games for the Queensland Reds, with Cheika first picking the 28-year-old in a Wallabies training squad last season before the England series without using him in a Test.
Star Scottish lock Jonny Gray returns in one of eight changes to the visitors’ starting side for the match in Sydney. The Scots will field an entirely new front row and back three to those that started in last weekend’s 34-13 victory over Italy in Singapore.
Gray’s inclusion is the most significant change in a strengthened team. Anticipating a high-tempo game with lots of ball movement from the Wallabies, Scotland coach Gregor Townsend said the 23-year-old’s defence would be critical at Allianz Stadium.
A controversial omission from the British and Irish Lions’ tour of New Zealand, Gray is famous for attempting 85 tackles in one Six Nations campaign – and missing just one. Townsend admits he deliberately kept Gray fresh for the Wallabies, who ran in five tries in their season-opening 34-12 win over Fiji last Saturday in Melbourne.
“We’ve managed him for a reason to make sure he’s ready to go for this game,” Townsend said on Thursday. “He’s been a key player for Scotland the last two or three seasons. He’s in great form. He can’t wait to play.”
Townsend said he always planned to field a vastly different line-up against the Wallabies. “We were always keen on this tour [to ensure] that players who were close to selection got an opportunity,” he said. “A few of them got an opportunity last week and some do this week.
“When you put a squad together, firstly you’re putting together a team that you believe can win the game. On a tour, there’s other considerations. You want to see which players are up for Test level and we want to give them the opportunity. It’s obviously after them after that.”
Wallabies: Israel Folau, Dane Haylett-Petty, Tevita Kuridrani, Karmichael Hunt, Eto Nabuli, Bernard Foley, Will Genia, Scott Higginbotham, Michael Hooper (capt), Ned Hanigan, Adam Coleman, Sam Carter, Allan Alaalatoa, Tatafu Polota-Nau, Tom Roberston. Reserves: to be named on Friday.
Scotland: Greig Tonks, Lee Jones, Alex Dunbar, Duncan Taylor, Rory Hughes, Finn Russell, Ali Price, Hamish Watson, John Barclay, Jonny Gray, Ben Toolis, Zander Fagerson, Fraser Brown, Gordon Reid. Reserves: Ross Ford, Allan Dell, Willem Nel, Tim Swinson, Josh Strauss, Henry Pyrgos , Ruaridh Jackson, Matt Scott.
The long-touted fight between UFC star Conor McGregor and the former five-division boxing champion Floyd Mayweather is set for 26 August at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. The two fighters confirmed the news with posts to social media. On Instagram, Mayweather said: “It’s official!”. McGregor was similarly to the point: “THE FIGHT IS ON,” he wrote on Twitter. As a barb, the 28-year-old Irishman added a picture of Mayweather’s father, Floyd Sr, a presumed joke at the expense of his 40-year-old rival’s age.
The bout will be scheduled for 12 rounds at the junior middleweight limit of 154lbs with 10-ounce gloves, Mayweather’s longtime confidant, Leonard Ellerbe, confirmed in a conference call on Wednesday night. The Mayweather Promotions CEO added that the financial details including the purse split will not be disclosed and are protected under a confidentiality agreement.
Earlier on Wednesday, the Nevada Athletic Commission approved a request from Mayweather Promotions to host a fight in Las Vegas on 26 August.
Terms for the event have not been confirmed but the August date had been talked about as a fight between Mayweather and McGregor for some time. When the two meet it will be a boxing rather than mixed martial arts match-up. McGregor has already applied for a boxing license in Nevada, although he has never boxed professionally. Mayweather retired undefeated in 49 professional fights, and is widely recognized as one of the greatest boxers of all time. Mayweather is a huge favourite: early Las Vegas odds had him at 1-10 to win the fight with McGregor 7-1.
Bob Bennett, the executive director of the Nevada Athletic Commission, confirmed to ESPN on Wednesday that Mayweather Promotions had pulled out of a request for the fight before reapplying. “I got a call [on Tuesday night] from Mayweather Promotions that they wanted to be put back on the agenda, so I put them back on the agenda,” Bennett told the broadcaster. “They pulled the request but then decided to put it back on.”
Both men stand to make tens of millions of dollars from the bout, which will be more about making money than treating the public to a display of athletic skill. It would also prove a lucrative platform for Mayweather’s stable of fighters. The former champion has said he would like two of the fighters he promotes, Badou Jack and the talented junior lightweight world champion Gervonta Davis, to appear on the undercard. Mayweather made around $250m from his fight against Manny Pacquiao in 2015, and would expect to draw a similar sum for the McGregor fight. The Irishman is likely to make less but any earnings would outstrip anything he has made during his UFC career.
THE FIGHT IS ON. pic.twitter.com/KhW0u3jRft
There has been no shortage of critics of the fight between UFC’s biggest star and a 40-year-old who hasn’t fought since September 2015. Last month Mayweather’s former rival in the ring, Oscar De La Hoya, said the fight would harm boxing.
“With each passing day, it looks more and more likely that the circus known as Floyd Mayweather v Conor McGregor will be coming to town in the near future,” said De La Hoya. “As undercard fights start to take form, athletic commissions give their blessings in exchange for millions of dollars, and the fighters start counting even more cash, one group will eventually be left to make sure this farce doesn’t occur – we, the fans, who are the lifeblood of our sport ... Our sport might not ever recover.”
There are a lot of sports writers and fans who are adamant that it’s impossible to compare sporting teams across seasons and eras. Taken literally, that’s a truism, because every sport evolves, and what worked for a great team in, say the 1980s, might not work – or even be within the rules of the game – today.
Still, if asked to identify some of the best AFL teams of recent years, most would almost certainly include the 2000 Essendon, 2011 Geelong, and 2012 Hawthorn teams. We all have, if nothing else, some intuitive sense of relative team abilities across time.
As imperfect as it is, one way of quantifying a team’s relative ability is to apply mathematics to the results it achieves, adjusting for the quality of the teams they faced. Adjustment for opponent quality is important because, were we to use just raw results, a 90-point thrashing of a struggling team would be treated no differently in our assessment of a team’s ability than a similar result against a more talented opponent.
This notion of continuously rating individuals or teams using results adjusted for opposition quality has a long history. One version of the method can be traced back to Arpad Elo, who came up with it as a way of rating chess players as they defeated, drew or lost to other players of sometimes widely differing abilities. It’s still used for that purpose today.
In sports like football, Elo-style rating systems can be expanded to provide not just a single rating for a team, but a separate rating for its offensive and defensive abilities; the former is based on the team’s record of scoring points relative to the quality of the defences it has faced, and the latter on its record of preventing points being scored relative to the quality of the offences it has faced.
If we do this for the AFL we can quantify the offensive and defensive abilities of teams within and across seasons using a common currency: points.
There are many ways to do this, and a number of websites offer their own versions, but the methodology we’ll use here has the following key characteristics:
Applying this methodology generates the data in the chart below, which records the offensive and defensive ratings of every team from seasons 2000 to 2016 as at the end of their respective home-and-away seasons. Teams that ultimately won the flag are signified by dots coloured red, and those that finished runner-up as dots coloured orange. The grey dots are the other teams from each season – those that missed the grand final.
We see that teams lie mostly in the bottom-left and top-right quadrants, which tells us that teams from the modern era that have been above-average offensively have also tended to be above-average defensively, and conversely that below-average offensive teams have tended to be below-average defensively as well.
The level of association between teams’ offensive and defensive ratings can be measured using something called a correlation coefficient, which takes on values between -1 and +1. Negative values imply a negative association – say if strong offensive teams tended to be weak defensively and vice versa – while positive values imply a positive association, such as we see in the chart.
From the correlation coefficients for team ratings in the current and previous eras we see the degree of association between team offensive and defensive ratings has been at historically high levels in the modern era. In fact, it’s not been as high as this since the earliest days of the VFL.
In other words, teams’ offensive and defensive ratings have tended to be more similar than they have been different in the modern era.
By way of comparison, here’s the picture for the 1980 to 1999 era in which the weaker relationship between teams’ offensive and defensive ratings is apparent.
Note that the increase in correlation between teams’ offensive and defensive abilities in the modern era has not come with much of a reduction in the spread of team abilities. If we ignore the teams that are in the lowest and highest 5% on offensive and defensive abilities, the range of offensive ratings in the modern era span about 31 points and defensive ratings span about 34 points. For the 1980-1999 era the equivalent ranges are both about two points larger.
One plausible hypothesis for the cause of the closer association between the offensive and defensive abilities of modern teams would be that coaching and training methods have improved and served to reduce the level of independent variability in the two skill sets.
The charts for both eras have one thing in common, however: the congregation of grand finalists – the orange and red dots – in the north-eastern corner. This is as we might expect because this is the quadrant for teams that are above-average both offensively and defensively.
Only a handful of grand finalists in either era have finished their home-and-away season with below-average offensive or defensive ratings. In the modern era, just two teams have gone into the finals with below-average defensive ratings – Melbourne in 2000 and Port Adelaide in 2007, both of which finished as runners-up in their respective seasons.
Melbourne finished its home-and-away season conceding 100 points or more in four of its last eight games, and conceding 98 and 99 points in two others. Those results took a collective toll on its defensive rating.
Port Adelaide ended their 2007 home-and-away season more positively but probably not as well as a team second on the ladder might have been expected to – an assessment that seems all the more reasonable given the grand final result just a few weeks later. In that 2007 grand final, Geelong defeated them by 119 points.
The chart for the modern era also highlights a few highly-rated teams that could consider themselves unlucky to have not made the grand final in their years – the 2016 Adelaide and St Kilda teams in particular, though that Saints’ rating was somewhat elevated by its 139-point thrashing of the Lions in the final home-and-away game of that season.
Based on the relatively small sample of successful teams shown in this chart, it’s difficult to come to any firm conclusions about the relative importance of offensive versus defensive ability for making grand finals and winning flags, and impossible to say anything at all about their relative importance in getting a team to the finals in the first place.
To look at that issue we use the ratings in a slightly different way. Specifically, we use them to calculate the winning rates of teams classified on the basis of their offensive and defensive superiority or inferiority at the time of their clash.
Those calculations are summarised in the table below, which also groups games into eras to iron out season-to-season fluctuations and make underlying differences more apparent.
The percentages that are most interesting are those in the column furthest on the left in each block. They tell how successful teams that have found themselves stronger defensively but weaker offensively than their opponents have been.
What we find is that, in every era since the second world war:
We should note though that none of the percentages are statistically significantly different from 50%, so we can’t definitively claim that, in any particular era, defensive superiority has been preferable to offensive superiority in the home-and-away season or that the opposite has been true in finals. That’s the clear tendency, but the evidence is statistically weak, so the differences we see might be no more than random noise.
In any case, the effect sizes we see are quite small – around 1% to 2% points – so practically it makes more sense to conclude that offensive and defensive abilities have been historically of roughly equal importance to a team’s success in home-and-away games and in finals.
So, where do the current crop of teams sit? The chart below maps each of the 18 current teams’ ratings as at the end of round 12 and the ratings of all 34 grand finalists from the period 2000-2016 as at the end of round 12 in their respective years.
Adelaide stand alone offensively, with a rating almost as good as the 2000 Essendon team who were 12-0 after round 12 having averaged just over 136 points per game in a season where the all-team average score was 103 points per team per game across the entire home-and-away season. The Dons scored then at a rate just over 30% higher than an average team.
This year, Adelaide are averaging just under 119 points per game in a season where the all-team average is just under 91 points per game, which is also about 30% higher. They are, clearly, a formidable team offensively, though they’ve yet to impress consistently defensively.
The 2017 Port Adelaide and GWS teams come next, both located just outside the crop of highest-rated grand finalists, and having combined ratings a little below Adelaide’s. This week’s loss to Essendon had a (quite reasonably) significant effect on Port’s rating, as did GWS’s loss to Carlton.
Geelong, Collingwood, Sydney, Richmond and the Western Bulldogs are a little more south-east of that prime flag-winner territory, and would require a few above-expectation performances in upcoming weeks to enter that area. The Bulldogs in particular would need to show a little more offensive ability to push into the group, though they had a similar rating at the same point last season, so who’s to say they need to do anything much more.
Collingwood’s relatively high rating might raise a few eyebrows, but they have, it should be noted, generated more scoring shots in their losses to the Western Bulldogs in round one and Essendon in round five, and generated only four or fewer less scoring shots in their losses to Richmond in round two, St Kilda in round four, Carlton in round seven, GWS in round eight, and Melbourne in round 12. They’re currently ranked seventh on combined rating.
Essendon, Melbourne and St Kilda form the next sub-group – rated slightly above average on combined rating but below almost all previous grand finalists at the equivalent point in the season.
No other team has a combined rating that is positive or that exceeds that of any flag winner at this point in the season since 2000. As such, the remaining seven teams would make history were they to win the flag.
Still, there’s a lot that can happen between now and the end of the season, as we can see in this final chart, which shows 2017 team ratings and the ratings of all non-grand finalists from the seasons from 2000 to 2016.
There are plenty of sides in the chart that rated highly at the end of round 12 that never got as far as grand final day.
For example, the Geelong 2010 team was 10-2 after 12 rounds, one game clear at the head of the competition ladder with a 156 percentage. That team went 7-3 over the remainder of the home-and-away season to finish runners-up in the minor premiership before being eliminated by the minor premiers, Collingwood, 120-79 in a preliminary final.
And, in any case, in a year where results have constantly surprised and where two wins currently separates fith from 17th on the ladder, no team can reasonably feel assured of progressing into September, let alone to the MCG at the end of that month.
Even the best-laid plans can be instantly scuppered and the British & Irish Lions are suddenly on red alert over the fitness of Owen Farrell. A thigh strain sustained in training has ruled the fly-half out of the match-day squad to face the Maori All Blacks on Saturday and time is not on his side before the first Test against the All Blacks one week later.
Farrell is reported to have a grade one quadricep tear, which is at the lesser end of the scale but the last thing the Lions need is a kicker and playmaker with a bad leg. For all the attention given to Peter O’Mahony’s selection as captain against the Maori, the two names uppermost in Gatland’s mind are currently Farrell and the tour captain, Sam Warburton. If neither start the first Test for reasons of injury and form respectively, the Lions’ stock of on-field leaders will be conspicuously depleted.
As yet there is no official indication when Farrell may be fit again, with Dan Biggar coming on to Saturday’s bench, but even more pressure now rests on Jonathan Sexton, whose best chance of starting the Tests at No10 had previously rested on Farrell playing at 12. Barring a swift recovery for the Saracen, this weekend’s midfield combination of Sexton, Ben Te’o and Jonathan Davies are on standby to feature against New Zealand as well.
Gatland, one suspects, was planning on Farrell, Te’o and Davies forming a 10-12-13 partnership in Auckland and hoping a late rush of form from Warburton would secure him a place ahead of O’Mahony or Sean O’Brien. The two Irishmen and Taulupe Faletau were so impressive as a back-row combination, however, in last Saturday’s win over the Crusaders that Warburton may find the first Test arriving a few days too soon.
Gatland, by his own admission, is currently tempted to leave the trio intact. With O’Mahony also set to remain the on-field captain even when Warburton comes on, the ground is certainly well prepared for the Test skipper and the tour leader to be separate individuals. “He [Warburton] is well aware of the competition at the moment,” confirmed Gatland. “He fully understands that loose forward trio went outstandingly well against the Crusaders. But one of the reasons we selected him as captain of the squad is because this tour isn’t about Sam Warburton, it’s about putting the squad first. So if he’s not involved in the first Test because of the performance on Saturday night, he will fully understand that.”
Little room for misinterpretation there. Similarly, before Farrell’s fitness issues emerged, Gatland did not mince his words about Sexton: “I think Johnny needs some more rugby. I thought he was really good coming off the bench the other day but Johnny knows his last two games before that weren’t his best games of rugby. He was down a little bit on confidence but, at the moment, he’s got a bit of his mojo back.”
In almost the same breath, even so, the head coach left the door ajar for a second-half renewal of the 10-12 axis that went well in Christchurch after Davies departed early with a head knock. “That combination was pretty seamless,” agreed Gatland, emphasising the need to have different variations up his sleeve. “We’ve got to make sure we’re not fully showing our hand. We’ve got to keep some combinations back and keep the All Blacks guessing a little about what the final squad might be.” The way things are going that might not be necessary.
Gatland’s opposite number, Steve Hansen, will certainly expect to see most of this side trotting out at Eden Park. Anthony Watson, for now, appears to have jumped ahead of Liam Williams on the wing while the No15 jersey looks to be Leigh Halfpenny’s to lose. Te’o might not have been everyone’s Test inside-centre before the tour but has looked more comfortable there to date than Robbie Henshaw. Maro Itoje has also been invited to prove he can offer more than Alun Wyn Jones; Gatland will be inclined to revert to the Welshman alongside George Kruis as his starting Test lock combination but that could yet change should Itoje has a stormer.
Rhys Webb and Dan Cole, assuming full fitness, must also be contenders to replace Greig Laidlaw and Kyle Sinckler on the bench, although the latter is proving one of this squad’s most engaging, enthusiastic members. If Ken Owens and Jack McGrath are to leapfrog Jamie George and Mako Vunipola respectively, meanwhile, they are going to have to buck the evidence of this tour so far.
On a beautiful sunny day beside Lake Rotorua, Vunipola was also prominent on the list of suspects after the backs finished their session to discover some mischievous forwards had either tied together their training shoe laces or removed them completely. Smiles were soon wiped off faces, though, when the NZ Maori’s squad was unveiled a couple of hours later. With the quicksilver Chief Damian McKenzie at fly-half, Nehe Milner-Skudder and the equally elusive Rieko Ioane on the wings and the dangerous James Lowe at full-back, the Lions will be in for a breathless afternoon if they allow their opponents any time or space. McKenzie, even if closely policed, has the pace and skill to outwit the most aggressive rush defence with a clever chip or two. The Lions cannot hold too much back if they want to emerge victorious.
British & Irish Lions L Halfpenny; A Watson, J Davies, B Te’o, G North; J Sexton, C Murray; M Vunipola, J George, T Furlong, G Kruis, M Itoje, P O’Mahony, S O’Brien, T Faletau. Replacements K Owens, J McGrath, K Sinckler, I Henderson, S Warburton, G Laidlaw, D Biggar, E Daly.
Maori All Blacks J Lowe; N Milner-Skudder, M Proctor, C Ngatai; RIoane; D McKenzie, T Kerr-Barlow; K Hames, A Dixon (captain), B May, J Wheeler, T Franklin, A Ioane, E Dixon, L Messam. Replacements H Elliot, C Eves, M Renata, L Price, K Pryor, B Hall, I West, R Thompson.
Jordan Pickford has undergone a medical as part of a proposed £30m transfer to Everton.
The Sunderland goalkeeper, in Poland on England Under-21 duty, had wanted to postpone a decision until after the European Championship but Everton have moved swiftly to seal what would be a record transfer for a British keeper.
Having agreed to meet Sunderland’s asking price for the 23-year-old earlier this week, with add-ons taking the fee to £30m, Everton sent members of their medical team to Poland to complete the next stage of the transfer.
Pickford’s arrival will be part of a significant outlay by Everton this summer, with Ronald Koeman also close to adding fellow Dutchman Davy Klaassen to his midfield. Everton are understood to be at an advanced stage of negotiations with Ajax for their captain and are interested in the Burnley defender Michael Keane, Swansea City’s Gylfi Sigurdsson and Malaga striker Sandro Ramírez.
Everton’s director of football, Steve Walsh, has travelled to Italy to discuss potential arrivals from Serie A.
Gareth Southgate has given a bleak assessment of England’s status on the back of their demoralising defeat by France and made it clear “there is no magic wand” to help the national team back to a position where they can cope against elite opponents.
Southgate, reflecting on only three wins from eight games in charge, said every part of the team needed improvement and admitted the 3-2 defeat at the Stade de France, against a side who had to play with 10 men for virtually the entire second half was the first time since taking the job he had been angry with his players in the dressing room.
“There was no point raising my voice but equally you can’t sugarcoat what happened in that final 30 minutes,” Southgate said. “I don’t think that does any harm. I think they know anyway, they are a very honest group of players. It’s a big challenge. I played the last time we won in France, 20 years ago, and actually we got battered for a lot of that game and scored a goal on the counter.
“That’s the reality of where we are as a country. We have some young players coming through who have really good potential and can be exciting but there is no shortcut. I am afraid there is no magic wand but we are recognising where we are short, we are recognising where we can exploit teams. We’ve had some joy doing that but our game, in all areas, without the ball has to improve.”
Southgate’s wins have come against Malta, Scotland and Lithuania but the manager said he did not regret choosing difficult opponents for the friendly fixtures. His team have already been beaten by Germany, with a return game planned for Wembley in November, and drew with Spain during his spell as the caretaker manager.
Southgate was also frustrated by the 2-2 draw against Scotland at Hampden Park on Saturday but the defeat in Paris represents the biggest disappointment of the new era, not least because he noted some of the team’s old flaws once Raphaël Varane had been sent off. England, he said, had become anxious as soon as they had the extra man.
“I am bitterly disappointed to be 2-2, with them down to 10, and not at least take a draw,” Southgate said. “But I am not shocked. I saw France a lot last summer [during Euro 2016]. I know the power and athleticism they have and the speed. I also know where we are as a team and the hard work that lies ahead to try to bridge the gap between the three teams we’ve played.
“The only way we can understand the gap is by playing these teams. If we’d played lesser teams and won maybe we would all be getting excited and thinking we are better than we actually are. The reality is to find out exactly where we are against the very best. We’ve had two matches away and one at home and for long periods we’ve acquitted ourselves well. But we have a bit to do and I think it’s important, as a group of players and a group of staff, we recognise that.”
He added: “If we’d lost to lesser teams then that would be a bigger concern. I know we are improving and I know the players are receptive but I also know that’s not going to happen in the space of two or three months. I’ve got to keep that at the forefront of my mind. I want the players to feel disappointed because they have to recognise the moments when they have an opportunity to get a really good result.”
Southgate had used Tuesday’s friendly to experiment with a 3-4-3 system but a bad night for England does not necessarily mean him reverting to an orthodox back four. “I don’t think the goals we have conceded are anything to do with either system,” he said. “We were overloaded on a set play for the first goal. We got a tackle [wrong] and it was a weird chain of events for the second goal and the third was a gift.”
Claude Puel has been sacked by Southampton after one season in charge. The 55-year-old’s position had been the source of speculation and rumour for some time with a section of Saints supporters displeased with their team’s style of play and results under the Frenchman.
Thomas Tuchel, the former Borussia Dortmund manager, has been linked with taking over at St Mary’s. The former Alavés manager Mauricio Pellegrino and Reading’s Jaap Stam could also be contenders. Whoever does so will be the club’s fourth manager in a little over four years, following on from Mauricio Pochettino and Ronald Koeman.
A club statement said: “Everyone at Southampton would like to express our thanks to Claude for his hard work and commitment this year. The highlight of the season was a memorable day at Wembley in the EFL Cup final, a day our fans will always treasure.
“We wish Claude well for the future. The search for a new management team is underway. We are confident we will find the right fit in line with the long term vision of the club.”
Having arrived last June as the successor to Koeman following the Dutchman’s departure to Everton, Puel led Southampton to eighth in the Premier League and to the final of the EFL Cup, where they were somewhat unlucky to lose 3-2 to Manchester United.
Despite the positivity around Southampton’s Wembley appearance in February, they lost 16 league games to slip down the table after Koeman had delivered sixth place before moving to Goodison Park.
Saints also suffered early exits from the FA Cup and the Europa League. Come the final game of the season, a 1-0 home defeat to Stoke, fans appeared to have turned against Puel, chanting “You don’t know what you’re doing” and booing the manager.
Rumours of player unrest have continued into the summer and, on the day which saw the 2017-18 fixtures released, Puel has departed just 12 months into a two-year contract. Southampton start the season at home to Swansea on 12 August.
Those in positions of authority may be soft targets for vociferous abuse but nobody has matched the United States Golf Association’s fuelling of such fires.
The rules farce that overshadowed Dustin Johnson’s maiden major win, at last year’s US Open at Oakmont, would have been damaging enough for the USGA had it arrived in isolation. Twelve months earlier, the world’s best players had erupted in fury regarding the dreadful condition of greens at Chambers Bay.
Golf’s governing body in the US was embroiled in further chaos in April, a women’s major having descended into farce after a ruling based on contact from a television viewer; 24 hours earlier. And there is more; at the conclusion of the US Women’s Open of 2016 the USGA’s president, Diana Murphy, continued a propensity for erratic speech-making by continually calling the winner by the wrong name. Pieced together, this is like professional sport meets Eldorado.
In their traditional, eve of tournament address at the US Open, the USGA’s leading lights were not 100% convincing over whether a repeat of the Johnson scenario will be avoided. There has, at least, been an admission that things went badly wrong in Pennsylvania and a move to improve on archaic processes.
“Something like the last couple of years affects our whole organisation,” Mike Davis, the USGA’s executive director, said. “Any time your competency comes into question that affects the people who are dealing with the history of the game and helping to grow the game. Of course, we want to avoid these things but sometimes things happen.”
Specific issues at Erin Hills are partly within the USGA’s control and partly not. A huge property – some capital cities are smaller – will inevitably lead to tediously long rounds. The USGA slashed back areas of thick fescue rough early this week but deny that was a response to widespread complaints from players. “It is not as if we don’t listen to feedback from players,” Davis said. “But in this case it had absolutely zero to do with what the players were saying. We look at some spots and said, simply: ‘This is not going to play properly.’”
The great unknown comes in the form of weather, which is infamously changeable at this time of year in the Midwest. Early predictions suggest heavy rain will have an impact, most notably on the first round.
Almost a fortnight has passed since Phil Mickelson informed the USGA he likely would not participate in the one major thus far absent from his CV, with the left-hander keen to attend his daughter’s high school graduation on Thursday lunchtime in San Diego. Davis – with a straight face – claimed it was pure coincidence Mickelson was given a late time for the first round, thereby keeping alive the possibility of competing should a significant weather delay arise.
This situation is not particularly impressive, with the clear inference the pin-up boy of US golf is being assisted in a manner that would not be forthcoming towards others. Given the timescales involved, and in avoiding uncertainty for others, Mickelson should have been told either to commit to playing or not.
Johnson arrived in Wisconsin on Tuesday afternoon, his partner having given birth to the couple’s second child a day earlier. Glory at Oakmont was sufficient for Johnson to finally endorse underlying talent. He is now established as No1 in the world; a course where long, straight driving will be essential is surely of benefit.
Jason Day and Rory McIlroy retain precisely the same weapon, with the latter’s performance after an injury absence of particular intrigue. It is a curious truism that none of the world’s best players enter this major in particularly striking form. The expectancy is of a lower winning score than has been typical over the past 20 years, provided the course is set up in a sensible manner.
“We want to afford players a completely clear stage to perform and do their job,” Murphy said. “We want to stay out of the way and not be part of the story.” The very fact this point had to be made at all rather told one of its own.
Eoin Morgan was left lamenting a lack of home advantage and his side’s inability to adapt after a collective dose of paralysis with the bat on a reused Cardiff pitch led to England being bundled out of the Champions Trophy by a resurgent Pakistan.
As Sarfraz Ahmed led his players on a lap of honour in front of a strong and jubilant Pakistani support, England could only reflect on a dismal showing in the eight-wicket defeat in the semi-final, one that means their search for a first global 50-over crown rolls on to the 2019 World Cup on home soil.
Bowled out for 211 in 49.5 overs after losing the toss, any chuntering about the rough end of conditions should have dissipated when Pakistan cruised to their target with 77 balls to spare for the loss of two wickets. Azhar Ali’s 76 and 57 from his opening partner, Fakhar Zaman, broke the back of the run chase, with Mohammad Hafeez sealing their place in Sunday’s final at The Oval when he pulled Ben Stokes for four in dominant fashion.
Morgan pointed to his side failing to adapt to a slow, low pitch that was used 48 hours earlier when Pakistan won their final group game against Sri Lanka – something he felt brought their eighth-ranked opponents into contention.
“I don’t think there was any home advantage,” Morgan said. “We were not over-confident. Knowing we were going to play on a used wicket potentially brought Pakistan’s game closer to their home [conditions]. So it was a big challenge and one that was too far for us.
“We left ourselves short adapting to conditions. It’s a big frustration because I think we’ve played some great cricket in this tournament and we weren’t anywhere close to it today. Fair credit to Pakistan, they played brilliantly.”
Asked why Pakistan’s batsmen thrived where his did not, Morgan replied: “I think the explanation is they played two days ago on it.”
England collapse was not a quickfire horror show of old but rather a slow suffocation that from 128 for two in the 28th over saw them lose eight for 83. Having struck 95 boundaries in their three group stage wins, they passed the rope only 15 times against Pakistan with the impotence summed up by a 64-ball 34 from Stokes made up of ones and twos.
Pakistan’s bowlers must be given their dues, having reacted to Mohammad Amir’s late withdrawal because of back spasms with a performance of nous and skill. Hasan Ali’s three for 35 from 10 overs shone brightest, earning him the man of the match award and taking him to 10 wickets for the tournament and the top of the bowling charts. Each one has been met with the slippery seamer’s now trademark chest-thumping celebration.
“I think the pitch was very good,” said Sarfraz, whose side have defied all expectations since their opening defeat against India. “It was good for both teams. We played very good cricket, that’s why we won.”
While Pakistan look ahead to Sunday and a possible reunion with India – Virat Kohli’s side take on Bangladesh at Edgbaston on Thursday – England must reflect on how the bubble of their two-year resurgence burst.
Morgan said the direction of travel remained positive, something echoed by the England coach, Trevor Bayliss.
“There’s a number of our guys who haven’t been at this level before and it is a learning curve,” Bayliss said. “Finishing third or fourth, I think that’s about right where we sit in world cricket at the moment [they are ranked fourth]. We’ve got a long way to go until we reach the level we want to get to and a level I believe we’re good enough to get to.”
Warren Gatland, look away now. After preparations for the Test series against New Zealand were dented, if not derailed, by a second midweek defeat, the size of the task awaiting the British & Irish Lions has come sharply into focus with Steve Hansen naming the strongest All Blacks side available to face Samoa on Friday.
Aaron Smith’s selection at scrum-half, in favour of the in-form TJ Perenara, is perhaps the most eye-catching choice considering his slump last year while the Barrett brothers – Beauden, Scott and Jordie – may make history as the first set of three siblings to play in the same New Zealand side, if the latter two come off the bench. What strikes most about Hansen’s side, however, is the heavy artillery it contains. It is ostensibly a fixture for New Zealand – who have not played together since last November – to get rid of any lingering rust but increasingly, and considering the Lions have lost two of their four matches so far, it presents the opportunity to make a statement.
Kieran Read, Dane Coles and Ryan Crotty are all absent through injury – though Read and Crotty are expected to be fit for the first Test – but Ben Smith captains the side from full-back, having missed out on the Highlanders’ win against the Lions on Tuesday. Sonny Bill Williams plays his first international since the 2015 Rugby World Cup final alongside Anton Lienert‑Brown in the centres while Israel Dagg, the top international try‑scorer in 2016, keeps his place on the right wing despite the form of Waisake Naholo against Gatland’s side in Dunedin. Julian Savea will start on the opposite flank.
Up front, Joe Moody, Codie Taylor and Owen Franks reprise the front row that came off second best for the Crusaders against the Lions – in the eyes of the referee Mathieu Raynal at least – while Brodie Retallick and Sam Whitelock again combine in the second row. Jerome Kaino makes his first appearance since April following knee surgery – his performance will be of great interest to Hansen – while Sam Cane is at openside flanker and Ardie Savea is named at No8.
In total, it is a match-day 23 with 871 caps – Jordie Barrett and the back-rower Vaea Fifita are due to win their first from the bench, where they are joined by the Highlanders’ fly-half Lima Sopoaga, Nathan Harris, Charlie Faumuina, Wyatt Crockett, Scott Barrett and Perenara. Sopoaga gets the nod with Aaron Cruden nursing a knee injury but he is another expected to be in contention next week.
Hansen rarely resists the temptation to throw a few barbs in the Lions’ direction but the fact that New Zealand have even arranged this match – they rarely bother with warm-up games before a series – can be considered a sign of respect. The opportunity to blow away the cobwebs outweighs the danger posed by a fired-up Samoa leaving a mark on any of Hansen’s players.
“Whilst we asked for this game to help us prepare for the Lions series, once it became a reality, it then took on its own importance, this is a Test match against a quality and very capable opponent,” he said. “Samoa are about to kick off the qualifying stage of their Rugby World Cup campaign, so this will make them even more dangerous. The Samoans are always a challenge and will play with a high level of physicality and skill. At the very minimum, we will need to match that.
“This [training] first week has been about bringing together the players from the five different Super clubs and reintroducing them to the All Blacks way. We’ve had a good week and are really looking forward to this match.”
Preceding the All Blacks’ match against Samoa at Eden Park are Wales, who face Tonga to open their summer tour. Wales’s acting head coach, Robin McBryde, has named three debutants including the Scarlets’ 22-year-old winger Steff Evans, who finished last season as the Pro12’s top try-scorer. Elsewhere, Thomas Young of Wasps wins his first cap at openside, as does Seb Davies in the second row.
Jamie Roberts captains the side alongside Scott Williams in the centres while Alex Cuthbert starts on the right wing with the Auckland-born Gareth Anscombe at full-back, meaning Keelan Giles is still awaiting his first Wales cap. Gareth and Sam Davies form the half-backs for Wales in a match that was originally due to take place in the Tongan capital of Nuku’alofa but was rescheduled amid safety concerns over the Teufaiva Sport Stadium.
While Simon Burnton is critical of sporting statues (Sporting statues too often become a busted flush, Sport, 12 June), artists are increasingly using a wide range of media to celebrate or critique sport.
Regarding football, I recommend Jason Minsky’s video piece that begins with a shot of an expansive sea and the occasional cry of a seagull and it then closes in to an assistant referee excitedly waving his flag, while standing on a floating corner of a football pitch. While it could perhaps be seen as depicting such officials as “all at sea”, the clue to this beautifully filmed conceptual piece is in the title – Mare Liberum.Dr Doug SandleFounding chair, Fields of Vision – bringing the arts and sport together
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
As you may be aware, Jack and Jill went up the hill to fetch a pail of water, Jack fell down and broke his crown and Jill came tumbling after. What a humiliating fiasco that was and it’s no surprise that Jack and Jill haven’t been heard of since, unless that was them masterminding Theresa May’s recent election campaign. What’s sure is that the original water-carrier, as so dubbed by Eric Cantona, remains very much to the fore, although it seems that Didier Deschamps’ bucket has sprung a leak and not everyone in France is convinced he has the slightest notion how to fix it. Look at him, careering downhill with a rusty crock, getting water all over his tiny shoes and making all the bullies laugh! Run, squat Diddly, run!
Poor Deschamps, he’s been poor. Reaching the final of Euro 2016 on home soil fooled no one: France have been mostly plodsome for the five years in which Deschamps has been in charge even though he can call on some of the most exciting attacking talent in Europe – or, as Deschamps still prefers, Moussa Sissoko. Deschamps is even turning qualification for next summer’s World Cup into a c0ckamamie palaver, with Friday’s goof-riddled defeat in Sweden leaving France vulnerable to an unlikely resurgence by Holland. “I make choices after a lot of thought and analysis and things either go well or they don’t,” explained Deschamps, showing off the benefit of all that thought and analysis.
What France could really do with before breaking up for their holidays is a reminder that there are countries with an even more deeply entrenched capacity to make things dull and difficult. As luck would have it, Tuesday’s friendly in Paris is against England. And because it’s in Paris, England’s fancy-thinkin’ manager, Gareth Southgate, has decided to go avant garde. The manager will start with Burnley’s Tom Heaton so as not to cause any further interruption to Joe Hart’s daydreams. Deschamps, meanwhile, will also make changes, one of them likely to result in the inclusion of N’Golo Kanté, whom Deschamps has omitted in recent months on the grounds that Blaise Matuidi offers more. The big question, then, is whether Kanté can show Deschamps, of all people, that he is much more than a water-carrier.
Join Paul Doyle from 8pm BST for hot MBM coverage of France 3-1 England.
“He’s a player who’s very comfortable receiving possession, and has all the attributes and capabilities to play as a holding midfield player. He obviously hasn’t done that yet, really, so that’s a decision we have to make. But do I believe he can play that role? Absolutely” – Gareth Southgate has gazed into his crystal ball and seen John Stones losing possession as a defensive midfielder.
David Squires rounds off the season with a look at England U-20s, Captain Radge and more. But never fear, he’ll be back through the summer with a new series.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“Re: yesterday’s Fiver and ‘the point being, The Fiver’s dye is cast’. Why are you throwing dye? Did you spend time with the woad clad Ancient British marines? Is Purple Tin really purple and does it stain? Alea iacta est” – Ken McCarron (and 1,056 others).
“Yesterday’s Fiver described how Theresa May is a perfect example of what can go wrong when you put all your cards on the table, as a warning to Joe Hart. I think it depends on the game. When I was a teenager, my brother, some friends and I used to kill time after school playing various card games, including one I forget the proper name of, but was basically a more grown-up version of Donkey, with cards-on-knuckles punishments for the loser of each round. I re-iterate, if this sounds stupid, it’s because we were teenagers. Anyway, after a while players developed their own playing styles, including ‘red and black’ and ‘numbers and royalty’, where cards were grouped face down on the table for players to select. However, one lad played what he called ‘controversial’, for which he placed his cards face up on the table. What’s most remarkable about this is that despite revealing his every strength and weakness, he never lost. Not once. It was a successful combination of hubris and luck that Premier League goalkeepers and prime ministers could only dream about” – Ed Taylor.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Ed Taylor.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Everton are addressing their goalkeeping malaise by throwing £30m at Sunderland for the outstanding Jordan Pickford.
Antoine Griezmann will be doing his lame celebration with Atlético Madrid for the foreseeable future after signing a one-year contract extension. “All of us Atléticos should congratulate ourselves for him staying with us,” cheered club suit José Luis Caminero. Coincidentally, Atlético are serving a transfer ban until January.
Chelsea and England U-21 striker Tammy Abraham wants to wait until after Euro 2017 before sorting out his future. “After this season I need to take myself to the next level,” he roared, somewhat dampening expectations for the tournament. “That’s the type of person I am.”
A Spanish state prosecutor has accused Him of defrauding Spain’s tax office with €14.7m in unpaid taxes. “[He] took advantage of a business structure created in 2010 to hide from fiscal authorities income generated in Spain from image rights,” read a statement.
Australia got a 4-0 home dusting at the hands of Brazil after falling behind inside 12 flamin’ seconds.
The Milk Cup first-round draw will be take place in Bangkok on Friday, because obviously.
And Northwich Victoria fans have launched a campaign to help raise £5,000 by Wednesday and save the club from going bust. “Our appeal is to any football fan, player or individuals that can help us get across the line no matter how big or small the donation,” said Vics supporter Ian Egerton.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
Long hair, short shorts and fans throwing fruit – former Tottenham player Gary Stevens reminisces about England’s 1984 Under-21 Euro glory.
Alexandre Lacazette may be lethal in a Lyon shirt but he’s still got a point to prove for Les Bleus, writes Sachin Nakrani.
Are Chelsea lining up a move for Real Madrid’s £63m substitute James Rodríguez? All the latest tattle in today’s Rumour Mill.
If you thought England’s U-20 World Cup winners were set for stardom then you don’t know the Premier League, forebodes Andy Hunter.
Then again, Devarshi Lodhia has been looking back to previous world-conquering teenagers who include Lionel Messi, Paul Pogba and Gabriel Jesus, so perhaps all is not lost.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
So it is England against Asia for the Champions trophy. Against expectation Pakistan and Bangladesh are semi-finalists – there is no surprise India have qualified. This should ensure all sides have vociferous support in Cardiff on Wednesday and at Edgbaston on Thursday. Even better, they say the sun is going to make an appearance as well. A fitting climax to the tournament is in prospect.
Pakistan may not have taken on the role of cornered tigers, a description Imran Khan as captain coined so effectively in the 1992 World Cup in Australasia but Sarfraz Ahmed’s motley side are putting up a good fight. Back then a Pakistan team far more intrinsically gifted than this one were on the brink of being knocked out of the tournament but everything clicked just in time and they went on to beat New Zealand and England in the semi-final and final respectively.
When Pakistan were thrashed by India in their first game there was little prospect of them making the semi-finals but two victories, albeit scrappy ones, against an out-of-sorts South Africa and a butter-fingered Sri Lanka, means Pakistan are two games away from lifting the trophy. That would be quite a heist.
After the defeat of Sri Lanka, Sarfraz, a resourceful captain and batsman (and probably the slowest runner between the wickets in the tournament), quickly remembered beating England in Cardiff in September last year, which was Pakistan’s solitary victory in a five-match series. It was not so difficult for him to recall that game since he scored 90 and was the man of the match. Thanks to Sarfraz, Pakistan chased down England’s 302.
In this tournament Cardiff has tended to produce lower scores than the other two venues and that might well suit Pakistan. Not so long ago England were the team better suited to low-scoring ODIs. Their strength was reckoned to be in the consistency of their pace bowling and their solid rather than swashbuckling batting. In this country they are adept at knocking off totals like the 237 required by Pakistan on Monday.
Now their approach has changed. England have become a good-wicket team. They possess batsmen who can devastate on the benign batting surfaces they now prefer rather than Test style technicians. With all those players capable of delivering pyrotechnics they are well-equipped for high-scoring matches on flat pitches.
Pakistan prefer to play like old England. They do not possess a string of batsmen who can clear the ropes regularly. Most of them, with the exception of Fakhar Zaman, like to take their time but they also possess quality pace bowlers such as Mohammad Amir, Hasan Ali and Junaid Khan, who is looking a far more effective operator than the man he replaced, Wahab Riaz. This trio can exploit the little bit of uneven bounce and seam movement that has been more evident in Cardiff than at Edgbaston and The Oval.
Now the sun is coming out, Pakistan may consider recalling their young leg-spinner, Shadab Khan, for the semi-final in place of Fahim Ashraf, who made a useful debut against Sri Lanka. There is a certain paranoia about playing two spinners in Cardiff because of the short boundary at the Taff end but this may be balanced by England’s traditional hesitancy against wrist-spinners (not that they have been that tentative in their recent dealings with Adam Zampa and Imran Tahir). Expect England to keep the bowling personnel used in their past two games, which means selecting both spinners.
England will start as the favourites after avoiding the rain and romping to three straightforward victories in the group games. The advantage of playing at home in the middle of the domestic season means they have more batsmen down the order capable of contributing. Many of the other sides have struggled badly once four or five wickets have fallen. The lower middle orders have been as rusty as abandoned old bikes.
India are even stronger favourites to win their semi-final at Edgbaston on Thursday. They have lost to Bangladesh only five times in the 33 ODIs between the two and this record has been achieved without home advantage. India have not had a match on home soil against Bangladesh since 1998. These games have not been regarded as great TV revenue creators, which may explain India’s reluctance to issue an invitation on more than three occasions.
In the last series between the sides – in Dhaka in 2015 – Bangladesh won 2-1. Their team have long shed any inferiority complex and are brimful of gnarled old pros two of whom, Shakib Al Hasan and Mahmudullah, shepherded them to victory against New Zealand at Cardiff last week quite brilliantly. Nonetheless it would be astonishing if they could do that at Edgbaston.
The most important person on court when the Golden State Warriors won the NBA title again was the man who wept. Sometimes it’s easy to forget how much their dynasty is because of Steve Kerr.
Could it last without him?
For all the talk of the Warriors as the NBA’s super villains with two MVPs, four of the game’s top 15 players and a fleet of role-fillers who would be starters on most other teams, Golden State may be the happiest team in pro sports. They win with joy. How many other great champion teams have said contentment was their top motivator? Michael Jordan’s Chicago Bulls – of whom Kerr was once a part – never claimed love as the key ingredient in hoisting a trophy.
But the Warriors who went 16-1 this postseason, beating Cleveland 129-120 in Monday’s Game 5 of the NBA finals, are unlike any other sports empire. They don’t motivate with anger. They don’t belittle one another. They win because they like who they are. They win because of culture, that’s what makes them so hard to beat. And as long as Kerr stays at Golden State they will remain the league’s best team.
Warriors assistant coach Bruce Fraser, who played college basketball with Kerr at Arizona, explained this well when he told me last year: “Steve is incredibly important and keen at handling situations where he’s able to get what he wants from the players without offending them, without getting into a screaming match.
Fraser added: “Sometimes I’m thinking: ‘He’s got to jump these guys, this is not good’. And the next thing you know he comes in and says something either really positive or very honest and from his heart and articulate and all of a sudden they have turned that problem into something good.”
The obvious reaction to Durant’s signing with Golden State last summer was that he was jumping on the float at the front of the parade. But Durant, who has always been more contemplative and soulful than other superstars, wanted something bigger than a gaudy ring when he joined the Warriors. He had watched the happiness with which they played and he wanted to be a part of it.
The winning just followed.
Few outside the NBA understand how much Kerr matters to the Warriors. How could they? With players like Durant, Steph Curry, Klay Thompson and Draymond Green how could Golden State lose? The assumption is anyone could coach them to a championship. Didn’t Luke Walton lead them to a 39-4 start last year and Mike Brown go 11-0 in these playoffs when Kerr was out with back issues? But as brilliant as Walton and Brown were, the foundation that allowed those wins to come was Kerr’s. The aura around the team is his.
Warriors general manager Bob Myers, the man who hired Kerr in 2014 didn’t fully grasp this himself until the middle of the 2015 finals, when at a tense point in the series he walked into a practice in Cleveland’s arena and found players blasting music from speakers, kicking soccer balls and laughing as they threw half-court shots. Instead of pressure there was euphoria. The Warriors weren’t fuming under a dark cloud as any other team would in such a situation, they were practicing to be themselves.
“Sitting in the stands I had this epiphany,” Myers told the Guardian last year. “I said: ‘I get it.’”
Late last night, after Golden State had won their second title in Kerr’s three years with the team, Myers laughed off the label of his team as the NBA’s Death Star.
“We’re still the same guys,” he said. “Kevin Durant is a great guy. He’s a nice guy. Steph Curry is one of the nicest people you will ever meet. I don’t think we were ever that. I think [with] our personalities people kind of embraced it in a funny kind of way. If that’s what they want to call us that’s not really who we are. I think we’re just a great group of people that want to play team basketball and don’t care who gets the credit.”
Kerr’s style works because much like San Antonio coach Gregg Popovich – a Kerr mentor – he doesn’t make the team about himself. He hates being the celebrity coach, grabbing the spotlight, rambling on about his theories. It was telling that during Monday night’s celebration, ESPN’s Doris Burke had to plow through the players celebrating on the stage to get the coach to talk about his team’s victory. Most coaches would have made sure to be her first interview.
That’s why the greatest threat to the Warriors empire is not LeBron James and the Cavaliers or the Spurs or the Celtics or any of the league’s rising teams. The greatest threat to Golden State’s continued dominance is Kerr’s fragile back. He has been in pain since his surgery after the first title in 2014 with the spinal cord fluid leak that forced him off the bench the first three rounds of the playoffs being the latest in a string of agonizing incidents.
“I don’t know if he can do this very much longer,” a Kerr associate recently told The Veritical’s Adrian Wojnarowski. Two weeks ago Kerr himself told the San Jose Mercury News his situation is “unprecedented” and said “We have to figure everything out this summer.”
It’s hard to imagine Kerr pushing through the hurt, twisting his body into airplane seats and running up and down the court in dress shoes 100 nights a year. If the pain persists he will have to leave and when he goes, the string that holds the Warriors together goes too. That isn’t to say Brown can’t take Golden State to more championships. He is an excellent coach. But his way isn’t Kerr’s way. No one’s is.
The Warriors culture is like none in the NBA. It’s still amazing to see the ease with which Durant slipped into a team that had just set a record for wins in a season. Kerr is lucky to have superstars such as Durant and Curry who put the team above themselves, but he is also the coach who gives them their joy.
Without it they are just another team with a lot of good players.
If a second midweek defeat of the tour has brought the Lions down to earth, there is equally no need for Warren Gatland to panic. There were positives in the 23-22 defeat in Dunedin – they outscored the Highlanders three tries to two after all – but many of their failings against the Blues returned. It was a breathless match, the best so far, but the Lions were found wanting in the final stages. Should Owen Farrell rather than Greig Laidlaw have kicked at goal considering it was his first involvement? Should Elliot Daly have allowed the clock to run down by lining up his long-range penalty? And why did the Lions not attempt to drive over from the late lineout? Both midweek defeats have been inflicted in the final six minutes when, as history has repeatedly shown, New Zealand are able to raise their game. The Lions must at the very least not allow theirs to fall apart.
The back row was always going to be complicated – Taulupe Faletau may be nailed on at No8 but flankers are proving more difficult. Sam Warburton did not have a good first half but he made significant improvements thereafter. It is hard to see Gatland leaving him out but Sean O’Brien was simply superb against the Crusaders. He could go to blindside but Peter O’Mahony is another in the frame, as is CJ Stander, who like Warburton, grew into this match. Justin Tipuric has shone in patches but the fact he was given 13 minutes in a contest tailor-made for him shows how desperate Gatland is for Warburton to prove his fitness. Considering the Lions struggled in the collisions and at the breakdown on Tuesday, O’Brien and the Warburton of the second half would seem the right blend but Gatland must be ruthless if his captain is not up to speed.
Defence and discipline, so pivotal against the Crusaders, were considerable blots on the Lions copybook. The penalty count was 12 as the Highlanders often got the better of the breakdown. George Kruis and his fellow forwards were effective at cleaning out rucks in Christchurch but that was not the case in Dunedin. The line speed was there but the Highlanders saw it coming and continually kicked, using a mixture of chips, crossfield kicks and grubbers. It did not always work – Tommy Seymour scored an intercept try from a Lima Sopoaga kick – but it caused the Lions problems and the All Blacks fly-half Beauden Barrett is the best in the world kicking from hand. One poor pass aside, Sopoaga looked assured and while Steve Hansen needs no reminder of Waisake Naholo’s qualities, he showed what a threat he can be.
That the scrum toiled will be a source of great frustration for Graham Rowntree and it cannot all be put down to the fact the referee, Angus Gardner, officiates on the Super Rugby circuit. That no doubt played its part – Dan Cole was furious with one scrum penalty against the Lions – and so Rowntree’s anger will be tempered by the fact two of the Tests will be refereed by Frenchmen. Nonetheless, it is a worry, particularly as the scrum got worse as the game wore on. The Highlanders pack isare underrated and contained only one All Black but if the Lions front-row replacements are supposed to be one of their biggest strengths, it was certainly not the case in Dunedin.
Courtney Lawes’s premature departure meant Alun Wyn Jones entered the fray earlier than Gatland would have wanted and that may give Maro Itoje the chance to stake his claim for a Test spot by playing against the Maori All Blacks on Saturday. There were not too many who advanced their hopes of featuring against New Zealand, other than maybe Kyle Sinckler and Rhys Webb, who seem destined for a bench role. In terms of front-row and back-three starters, no one is ahead of the chasing pack and while Jonathan Joseph caught the eye, he also made mistakes. Robbie Henshaw was better but it is hard to look past Ben Te’o if Gatland wants muscle at No12. Most telling will be whether Jonathan Sexton and Owen Farrell start together on Saturday. It would potentially allow Gatland a 6-2 bench split, with a bit more heft in someone like Iain Henderson, who showed his true colours against the Highlanders.
As part of Tom Jenkins’ series of films the Guardian spoke to Sebastian Coe, the president of the International Association of Athletics Federations. Ever since he assumed the position in August 2015 the sport has been mired in crisis – from allegations of deep-rooted corruption during the tenure of his predecessor, Lamine Diack, to state-sponsored doping and a battle to engage a new generation of participants and viewers. Even as the popularity of running has boomed, the status of athletics has declined in inverse proportion and a sport that once commanded peak-time viewing is among those battling for its life in the face of myriad challenges.
Guardian Sport: How do you begin regaining trust in your sport?
SC: “You have to start somewhere. My instincts were that we had to start by rebuilding the foundations. The first year was not a page turner but we moved the dial a long way very quickly. In the course of a year we rewrote the constitution of the sport, we created the integrity unit and that is up and running. It doesn’t answer the next question, which is ‘OK, that’s fine but how does that really manifest itself in terms of a return to trust?’. I tend to think of a triangle – you need trust, you need good leadership and you need relevance. The one crucial asset my sport has is that more people globally do what we do than any other sport. The first advantage we have is more people run than cycle or swim or do triathlon. We have to make sure the people doing that in their millions feel an affinity with what is going on in the sport and feel this is a movement they want to be part of and not a movement that is tainted.”
Your sport has been brought to its knees by a succession of crises. Is it not fatally undermined?
SC: “I don’t want to remotely diminish the importance or the challenge of those various crises. But I do draw comfort from sitting in the crowd at meetings. I do compete in Parkruns, I do compete in 10ks – albeit at the back of the field – and I’ve not found there has been any loss of excitement or ambition about being involved in the sport. People have been able to separate their own enjoyment of being involved in the running movement without it being undermined by the fragilities elsewhere. We don’t like those fragilities, they have hit us hard and they have damaged us. But they are not stopping people wanting to be part of our sport. There was no sign last year of a diminution of the gates at our stadiums.”
But won’t it reach a tipping point?
SC: “We’ve got to do everything we can as quickly as we can to make sure we don’t reach that tipping point. Rio as a sporting event, particularly for athletics, was the best event we’ve had. We had more records than ever before, more countries competing than ever before and more countries winning medals than ever before. Poor leadership doesn’t impact on performance, because the athletes repeatedly punch through the fragilities we’ve had.”
But clearly there must be a link between the evaporation of trust and whether parents want their children to take up the sport or watch it?
SC: “When I set off on the path of reform I had two groups absolutely at the top of my list in order to protect and preserve and create confidence. The first was the clean athletes – if we’re in a system where no one cares if athletes are clean or not, then we’re in the knacker’s yard. The other group are parents. They have a huge impact on the sport their kids take up. We can’t have parents and grandparents thinking: ‘Hmm, maybe athletics isn’t the sport for us because there is going to be a risk that at the age of 16 or 17 you’re going to have an unscrupulous coach or a chancer agent saying there is a shortcut to doing what most of us have done cleanly for most of our athletics career.’ They were the two groups those reforms were absolutely aimed at.”
In today’s fragmented world with so many choices open to young people, can athletics ever be among the top three or four sports in the country again?
SC: “I don’t know. If I’m being honest maybe not. But there is a great deal we can do to restore support and trust in the sport. We have to be more innovative, we have to be braver and more creative in formats. The first thing I said when I became president was that we have to think differently. The Australians did. They came forward with Nitro. It’s not going to be the universal panacea. You might not see elimination miles in London this summer or the Olympics in 2020, but there are some clues there. There was better athlete engagement, the event was over in just over two hours, the stadium didn’t look like a car boot sale. You were focusing on one event per moment and young people seemed excited. In a country hemorrhaging athletics support, we had full stadiums. Are we going to get back to the point where the Nine O’Clock News breaks into a world record attempt of mine in 1981? Possibly not. But there is a lot more we can do to be more relevant and more exciting. We’ve got to be brave about it.”
Why hasn’t the sport evolved?
SC: “The sport has been too beltway. We’ve spoken to each other. I won the English Schools title 44 years ago and the format hasn’t changed. I’m pretty much watching the same format over the same period of time. I can’t think of any sport that’s remained inviolate to change for that amount of time. Twenty20 has done it well, look at Rugby Sevens. Look at Formula-E. Even watching Chelsea the other day, I noticed the player of the match was selected by the fans. To say Usain Bolt, probably the most recognisable athlete on the planet, doesn’t get into the top 30 on Snapchat or Instagram is pretty insightful.”
How can you cope without Usain Bolt?
SC: “We need to work harder to make sure that the Wayde van Niekerks, the David Rudishas and the Valerie Adamses are being given the horsepower to help fill the void. But there is going to be a void, no doubt about it. No one immediately found a replacement for Muhammad Ali but plenty of great boxers came along in his wake. There isn’t going to be another Usain Bolt for some time but there are things we can do to lessen the impact of that loss.”
These are practical things. What about the more philosophical impact of the cynicism that now surrounds your sport and others? Has it gone too far?
SC: “No, it hasn’t. Sport has gone through what global financial organisations have been through, the Church, the royal family. That’s what sport has been through and we have to adjust to it. What sport hasn’t properly understood is that the basis of power has changed. My federation was founded in 1912 and I only had five predecessors. It will come as huge relief to my family that I don’t intend to be there for 31 years. I think what sport hasn’t properly understood is that the average CEO probably only stays for five years. You need oxygen and you need change. You need a churn of people coming in and you need outsiders coming in. Sport doesn’t have the monopoly of wisdom and it does need to reach out. We’re not too far down the road to make sure we put the right things in place to hold on to the upper ground.”
The London Stadium will be sold out this summer for the world athletics championships. But a lot of the great things about London 2012 have been undercut by cynicism. Do people feel differently about cycling and athletics than they did then?
SC: “They probably do. But I don’t think that’s a permanent shift. The point I’d make more broadly is that, yes, people want higher standards in sport. People want higher standards in business, in schools, in politics, probably in their own families most of the time. That’s a natural human instinct. But I also think people are capable of saying that by a distance sport has more to offer than the challenges confronting it. We do something in society that no other area does.”
Does it matter if someone feels differently about Mo Farah or Bradley Wiggins, given the allegations against them?
SC: “I would rather people felt complete comfort that what they are watching is legitimate. The only thing I’d say is that they have, with some justification, should have a greater confidence in what they’re watching than 20 or 30 years ago. Systems are better. We are discussing it and we wouldn’t have been 20 or 30 years ago. We can go back 10 years and take medals off people. If you don’t go fishing, you can’t catch fish. I’d rather have the embarrassment of some high profile positives and uncovering some uncomfortable things than sitting there in gentle decline. I’d rather encounter it front on.”
When we’re back in the Olympic Stadium this summer, will you reflect on the difficulties of the Olympic legacy?
SC: “We are making a difference. I went to the Olympic Park the other day to watch one of my daughters play in a schools hockey tournament. The place was heaving. The stadium was being used, the swimming pool was full, there were queues of people trying to get into the velodrome, you couldn’t get a court at the tennis centre and there were schools playing on the hockey pitches. Affordable housing, families, life in an area that didn’t have that. Inspire a generation wasn’t just getting more people to participate, it was about improving elite level sport. We go from London to Rio as the only city that has gone on to secure a bigger medal haul four years later. That has clearly inspired a generation.”
The British & Irish Lions tour is approaching the rugby equivalent of Amen Corner. Negotiate the trip’s all-important middle fortnight successfully and anything becomes possible down the closing stretch. Get it wrong and, as with professional golfers who drop shots at Augusta’s pivotal holes, it can be hard to restore sufficient equilibrium.
Hence the reason the penultimate midweek game against the Highlanderson Tuesday, before the first Test on Saturday week, carries more significance than might seem obvious at first glance. The Lions badly want to maintain the momentum generated by their victory against the Crusaders and numerous examples exist of spirited ‘dirt-trackers’ playing key roles in successful tours.
It is particularly true in New Zealand, where every Lions performance is mercilessly picked over, whether it involves a second-string team or not. Memories of the 1993 Lions’ heavy midweek defeats by Hawke’s Bay and Waikato still linger and Gavin Hastings’ team also lost 37-24 against Otago in the build-up to the first Test. Martin Bayfield, Will Carling and Scott Hastings were all injured and the Test series ended in frustrating defeat.
If there is one key difference today it is that the Lions management are conscious of the mistakes of past expeditions. With two more demanding fixtures against the NZ Maori and the Chiefs also preceding the first Test with the All Blacks at Eden Park, Warren Gatland has made a point of ensuring every player feels at least vaguely in the frame for Test recognition. His assistant coach, Andy Farrell, has also emphasised the need to maintain a positive outlook, rather than be simply remembered as whingeing tourists.
With so little time to prepare and so much to cram in on the training ground, the Lions made a pact before flying out not to be dragged down by negative factors they cannot control. “The one thing we discussed before we left is that there is no bitching or moaning about anything,” Farrell said. “This is the schedule and you get on with it. That is what touring is all about. You have to embrace it. Preparation is never ideal but there will be no whingeing about it on this tour. We will not accept that.”
Instead they have listened to local complaints about scrummaging, refereeing and dull tactics with quiet enjoyment and Farrell’s nonchalant response – “They have to talk about something” – sums up the squad’s collective view that deeds rather than words will define this tour. That applies, from Farrell’s perspective, to the midweek team every bit as much as the Test side. “We enjoyed Saturday and what I would have felt if I was sat in the stand watching is a sense of excitement. I would want to get out there and build on it. It’s about making sure we are going in the right direction and improving until we get to the Test matches.”
Beneath the fixed roof of the Forsyth Barr stadium – the atmospheric modern replacement for the old, forbidding ‘House of Pain’ at Carisbrook – the priority will be to counter the Highlanders’ fast-tempo style which bears similarities to what awaits in the Tests. “We’ve got to be in control of how we want to play the game and be ready for them to hit us at breakneck speed,” said Farrell, who helped to mastermind Ireland’s victory against New Zealand in Chicago last autumn. “This is the type of test we want because that’s exactly what the All Blacks are fantastic at. We want to keep the ball rolling.”
A key element against a Highlanders team who have been scoring an average of four tries per game will be the Lions’ proactive defence, with Farrell still on the lookout for on-field lieutenants capable of constructing an even more impregnable wall. “It ain’t about just sprinting off the line, it’s about adapting to the situation,” Farrell said. “It’s about numbers on feet and covering space. I thought our decision-making was very good last Saturday.
“I’m still looking for defensive leaders. I think everyone should be a leader in defence because, if somebody messes up, everyone pays for it. I’m still looking for people to grab hold of the system and take it forward. We’ll see who steps up.”
The Lions are keen to underline their attacking ability on a hard, fast track but over the next fortnight much will also hinge on keeping their own try-line intact.
British & Irish Lions J Payne; J Nowell, J Joseph, R Henshaw, T Seymour; D Biggar, R Webb; J Marler, R Best, K Sinckler, C Lawes, I Henderson, J Haskell, S Warburton (capt), CJ Stander. Replacements K Owens, J McGrath, D Cole, AW Jones, J Tipuric, G Laidlaw, O Farrell, E Daly.
Highlanders R Buckman; W Naholo, M Fekitoa, T Walden, T Li; L Sopoaga, K Hammington; D Lienert-Brown, L Coltman, S Tokolahi, A Ainley, J Hemopo, G Evans, D Hunt, L Whitelock (capt). Replacements G Pleasants-Tate, A Seiuli, S Halanukonuka, J Dickson, J Lentjes, J Renton, M Banks, P Osborne.
Referee A Gardner (Australia).
England’s Champions Trophy semi-final opponents on Wednesday will be Pakistan, who contrived a harum-scarum victory against Sri Lanka in Cardiff.
They won by three wickets when chasing a modest target of 237 but they needed an unbroken 75-run eighth‑wicket partnership – aided by dropped catches by the Sri Lankans – from the captain, Sarfraz Ahmed, and Mohammad Amir to secure their progress in the tournament. The last time Pakistan played England in Cardiff, in September 2016, they won so Sarfraz declared “confidence is high” before the semi-final.
“England are a world‑class team. They have been very good for the last two years. So we must play more positively against them,” he said. “Today our bowlers did very well at crucial times, I’m concerned by our middle order but we will sit down tomorrow and sort those problems out.
“All credit goes to the bowlers, Junaid [Khan] and Amir played very well. I’m very impressed with Fakhar [Zaman], too. He is a good prospect.” Sarfraz is a relatively new captain but is relishing the task. “I’m really boosted by my innings [61 not out],” he said.
Pakistan were expected to defeat Sri Lanka but they will not be favourites against an in-form England and Sarfraz implied that this would offer his side more freedom as the underdogs. Sarfraz will be free to take on the tournament hosts despite being fined 20% of his match fee, while his team-mates were fined 10% for their slow over‑rate against Sri Lanka.
An Argentina side boasting a midfield trio of Juan Román Riquelme, Esteban Cambiasso and Pablo Aimar and a defence featuring Walter Samuel won their second consecutive Under-20 World Cup, using José Peckerman’s floating 3-5-2 formation to devastating effect in Malaysia. Argentina’s top scorer, Bernado Romeo, despite playing alongside future Serie A, La Liga, Champions League and Copa Libertadores winners, did not enjoy such a distinguished career, managing four caps for the national side in a career that came to an underwhelming end in 2012 at San Lorenzo.
A far cry from the golden generation of Spanish footballers that would dominate the late 2000s, the team’s attack was led by Pablo Couñago, a man more closely associated with the Tractor Boys than tiki-taka. While Couñago now plies his trade at the Spanish fourth-tier club Alondras CF, his then team-mates Xavi Hernández and Iker Casillas boast seven Champions Leagues, 13 domestic titles and 300 caps between them to go alongside World Cup and European Championship winners’ medals. Couñago never received a Spain call-up.

Javier Saviola won the Golden Ball and the Golden Boot, following a record 11 goals in seven games. The youngest player on Pelé’s list of the 125 greatest living footballers in 2004, he won league titles in Spain, Portugal and Greece as well as a Copa Libertadores at his boyhood club, River Plate. Portsmouth fans may remember his team-mate Andrés D’Alessandro, who played for the club on loan from Wolfsburg. Both went on to star in an Argentina side who claimed gold at the 2004 Olympic Games and finished runners-up in the Copa América of the same year.

In a team featuring Dani Alves and Fernandinho, Dudu Cearense was arguably Brazil’s oustanding player, scoring four in seven games in the United Arab Emirates. Dudu’s journeyman career has taken him to Japan, France, Russia and Greece, while Alves’s career at Sevilla, Barcelona, and now Juventus has led many to consider him the greatest full‑back of all time. The Golden Ball went to the UAE’s Ismail Matar, who has spent his career in his homeland with Al-Wahda (bar a two‑game loan at Al-Sadd in Qatar).

Following in a proud tradition of Argentinian attacking talent, this tournament gave a glimpse into the future superstardom of Lionel Messi. Like Saviola before him, he claimed the Golden Ball and Boot as La Selección continued their dominance of the competition. With a record five Ballon d’Or victories, Messi has more than lived up to the hype. Maybe there is hope for 2017’s Golden Ball winner, Dominic Solanke.

Another victory for Argentina and another player secured the Golden Boot and Golden Ball double, this time Sergio Agüero. The striker, having played 84 minutes in the previous tournament, delivered with aplomb, scoring six times, including the opener in the final. Whereas Agüero has developed into one of the world’s most feared strikers, the other goalscorer in the final in Toronto, Mauro Zárate, has seen his career stall following a series of poor transfers.
Breaking the South American monopoly, and claiming Africa’s first and to date only Under-20 World Cup title, Ghana were powered to the title by Dominic Adiyiah’s eight goals in seven games and overcame a much fancied Brazil on penalties in the final. Adiyiah’s career has been a case of could have been but never really was. A move after the tournament to Milan, for whom he failed to make a start, was followed by a rapid decline as he failed to score for four clubs. A move to Thailand has seen Adiyiah return to the score sheet, with 38 goals in 58 games for Nakhon Ratchasima – a far cry from the San Siro.

An Oscar hat-trick in the final inspired Brazil to their fifth Under-20 World Cup victory, one shy of Argentina. Although the former Chelsea man impressed in that game, Fifa’s player of the tournament was Henrique with five goals in seven games. As seems to be the case with non-Argentinian Golden Ball winners, though, Henrique’s career has been disappointing. He has played for eight teams at the age of 26, his only prolific spell coming in 2015 at Coritiba, where he managed 12 in 20. Danilo and Casemiro have gone on to great success at Real Madrid and Alex Sandro has proved to be the perfect foil for Alves at Juventus.
A team containing Paul Pogba, Samuel Umtiti, Geoffrey Kondogbia and Kurt Zouma ensured France were the first nation to win all five Fifa tournaments in men’s 11-a-side international football. Pogba’s performances came a year after his free transfer to Juventus, where he would become one of the world’s most sought-after midfielders, before returning to Manchester United for a record fee. Pogba’s career is in stark contrast to that of Paul Charrau, who is on loan at Ligue 2’s Paris FC.
An unfancied Serbia defeated a Brazil side containing Gabriel Jesus, delivering a first success to the Balkans since the breakup of Yugoslavia. The goalkeeper Predrag Rajkovic and midfielder Andrija Živkovic secured individual honours, with the former claiming the Golden Gloves award after Serbia conceded three goals all tournament and the latter winning goal of the tournament for his free-kick against Mexico. Zivkovic is the next great hope for Serbian football, holding the record for the youngest player to represent his country and recently winning a domestic treble with Benfica. Rajkovic has established himself at Maccabi Tel Aviv.
Here’s an argument for the office this week: this is the most unpredictable and engrossing season of AFL football ever. Discuss. If we limit the frame of reference to the weekend just gone, it is an easy argument to make.
Usually come winter the herd begins to thin, but after a weekend where Brisbane dismantled Fremantle, Essendon humiliated Port Adelaide and the 17th-placed Carlton wrung out a win and a great deal of fun against second-placed Greater Western Sydney, evaluating anything this season can be done just as effectively by shaking a Magic 8 Ball as it can be by watching hours of film.
In the twilight of Saturday, two days after re-signing forward Josh Schache, the hitherto unloved Brisbane Lions played like a club set free from heavy chains – although Dayne Zorko has hardly been bound this year, metaphorically or otherwise. Through 12 weeks, the Brisbane best-and-fairest winner is the only player not named Dusty or Dangerfield to have averaged more than 25 possessions, five clearances and a goal a game. By half-time on Saturday, he’d already racked up 19, eight and one respectively.
In the “traditional” football states, the 5ft 9in Zorko is like one of those slightly distorted airport announcements you don’t quite catch but suspect might be important. There is no doubting his importance to Brisbane, just as there is no doubt that to break through for a thumping 57-point win after a run of nine losses matters to a young group like the Lions.
“At some point in time you need to get some emotional nourishment for the group and we were able to get that tonight,” said Brisbane coach Chris Fagan. “We’ve still got a long way to go, but that’s the brand we want to play.”
One club that knows a little about “brand” is Essendon, and on Saturday they went some way to re-establishing their on-field reputation with a dominating performance against Port Adelaide that only the most partisan Bomber fans would have seen coming – and even most of them would not have anticipated what they saw from Cale Hooker.
Hooker won Essendon’s best-and-fairest as a defender in 2015, but has been a point of fan frustration and online forum contention this year due to John Worsfold’s persistence in playing him forward. It can’t have been much fun for Hooker going from the key man down back to being the support act up forward, but after five first-half goals, there was no doubting who was the star among many at Etihad Stadium on Saturday night.
But there is something of Sisyphus in Essendon. Jobe Watson, Zach Merrett and Anthony McDonald-Tipungwuti play in an exciting, daring fashion that delights the football world, and then their fans boo Port Adelaide’s Paddy Ryder every time he touches the ball.
Having initially expressed a desire to remain with the Bombers during the supplements saga, the scrutiny eventually wore Ryder down and he requested a trade at the end of 2014.
That Ryder served a 12-month ban last year along with 33 of his former team-mates should’ve been enough to provide some perspective to those Essendon fans that booed. Then again, if a concern raised last week by former Bomber Nathan Lovett-Murray over the health of his daughter (who was conceived after the Bombers’ 2012 supplement program) was not enough to provide a sympathetic disposition, than the cause is likely a lost one.
Sympathy and the Carlton Football Club have been strangers for some time, but in the dying light of Sunday afternoon, even neutral football fans were willing them to a win against Greater Western Sydney.
In most sports there exists a proxy war between proponents of the high-octane offence practiced by the Giants and traditionalists who insist that such systems inevitably falter to a superior defence. The traditionalist line of thinking isn’t as easily marketable for a club in the early days of a rebuild, but just because it’s not an easy sell doesn’t mean that it’s not worth buying – and the Blues’ players and supporters have bought in.
The primordial game style from which the Carlton reinvention is evolving is built around a defensive structure (of which former Giants, Lachie Plowman and Caleb Marchbank are important pieces) that could one day see Brendon Bolton receive Queen’s Birthday honours for his work as football’s foremost civil engineer. Although it must be said that Carlton’s defensive structure is built on one of the game’s most fundamental of principles – the spare man.
On Sunday, the Giants midfielders won almost twice as many clearances and blew Carlton’s doors off for inside 50s. Yet the Blues were able to absorb just about everything the Giants threw at them and then swing to attack through the agency of Sam Docherty. That Docherty is regularly spoken as an All-Australian half-back-flanker is of no surprise to those who’ve watched his progress during the past two years. That Liam Jones was spoken of as an influential defender is a surprise. In a list of adjectives likely to be ascribed to Jones, “influential” falls somewhere well below “flakey.” After an indifferent career as a forward and navy blue whipping boy, Jones was impressive at reading the play, flew confidently into packs and at hit a target with all but one of his 14 possessions.
But if any one player personified the passion in Carlton’s gritty one-point win, it was 150th-gamer Matthew Kruezer. And if there was one play that personified the man those at the club call “Tractor” it was the one with 11 minutes to go in the last quarter when he barrelled over his opponent, followed up and kicked the ball off the ground 40 metres into the arms of Dale Thomas who set up Matthew Wright for what would prove a crucial goal. It was another example of how Kruezer plays football as though it is the central trouble of his life – so much so that you suspect the feeling he gets from busting through packs will stick with him like a phantom-limb sensation long after his football career is over. But given the 28-year-old is in career-best form, you suspect there’s a fair bit of football to play out yet.
And there’s plenty to play out in this most unpredictable of seasons. Wins on the weekend from Carlton, Brisbane and Essendon were less an act of footballing rug pulling than an alteration of perspective. There is no such thing as a certainty in such an unpredictable season – and Monday’s game between Melbourne and Collingwood in front of more than 70,000 at the MCG provided further proof of that.
In what was undeniably one of the games of the season, Melbourne seemed headed for a listless defeat that played into every tired ski-season stereotype before kicking six goals to two in the third quarter to set up an anxious final quarter. It also set the stage for Jack Watts to once and for all exorcise his debut demons from the same game eight years ago, when the Pies targeted the physically and mentally ill-prepared first draft pick. Paul Roos, the coach who Watts credits for his decision to stay at Melbourne, still believes Watts’s debut was not one of merit, but by virtue of a marketing stunt – one that backfired not just for the club, but for arguably a large part of Watts’s oft-criticised career.
With 90 seconds to go and less than a kick in it, Watts grabbed the ball just outside Melbourne’s 50-metre arc, took a bounce and calmly kicked the sealer from an angle acute enough for Melbourne supporters to ride every one of its 25 metres with hearts in mouths. Having played the role of Melbourne’s unlikely saviour, Watts extended his arms with an emotion that the confines of the English language could barely do justice.
It was a fitting finale to a round that was, yes… the most unpredictable and engrossing – the latest instalment in a year of AFL football that has been illustrative of the broader context of our times, which are for want of a better term, an uncertain and unholy mess.
Rafael Nadal made an observation in Paris about his philosophy on life that sounded innocuous enough to dip below the radar of those who were correctly more concerned with the history he had just created but it describes perfectly why he is playing some of the best tennis of his career.
His words reveal, too, that the 31-year-old Spaniard, who has suffered more injuries than is good for his long-term health, is not done just yet.
“Very organised people, very proactive people, know exactly what they’re going to do next,” Nadal said after looking about as organised as is possible on a tennis court in demolishing Stan Wawrinka in three sets to win his 10th French Open. “I do things as they come. Right now, I don’t really know. I’m just going to keep on playing as long as it makes me happy. If one day I get up in the morning and I’m no longer motivated to go train, well, I guess that day I will put an end to my career. You know what? I’m not worried. I’m a happy person.”
Like his oldest rival, Roger Federer, he is playing with the sort of freedom known only to the very young and those who have seen it all.
It is a joy that might carry Nadal to his first Wimbledon final in seven years. He might even win for the third time there. Or, as he admits, he could just as easily fall early if his unreliable knees do not adapt quickly to the peculiar demands of grass, as they did when he lost to the world No100, Lukas Rosol, in the second round in 2012.
Nadal, more than most players, has endured extended periods of struggle, when his love for the game has been tested. He almost expects them to return.
In 2005 his emotions were dragged in all directions. He met his long-time girlfriend, Maria Francisca Perello, and won the first of the 10 French championships that set him on his journey to La Decima on Sunday, as well as an unprecedented decade of winning at least one slam every year.
However, 2005 was also the year that structural weaknesses surfaced in his feet and knees and they have plagued him, to a great or lesser degree, ever since. He has been struck down in 2006, 2009, 2012 and 2014.
In 2013 he came back from nearly eight months out to heal ruptured patellar tendons and won two majors among 10 titles and posted 75 match victories. It was an astonishing achievement. Bjorn Borg, no slouch on the dirt, was moved to call him “the greatest clay-court player to ever play”. Carlos Moyá, who has since joined him as eventual coaching successor to uncle Toni, described him as “a warrior”. Jimmy Connors remarked at the time: “His passion and the way he grinds is really something special.”
Because he can play no other way it is easy to take this commitment for granted, without wondering about the price he pays. Last year he had to quit the French Open after two quick wins because of a wrist injury. Only this season has he begun to resemble the old Nadal. If he looks commanding and fierce on court – so deep in “the zone” Nadal rarely reacts to extraneous activity – he sometimes appears uncertain of himself. Eight times in one answer on Sunday evening, he used the word “doubts”. For a long time he had pronounced it “doobts”. He knows how to say it now and he has a proper grasp of its essence.
“I have been very honest with you all the time,” he said. “I have doubts every day. If you have no doubts, probably [it] is because you are too arrogant. I don’t consider myself arrogant.”
What might surprise Nadal, however, is that there is a groundswell of worthwhile opinion saying he can win Wimbledon again. It would be on a par with Federer’s win in Melbourne this year, when he beat Nadal in the final. Even so, nobody – not even uncle Toni or his understudy Moyá – would previously have suggested Nadal could conquer the All England Club’s grass again.
He told the English-speaking press on Sunday: “I love grass, everybody knows, and it’s a surface that I really enjoyed a lot playing there.” However, he said to Spanish reporters later: “Grass is not my speciality, but I’m very motivated.”
He nonetheless reminded everyone when beating Wawrinka 6-2, 6-3, 6-1 that clay fits the script for a natural clay-courter who has rediscovered his killing top-spun forehand and now owns a backhand that is nearly as lethal. If he stays fit and healthy, he could win another two or three titles in Paris, putting him beyond reach in the record books. That might also haul him alongside Federer on 18 majors – although there is no sign the Swiss has finished collecting big silverware. If Nadal rules clay again, Federer likewise is ready to retake his Wimbledon crown. What a story it would be if the draw kept them apart until the last Sunday.
It is nine years since Nadal won possibly the best final in the history of grand slam tennis, when, over five sets of almost unbearable intensity, he deconstructed Federer’s elegance with the sheer power of his will, it seemed.
Before they arrived at that 2008 Wimbledon they played in the final at Roland Garros. Nadal won 6–1, 6–3, 6–0. It was one of the most humiliating experiences of Federer’s career. Now Wawrinka has felt the French heat of Nadal before Wimbledon. It would be foolish to predict the Spanish master could not do that double again.
The debate over whether medals have been prized over morals in Olympic sport has been escalated by the revelation that talented young women training with a view to sporting glory now allege they were sexually abused in pursuit of their dream.
British Canoeing and the police are currently investigating the claims. These were sportswomen who put their trust in a coach who they claim took advantage of them in the most deplorable way. Once more it gives rise to serious questions about duty of care for athletes, a discussion which will reignite on Wednesday with the long awaited publication of the independent report into the culture at British Cycling that was sparked by claims of bullying and discrimination first made by the cyclist Jess Varnish.
It has been 14 months since Varnish claimed the then performance director Shane Sutton cruelly advised she “get on with having a baby” after she was ditched from the high performance squad. He also remarked her bottom was “too big” to ride certain roles on the team.
The affair took a further twist when an independent British Cycling review that cleared Sutton of eight of nine charges was itself found to have “sanitised” the findings of its grievance officer by a leaked UK Sport commissioned report, the final version of which will be released this week.
Disabled riders said they had been referred to as “wobblies” and “gimp”, with the six-time Paralympic champion Darren Kenny claiming he felt so bruised by his experiences with British Cycling that he could not bear to display his medals publicly at home. Sutton denied the claims.
But Kenny’s sadness in the face of enormous success raises a potent point about whether the joy of sport was lost in a relentless clamour for more shiny metal to wave around. And of whether UK Sport, the funding body that allocated millions of pounds of exchequer and lottery money, should have asked robust questions about safeguarding, mental health and athlete representation.
The independent report is expected to make uncomfortable reading for the governing body, British Cycling, discovering over the course of more than 90 separate interviews that many riders and staff felt bullied and discriminated against. But it is also expected to criticise the funding agency UK Sport for failing to demand accountability, missing opportunities to identify management shortcomings at British Cycling years earlier and to spare much heartache.
It is not just cycling and canoeing, two of Britain’s best funded Olympic sports – in receipt of more than £50m between them over the last four-year cycle – conducting internal investigations. British Swimming is looking into claims of bullying made by Paralympic athletes. An elite coach was alleged to have belittled and criticised athletes, leading to a “culture of fear”.
Meanwhile medical staff at GB Taekwondo raised concerns with UK Sport over coaches’ practices with regard to concussion, weight loss and training loads, including suggestions that athletes were asked to train in saunas. According to UK Sport, an independent review found insufficient evidence to support the allegations.
It is not overblown to say UK Sport is in the midst of a crisis. The contrast with medal-based success is stark. In Rio British athletes had their best ever medal haul. While there is clearly much good being done behind the scenes – world-class facilities, coaching and an enviable attention to detail in training and competition – there is a case for the “no compromise” model to be reviewed entirely.
The idea of “no compromise” was minted by Peter Keen, who set in motion the “marginal gains” led transformation at British Cycling in 1998 and five years later oversaw its introduction to Olympic sport as a whole. It was enormously successful. Great Britain catapulted up the world standings, from 36th place and a solitary gold at the Atlanta Olympics of 1996 to second behind only the USA last summer.
The accompanying lottery money allowed athletes to devote themselves entirely to their training, paying for accommodation, food and a range of support services, from physiotherapy to sports science and nutrition.
Alongside that a performance director culture took hold, whereby one individual was given power to run his or her programme with relative autonomy. Varnish said it was a case of a select few at the top of British Cycling having ultimate power to decide on the future of athletes. She maintains the decision not to renew her contract was personal rather than an objective assessment of ability and potential, while there was scant opportunity for recourse.
Baroness Tanni Grey-Thompson, an 11-time Paralympic champion, conducted a government-ordered year-long review into duty of care which was published in April. It had seven broad recommendations, one of which was to create a Sport Ombudsman with the power to hold national governing bodies to account for duty-of-care failings.
It also suggested that the British Athletes Commission, an organisation which supports athletes who feel they have no route for making complaints to their own governing body, be independently funded by the government. It is presently funded by UK Sport which presents its own, perceived if not real, problems of conflict of interest.
If Grey-Thompson’s proposed reforms are acted on, it will go some way to making sure athlete welfare has the same gold standard as Great Britain’s Olympic performance.
It rains on a ticker-tape parade to remind England’s Under-20s that it will be easier to conquer the world than the obstacles that litter their path to regular Premier League football but they can take comfort from the roots of their triumph in South Korea. Sunday’s World Cup success, England’s best return on the international stage since 1966, repaid a willingness of the Football Association and Premier League to act on concerns over youth development in this country. A change in attitude at Premier League clubs could bring further reward.
Lewis Cook, the England captain, had only just hoisted aloft the Under‑20s World Cup following victory against Venezuela in Suwon when the debate began over the future prospects for Paul Simpson’s players – with a tone of inevitable, understandable foreboding.
The 13 players who featured in the final for England ran up a combined total of 1,094 minutes in the Premier League last season, roughly the equivalent of 12 matches, with Cook having the most, with 431 minutes in the Bournemouth midfield. The match-winner Dominic Calvert‑Lewin, only the third Englishman to score in a World Cup final, comes next with 346 minutes for Everton followed by his club-mate Ademola Lookman on 287. The time then slips away to Josh Onomah’s 17 minutes for Tottenham Hotspur while seven of those who played on Sunday did not play a single minute of Premier League football last season.
The suspicion that the final could have been as good as it gets for some in the England team deepened when the goalkeeper Freddie Woodman, fresh from making a fine and crucial late penalty save, admitted that his future at Newcastle United was uncertain having spent last season on loan at Kilmarnock in the Scottish Premiership.
Those playing statistics are indicative of a league where financial pressures and incentives do not encourage patient development and risks on young talent; and of a competition where some owners are more concerned with grabbing additional money from the broadcasting revenue pool than the international fortunes of what to many is a foreign land. But the efforts to clear the pathway for homegrown talent in the Premier League cannot be dismissed with England the world champions at under-20 level, even if the long-term benefits are yet to be seen at senior level.
For the FA victory in South Korea rewards its decision to bring uniformity to England coaching at all age levels, to seek greater cooperation with Premier League coaches and to improve team cohesion via their St George’s Park base. Six of Sunday’s squad featured in England’s European Championship success at under-17 level in 2014 with four – the Golden Ball winner Dominic Solanke, Jonjoe Kenny, Woodman and Josh Onomah – starting against Venezuela. More recent and arguably more important changes have taken place within the Premier League as it attempts to counter accusations it is to blame for England’s lamentable record.
England has not had a problem in the past producing talent that can deliver up to under-18 level. The problem, articulated by a procession of Premier League managers, is the lack of competitive opportunities for players in the 18-21 age bracket. “Spain are developing men at that age while England’s players become overprotected,” said one. There appears little to no chance of the Football League allowing Premier League ‘B’ teams into its midst, as in Spain, but competition has improved at that age level following consultations with leading coaches in recent years.
Last season brought the introduction of Premier League 2 as a replacement for the under-21 Premier League, exposing youngsters to competition against under-23s, relegation and promotion between the two divisions and play-offs in the second tier. It was not a cure-all by any means but a start and one that ended with Everton winning the title before sending five players off to the Under-20 World Cup. There was also a 20% increase in playing time for homegrown debutants in the Premier League last season, 716 minutes on average, compared with 596 minutes in 2015-16.
David Unsworth, Everton’s under-23s coach, played for England when they finished third at the 1993 Under-20 World Cup and was one of four from that squad to graduate to the senior side. He was a rare voice in support of the much-criticised Checkatrade Trophy last season, arguing that any competition that heightens pressure on academy players should be embraced. But ultimately, he insists, it is individual quality that will determine how many of Simpson’s squad establish themselves in the Premier League.
“They have to enjoy this moment because it can be once in a lifetime,” said Unsworth. “They should enjoy it and go away and rest. Then they need to come back flying for pre-season – and I’m sure they will. All five of them are great lads and are desperate to be part of what is going on at our club. They have to keep proving themselves. Just because they have come through our ranks it doesn’t mean they have a divine right to play in our first team. They need to prove it every single day in training and they need to earn their places. They’ll all give it their best to get there.”
It encourages Calvert-Lewin, Lookman and Kenny, whose performances in South Korea showed Everton do not need to enter the transfer market this summer to sign cover for the injured Séamus Coleman, that Ronald Koeman was prepared to trust the club’s young talent last season. The same goes for Mauricio Pochettino at Tottenham but it needs many more to follow suit for England’s world champions to build on their achievement. “English football people say you have to look out for young players, that maybe they can play 15 or 20 games but not more,” Koeman said last season. “They are afraid.” Sunday offered an alternative.
There have been higher-quality games of cricket in this tournament but none yet with such a taut finish. Beyond the dropped catches (there were plenty of those) and the overthrows and the wanton strokes there was at the end of Cardiff’s sunniest day so far the wonderful tension that knock-out cricket can generate.
At the end of it all Pakistan scraped to a victory that should have been so much more straightforward. They won by three wickets but they needed an eighth-wicket partnership of 75 between their captain, Sarfraz Ahmed, and Mohammad Amir to get them over the line. Sarfraz produced a captain’s innings of 61 not out but he was badly dropped on 38 and less culpably on 40 as Sri Lanka faltered in the field in the closing overs.
This victory means that England will meet Pakistan in Cardiff in the first semi‑final on Wednesday. They may be happy about that for the surface here seems to suit some of their team (their bowlers if not their batsmen).
There has not been much encouragement for bowlers in this tournament but the likelihood of some lateral movement for the fast men has been greater in Wales than in England. There may not be much pace in the pitches in Cardiff but good bowlers have sporadically found some movement. In earlier games Tim Southee, Liam Plunkett and Mark Wood have gained some assistance from grass, which Eoin Morgan has described as “thatchy”.
Pakistan, especially with the introduction of Junaid Khan as a replacement for the volatile Wahab Riaz alongside Amir and Hasan Ali, now have a triumvirate of pace bowlers who seem adept at exploiting any help. Hence they may be more dangerous opponents for England than Sri Lanka might have been.
Their pace trio were effective on Monday. Between them they took eight wickets with the debutant seamer Fahim Ashraf also picking up two. Such conditions favour Pakistan’s style of play. They are not so well equipped to chase the mega-totals as their batting lineup may be described as old-fashioned – with the exception of the newcomer Fakhar Zaman, a left-hander who wastes no time. But mega-totals in Cardiff are not guaranteed.
On a cloudy, mercifully dry day Sri Lanka were restricted to a modest total of 236. Amir and Junaid combined to puncture the Sri Lankan effort, taking four wickets for six runs in four overs. Hence the innings subsided to 167 for seven and beyond significant restoration even though Asela Gunaratne and Suranga Lakmal managed to raise the target to 237.
Sri Lanka looked to be on target for many more. After the early loss of Danushka Gunathilaka, Niroshan Dickwella and Kusal Mendis combined to add 56 enchanting runs. One ramp over the wicketkeeper’s head by Dickwella off Junaid was a shot of startling impudence and skill; Kusal Mendis oozed quality in a more orthodox manner.
However, Mendis was defeated by a lethal in-ducker from Hasan Ali and Dinesh Chandimal dragged his second ball on to his stumps. Now Angelo Mathews expertly resuscitated the innings alongside Dickwella so that Sarfraz summoned up his opening bowlers in tandem.
Mathews, maybe surprised by extra pace from Amir, was bowled off the inside edge; Dhananjaya de Silva nicked a beauty from Junaid, a fierce introduction to the tournament for a man who has only just been called up as a replacement for Kusal Perera. Next Dickwella was brilliantly caught by Sarfraz from an inside edge; the Pakistan captain was swamped by his colleagues in their excitement and in their recognition that this was an extraordinary one-handed take. Thisara Perera soon followed as the heart was ripped out of the Sri Lankan innings.
The Sri Lankan attack does not possess the same potency but theirs is a team of granite resolve. When Pakistan were 74 without loss in the 12th over the game seemed over. But some spirited bowling and panicky Pakistan batting soon put a stop to that notion.
At the start of the chase Fakhar, who has a licence to swing, drove lustily, taking three fours from a Lasith Malinga over with Azhar Ali a more watchful partner. Fakhar reached 50 from 34 balls and was promptly caught on the boundary. No matter; the older grafters would surely take Pakistan to their destination.
It is never that simple. Those grafters contrived to spoon and nick catches and the Sri Lankans under the calm leadership of Mathews started to believe. Pakistan plummeted to 137 for six with Sarfraz alone suggesting permanence. In came Fahim for his first international knock and the cricket acquired a technicolour tension. A bouncer from Malinga was hooked into the crowd by Fahim to get off the mark; another was top-edged wide of the long leg fielder. He was starting to enjoy this.
Perhaps the uncluttered novice would do the trick, as 25 runs were added rapidly. Then a firm straight drive from Sarfraz flicked the fingers of the bowler Perera before hitting the stumps. Fahim’s bat was over the line but not touching the turf and his dream was over.
Sarfraz and Amir stayed cool; Perera at mid-on then dropped a sitter after Malinga had duped Sarfraz, the biggest and most decisive mistake of an error-strewn yet rather magnificent match.
Mark Wood is revelling in his role as Eoin Morgan’s bubble-wrapped strike bowler and heads into Wednesday’s semi-final in Cardiff with chest puffed out from the faith that his captain is showing in him.
England’s near peril-free passage to the knockout stages of the Champions Trophy, one that sees the management mulling over just a single spot as Jonny Bairstow prepares to replace the misfiring Jason Roy, has owed much to a n on-song bowling attack that boasts Wood’s game-breaking 90mph missiles.
A career-best four for 33 against Australia on Saturday included the wickets of David Warner and Steve Smith, with two thirds of his deliveries dot balls, and was reward for a bowler who has battled back from a chronic ankle injury and whose pace and trajectory provides a point of difference in Morgan’s right-arm seam attack.
“It’s a nice feeling to have the confidence of the captain,” said Wood, who set up the group-winning performance against New Zealand with the wicket of their key man Kane Williamson. “Subconsciously I don’t know if it makes me try a little bit harder, but at the moment I seem to be getting some of the best players out. It’s a nice knack to have and hopefully I can keep it up.
“You lift up, push your shoulders back, puff your chest out a little bit, you feel like the captain really needs you and you want to be the man who changes the game.”
Wood has returned this summer after three bouts of ankle surgery but with both pace and enthusiasm seemingly undimmed. Like Simon Jones in 2005 – another skiddy and hostile fast bowler, if more strappingly built – there will always be fears over his longevity but the player himself has reported few ill-effects in this comeback. “My body is holding up really well, the backroom staff have been fantastic since I’ve come back,” said Wood, who has made subtle changes to his delivery stride and wears specially-designed boots to minimise pressure on his left ankle. “They roll me in sellotape and wrap me in bubble-wrap between games and hopefully I’ll be ready for the semi-final.”
Wood, along with Ben Stokes and Liam Plunkett’s role as a splice-thudding battering ram with some added smarts, is a reminder of the national team’s debt to Durham’s cricketing conveyor belt of talent.
“It’s great the north-east lads are the ones carrying the team at the minute,” said Wood, with a hint of mischief thrown in. “There’s always north-east pride. Being the only county a distance away from the others, we’ve always considered ourselves a tight-knit group at Durham.
“But this England group feel just as tight and together as that one. Everyone wants each other to do well, the lads who aren’t playing are pushing you to keep in the team and they genuinely want you to do well. We’ve got one hell of a team and I absolutely love being part of it.”
Wood has always spoken with a refreshing honesty and where some players may claim not to look too far ahead, the second Ashes-winning son of Ashington, after Stephen Harmison, is open about targetting this winter’s tour to Australia and the defence of the urn that was recaptured in 2015 when he detonated Nathan Lyon’s stumps at Trent Bridge.
“Am I thinking about it? Of course I am,” said Wood, who won the last of his eight Test caps on the 2015 tour of the UAE before the ankle was deemed in need of surgery. “If I can do well in a white-ball tournament like this, and then back it up by being consistent with the red ball [for Durham], I’d love to get back in the Test team.”
The expected absence of the side-strain afflicted Chris Woakes for the first two Tests against South Africa next month – and with Jimmy Anderson’s fitness not yet guaranteed following a groin tear – there will be a vacancy in Joe Root’s first side as captain.
England are clearly pondering Wood here, having made him available for just the opening fixture of the three-match Twenty20 series against the Proteas in Southampton on 21 June as part of a 16-man squad that has five uncapped players and sees Root, Stokes, Adil Rashid, Moeen Ali and Jake Ball all rested.
Root and co’s next cricket will be the floodlit County Championship round that begins on 26 June and provides both a return to the four-day groove before the first Test at Lord’s on 6 July and some valuable time playing time with the pink ball before England’s first day-night Test against West Indies later in the summer.
Mason Crane, the Hampshire leg-spinner who broke into the New South Wales team during the winter, has earned his first senior call-up along with the Lancashire’s thunderous batsman, Liam Livingstone. Craig Overton, the Somerset seamer, will replace Wood in the squad for the last two games at his home ground of Taunton and Cardiff.
Bairstow will play in the first two matches before returning to Yorkshire, while the uncapped Middlesex left-hander, Dawid Malan, earns a second squad place after going unused by England in their Twenty20s last summer but, like Livingstone, impressing for the Lions.
Tymal Mills, the left-arm quick who is the one short-form specialist, misses out due to his restrictive back complaint, with Surrey’s Tom Curran the fifth newbie as England look to widen their white-ball selection net at a time when the sun is already shining on the first team.
Jonathan Bairstow (Yorkshire) – Available for the first two matches of the series.
Sam Billings (Kent)
Jos Buttler (Lancashire)
Mason Crane (Hampshire)
Tom Curran (Surrey)
Liam Dawson (Hampshire)
Alex Hales (Nottinghamshire)
Chris Jordan (Sussex)
Liam Livingstone (Lancashire)
Dawid Malan (Middlesex)
Eoin Morgan (Middlesex) Captain
Craig Overton (Somerset) – Available for the last two matches of the series.
Liam Plunkett (Yorkshire)
Jason Roy (Surrey)
David Willey (Yorkshire)
Mark Wood (Durham) – Available for the first match of the series.
Racegoers at Royal Ascot next week can look forward to the Queen being in attendance as usual, despite speculation on Monday that she might be forced to miss at least one of the first four days of the meeting if the state opening of parliament is postponed from Monday to later in the week.
The Queen has been an enthusiastic owner and breeder throughout her long reign and the royal meeting at Ascot in June is said to be the first engagement that goes into her diary each year. Officials at Ascot believe she has not missed a single day’s racing at the meetings since her coronation in June 1953.
The five-day meeting begins on Tuesday and any one of the first four days could now be the new date for the state opening of parliament, when the Queen’s speech to both houses of parliament, setting out the government’s plans for the new session, is the centrepiece of the ceremony.
Ascot racecourse never comments in advance on any issues that concern the Queen’s attendance. However, there is an obvious precedent for next week’s possible clash of engagements, as the state opening of parliament took place on the second day of the royal meeting in 2001. The Queen attended a rehearsal for the state opening on Tuesday and then delivered her speech the following day, before travelling to the racecourse by car and arriving in time for the first race.
The royal procession down the middle of the course in horse-drawn carriages, which normally takes place about half an hour before the first race at 2.30pm, did not take place on either afternoon as the horses involved had taken part in the ceremonies at Westminster. However, this year’s state opening is due to take place without the horse-drawn carriages, so a mid-morning slot for the Queen’s speech, which is in any case expected to be shorter than normal, could allow her to perform the ceremonial duties in the morning and a more recreational role in the afternoon.
At present the Queen has only two horses entered at next week’s meeting: Call To Mind, an outsider, in the King Edward VII Stakes on Friday and the strongly fancied Dartmouth, who is priced at around 9-2 to win the Group Two Hardwicke Stakes on Saturday’s closing card for the second year running.
Jenny Pitman, who saddled two Grand National winners during an outstanding training career, and the former leading Flat jockey Philip Robinson are among the 23 members of the British Horseracing Authority’s new Disciplinary Panel and Licensing Committee, which will be responsible for hearing disciplinary cases and imposing penalties where necessary from early next month.
Pitman and Robinson both responded to a call by the BHA for former trainers and jockeys to put themselves forward for the new panel, the formation of which was recommended by Christopher Quinlan QC in a review of the regulator’s disciplinary and licensing procedures last year.
“I’ve worked in racing all my life and hopefully we can bring something to the table,” Pitman said on Monday. “If people are unfortunate enough to find themselves in an inquiry, I’m hopeful they will be satisfied with their treatment and the decisions that are made.
“I’ve worked with owners, stable staff, jockeys, vets, feed merchants, I was on the Lambourn Trainers’ Association committee and I’ve done a lot of stuff since I retired from training. The panel members who have done it from the grassroots, we’ve done it and didn’t read it in a book, so hopefully we’ll all be an asset to the panel in general. I haven’t got a legal brain but I’ve got common sense.”
Quinlan’s review was commissioned before the protracted disciplinary case involving the trainer Jim Best, which finally concluded in December last year when Best was banned for six months for ordering a jockey to stop two horses in races in December 2015. He had initially been banned for four years in April 2016 after an earlier hearing of the case, but that result was quashed when it emerged that Matthew Lohn, the chairman of the disciplinary panel, had accepted paid work for the BHA on non-disciplinary matters.
Several QCs, both current and retired, are also included on the new panel, including Patrick Milmo QC, an owner for many years, who also represented Jack and Linda Ramsden and their jockey Kieren Fallon in a successful libel action against the Sporting Life newspaper in 1998. Jodie Mogford, a former jump jockey and now an assistant trainer at Graeme McPherson’s yard, is also on the panel, but will not sit on any cases which involve a licensed trainer or in which McPherson, a QC who regularly acts for racing clients, is involved on either side.
John de Moraville, a former racing correspondent for the Daily Express who has been a handicapper for the BHA for nearly 20 years, will join the panel in November 2018, while Simon Rowlands, a form expert and the current chairman of the Horseracing Bettors Forum, also survived a selection process which involved 138 applications and 53 interviews.
Lingfield
5.50 Sporting Times 6.20 Ghinia 6.50 Notice
7.20 Akavit 7.50 Manatee Bay 8.20 Elizabeth Bennet
8.50 Buzz Lightyere
Salisbury
2.00 Initiative 2.30 Groundnut 3.00 Razzmatazz
3.30 Secret Agent 4.00 Dubara (nap) 4.30 Loving Your Work 5.00 Topmeup
5.30 Swanton Blue
Southwell
6.00 Maxed Out King 6.30 Riddlestown
7.00 Polly’s Pursuit 7.30 Paddy’s Field
8.00 Beyeh 8.30 Amirr 9.00 Powderonthebonnet
Yarmouth
2.15 Tivoli 2.45 Hawkerland 3.15 Theydon Girls
3.45 Excel Again (nb) 4.15 Permanent
4.45 Chetan 5.15 Wotadoll
Essex, without a title for a quarter of a century and in their first season back in the top flight, lead the County Championship. Having taken full points in thrashing Surrey by eight wickets at Guildford – after the hosts dominated the first day, Essex ran every session, despite missing Matt Quinn with a back spasm – they have won half their six games, and are the only unbeaten team in the league. Ducks have taken to water with greater difficulty.
The elegant Tom Westley completed this win the same way he finishes every stroke: with a flourish. His stylish unbeaten 108 helped his side reach 253 – a target Surrey’s captain, Gareth Batty, said was as simple as 160 on other grounds – without alarm. This is a theme: in Essex’s wins, Westley has 337 runs, a pair of centuries, and red ink in two chases.
That target had been set up by some efficient final-morning bowling. The industrious Neil Wagner returned and forced Stuart Meaker and Ravi Rampaul into loose shots, then Mark Footitt witlessly ran himself out seeking a second run. Ben Foakes, stranded on 65, looked furious, and with good reason; since that fine first day, Surrey had batted poorly and passively. Mark Stoneman, who was the reason for their early dominance, will on Tuesday receive a maiden call-up from England Lions.
For the second time in the match, Westley came to the crease when Alastair Cook fell on the stroke of lunch, this time for 31. He shared 95 with Nick Browne, whose form returned with a 77 full of attractive drives, and 104 with Dan Lawrence. When set, Westley hit 38 from his last 25 balls, including three successive boundaries off Scott Borthwick, then a pulled four off Stuart Meaker to bring up his 17th first-class century. Like Stoneman, he is ready should England call. It is the smoothness with which players such as Westley and Lawrence have adjusted to life in Division One that will most please Essex.
“Going top is not a big thing,” said Essex’s captain and first-innings centurion, Ryan ten Doeschate. “But the way we have gone about winning this game, missing Quinny on the first day, the effort that was required to find a win on a very good wicket with two out and out seamers is very rewarding.”
This was a seismic day in the shaping of the season and if the promoted side are leading the charge for the title, the champions are looking more like candidates for relegation than retention. Middlesex’s unbeaten run was terminated after 21 games, by Lancashire at Southport, with eight wickets the emphatic margin of defeat. The second day was lost to rain, and still Lancashire chased down the 108 they required shortly after lunch on the final day, with – pleasingly for England – Haseeb Hameed unbeaten on 38, his highest score since the opening game of the season. Middlesex’s tail had wagged to set up the target – they were still behind when they lost their sixth second-innings wicket. Stephen Parry took his first Championship five-wicket haul as they were bowled out for 236; such a paltry target, even on a sporting pitch against a batting lineup prone to scares, was never going to be enough.
The most thrilling finish was at Taunton, where Somerset fell four runs short of their first win of the season, against Yorkshire when Jamie Overton – having shortly before hit a six – turned Adam Lyth to midwicket. The debutant Adam Hose and Steven Davies, who made his first 50 of the season, put on 118 for the fifth wicket, but both were gone with 63 still required. Ryan Sidebottom then took three wickets with the old ball to finish with eight in the match, before Lyth’s late intervention dramatically curtailed the lower order resistance. Only Warwickshire are below Somerset, while only Essex sit above Yorkshire.
In Division Two, Sussex waltzed to their second consecutive win following their tricky start to the season . They had a tricky start to the game, away at Leicestershire, too. With nine of their first innings wickets gone, they were 139 behind Leicestershire’s 340, but ended up by winning by five wickets. Their last pair put on a record 83, then Jofra Archer took six wickets (to go with five in the first innings) to bowl Leicestershire out for 175. Luke Wells led the chase for 232 with a composed, unbeaten 90.
And Nottinghamshire were unable to take the nine Gloucestershire wickets they required on the final day on a lifeless pitch at Bristol that, according to the Notts assistant coach, Paul Franks: “makes a mockery of what good cricket should be about”. Harry Gurney took two early, but Chris Dent (71) and Graeme van Buuren (88 not out) ensured Gloucestershire earned a draw five down. Nottinghamshire, who travel to Taunton Tuesday for a One-Day Cup knockout, remain top of the division, by 16 points over Kent, who have played six games to Notts’ seven.
The Oyston family, owners of Blackpool, have been accused at the high court of treating the football club as “the family’s personal cash machine”.
Lawyers for the Latvian millionaire Valeri Belokon, the club’s president, were launching what could prove to be one of British football’s most expensive legal actions. Andrew Green QC alleged on Monday at the start of a five-week hearing that Owen and Karl Oyston, owner and chairman of the Lancashire club, had “improperly” extracted millions of pounds from its funds following promotion to the Premier League in 2010 and used the money for their own benefit.
Belokon’s company VB Football Assets, a minor shareholder in the club, was excluded from key decisions, information and any share of profits, Green said.
VB Football is pursuing a claim against the Oystons for “unfair prejudice” against shareholders. The claim is also against Blackpool FC Ltd itself and Blackpool FC (Properties) Ltd, a company with family links formerly known as Segesta. The Oystons are vigorously denying the claims in what has developed into a bitter legal battle.
Green told Justice Marcus Smith, sitting in London, that as a result of the Seasiders reaching the Premier League, the club received £106m. The unprecedentedinflux of cash over five years included £48m in respect of the 2010-11 season, followed by £58m in parachute payments after Blackpool’s relegation at the end of the season.
Green said: “Owen and Karl Oyston have treated Blackpool Football Club as the Oystons’ personal cash machine.” The QC said the family’s case was that at all times they had been transparent and open in relation to payments made out of the club. “Our case is this is simply inconsistent when you consider the documents. There was, in fact, the adoption of a deliberate strategy by the Oyston family to take cash out of Blackpool Football Club and do so in a way VB Football Assets and its nominated directors could do nothing to stop what was the antithesis of transparency.”
Belokon won a court case in Manchester in February this year in a dispute with the Oystons over his share of profits after he provided £4.7m in July 2008 to develop the south stand and south-west corner of the club’s stadium. That case was brought by JSC Baltic International Bank, owned by Belokon, against Segesta Ltd, the holding company for the club’s assets.
In March, the club announced Belokon was being suspended from its board as a result of a judgment in the Paris court of appeal related to disputed allegations of money laundering involving two banks founded or owned by him. The hearing continues.
The Fiver has never had the problem of not knowing where it is going to be “in the future”. Every weekday – save for those blessed bank holidays – is spent chained to The Man’s desk, typewriter firmly fixed on lap, every weekend is spent surrounded by lots of Tin and a subscription to Guardian Soulmates. Tea-timely email WLTM similar. Zero matches thus far.
The point being, The Fiver’s dye is cast. Whether The Fiver has a good day or a bad day, it knows the next one will always be at Fiver Towers. Not so for footballers, who have the luxury of moving on to pastures new, even if that pasture is on a slippery slope where the grass a little less green; a rugged piece of agricultural land with absolutely no hope of playing in Big Cup next season. Joe Hart is in this rather ambiguous bracket. And rather than have his Mr 15% actually do his job, Honesty Joe decided that the best thing to do was to put all his cards on the table which, as Theresa May will tell you, is the worst possible thing to do if you want a good deal.
“I would love to give you a poker-straight answer as to where I’ll be next season but I’ve got nothing at the moment,” Honesty Joe conceded, continuing the card analogy. “I’d love to be ‘withholding information’ about my future, but I don’t have the information to withhold. People are focused on international duty and respecting that players are focused on international duty.” Indeed, in an interesting take on Brandy and Monica’s 1998 smash hit, Hart admitted that his international duty might also be in doubt.
“This shirt’s not mine.” Honesty Joe honestly sang, the sound of 90s R&B leaking out of every pore. “We’ve got high-quality goalkeepers and I will have to be playing at a good, well, at the top level, to the maximum of my ability, even to get in the squad.” Yes, Honesty Joe, that is all well and good, but what exactly is the good level or the top level or the maximum of your ability? Mediocrity at Torino seems to be the standard, but where does clumsiness at Crystal Palace, or mediocrity at Newcastle sit in the pyramid of Hartism?
Taxpayers FC might be the best fit owing to the fact that they might be the only club able to afford his reported £110,000-a-week wages, although as of 4.08pm BST there hasn’t been a peep out of Big Website’s inside man, Gollivan Offspring Jack Sullivan. Still, that’s the basket The Fiver is putting its eggs into, only because the image of a bleary-eyed Honesty Joe being unveiled inside a glass prison on the wrong side of London – with even the South Bank’s most boisterous tourists shuddering in embarrassment as England’s now former No1 is forced to do the obligatory Hammers crossed-arm thing non-stop for a full half-hour; 2017’s David Blaine, if you will – is too good to be confined to the imagination.
“If the neighbouring countries in north-east Asia, including North and South Korea, can host the World Cup together, it would help to create peace in North and South Korea as well as north-east Asia” – well, it would appear that South Korea’s new happy-clappy president Moon Jae-in is a strong contender for The Fiver’s newly-created Most-Optimistic-Bod-Of-All-Time gong.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“Fabulous to see England U20s lifting the World Cup, and Chelsea’s Dominic Solanke lifting the player of the tournament award. Let’s hope the Premier League champions can nurture this jewel in England’s crown and – oh” – Guy Campbell.
“Iain Moore says he’s ‘a relative newcomer’ (Friday’s letters), but even so, why would he think the absence of football would have any impact on the content of The Fiver, over the summer or otherwise? Actually, The Fiver could probably survive nuclear war pretty much unchanged, like the cockroaches. And keep sending out the evening email, also pretty much unchanged, because after enough time a new cockroach civilisation would arise with a need for its STOP FOOTBALL campaign. Something to look forward to there” – Dan Silk.
“There is harm in repeating key messages (Friday’s Fiver) – particularly if Fiver Ed interjects with a grammatical brain f@rt” – Jon Still (and 1,056 others).
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Guy Campbell.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Oasis’s Don’t Look Back in Anger will echo around the Stade de France before Tuesday’s friendly with England as the French pay respect to those killed in the London and Manchester attacks.
England Under-20s boss Paul Simpson said he hopes his side’s World Cup triumph can help the senior side actually win something. “I hope it has a positive impact,” he cheered, before taking a swig of water from his half-full glass.
Everton are in talks with both the Málaga striker Sandro Ramírez and Ajax captain Davy Klaassen, who would fill the Ross Barkley-shaped hole in midfield, should Barkley do one.
Norn Iron’s Kyle Lafferty reckons Azerbaijan could be just the place for him to be handsomely remunerated for gadding about a football pitch. “Who knows what could happen if Qarabag come in with an offer for me? I could be back playing my football in Baku,” he cooed after his side’s 1-0 win.
In case you missed it, Andorra won their first match since 2004 on Friday, beating Hungary 1-0 in their World Cup qualifier despite completing only 44 passes. Yes, 44 passes.
Garry Monk is targeting an instant return to the land of loads of lolly with Middlesbrough because, really, what else could he say?
And Emmanuel Adebayor has given us another glimpse into his renowned enthusiasm for the game by describing his motivation for joining Crystal Palace. “I did it just to please my entourage, who were saying to me: ‘Manu, you have to start playing again!’ It was the worst decision of my career,” he yawned.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
Alfie Mawson tells Stuart James how to earn 40 quid at a car boot sale and about wearing his England kit around the house.
Joe Hart is defiant, but not guaranteed to be England’s No1, so-says Daniel Taylor.
England missed a trick out wide against Scotland, reckons Michael Cox.
Will Liverpool hand over £40m in cash to sign Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from Arsenal? That and more tittle-tattle in today’s Rumour Mill.
Kylian Mbappé, the freakishly talented 18-year-old, might be set free against England, warns Amy Lawrence.
What do Johan Cruyff, Alan Shearer and Dave Whelan have in common? Simon Burnton on the trouble with bronze.
David Beckham’s big American dreams are edging nearer, but where’s all the glitz and glamour, asks Richard Luscombe.
And Ben Wilson gets hands-on with the latest Fifa 18 so you don’t have to – not till September anyway.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
A trivia question: who was the last team to beat New Zealand at Eden Park, the stadium that hosts two of the three Tests against the British & Irish Lions? The answer is, of course, France in 1994 in a match best remembered for Jean-Luc Sadourny’s “try from the end of the world”.
Contrast that unforgettable moment in rugby union history with Dan Cole’s quip last week that, “the quickest line to the tryline is a straight line”.
Considering he once went 60 Test matches without scoring a try, Cole is perhaps not the most qualified member of the Lions squad to pass judgment on the subject but his pithy assessment is accurate, if showing disregard for aesthetics.
The fact remains though that the Lions have managed just two in three tour matches and while it is a cause for concern, rather than panic after restricting the Crusaders to just a penalty, it can be said with certainty that they will not end the All Blacks’ unbeaten run at Eden Park without scoring tries. Sam Warburton has said the Lions need to score at least 20 points to beat New Zealand but in their last four defeats the All Blacks have averaged 33 points against and while the 12-3 win over the Crusaders has alleviated the pressure brought on by the Blues defeat, the attack needs refinement.
Warren Gatland has accentuated the positives – whereas chances against the New Zealand Barbarians and the Blues were minimal, the Lions created openings against the Crusaders and would have at least doubled their tally for the tour with slightly cooler heads. Gatland has also pointed to the 13 line-breaks in Christchurch while their try in Whangarei was taken with a simplicity – Anthony Watson’s sharp spin and finish notwithstanding – that belies their subsequent scoring problems.
But it is CJ Stander’s try against the Blues that should be more instructive as to how the Lions can improve their scoring rate, in a manner in keeping with Cole’s analysis. For whether it is a lineout drive or a dazzling, length of the field score such as Ihaia West’s, they are still both worth five points and the rolling maul ought to be among the Lions’ most potent weapons.
Against the Crusaders, on more than one occasion Farrell kicked aggressively into the corner but the Lions were unable to capitalise. The home side’s defence takes its fair share of credit for that but with Jamie George and George Kruis linking so well at the lineout, as they do for Saracens, the Lions’ inability to drive over the line was surprising.
Indeed, it has been said that the Lions would be well advised to copy Saracens’ style – an argument given added currency after the way that they strangled the Crusaders with Owen Farrell to the fore and a pack containing three of his club-mates, with Maro Itoje coming off the bench. But perhaps a more effective blueprint for scoring tries would be that of Exeter. The Premiership champions scored 86 tries last season and they finished the regular campaign with a record eight consecutive bonus-point wins. There is also no side in the country more effective than scoring from a driving lineout that the Chiefs.
Add in the fact that while Crusaders followers have vented their fury with Mathieu Raynal’s interpretations of the laws, the Lions are confident of at least parity at the scrum against the All Blacks – as Gatland says: “Our scrum will be very strong by the time it comes around to the test” – and the Lions will hope to have ample opportunity to kick for the corners. It may not be as eye-catching as, say, West’s try but it should not be confused with negativity. When it was decided that Farrell would kick at goal in Whangarei rather than to the corner, it was a negative decision, only compounded by the fact he struck the upright. It was the wrong choice and a wasted opportunity to fine-tune their driving lineout.
For while Gatland and his coaches have sporadically hinted that the Lions are holding aspects of their attacking game-plan back for the Tests, it is a stretch to suggest that is why the maul, in a try-scoring sense, has not been used to any great effect as yet. More likely, as with their inability to finish when Watson burst through against the Crusaders, or when all Jonathan Davies needed to do was find George North outside him, it requires polish and as frustrating as those missed opportunities were last Saturday, perhaps the most disappointing chance to go begging was the late lineout against the Blues.
The Lions face the Highlanders on Tuesday under the Forsyth Barr Stadium roof and so it will be the hardest, fastest pitch that they encounter throughout the tour, against a side who will be hell-bent on breaking the shackles imposed on the Crusaders. For Tommy Seymour, who starts on the wing, it is an opportunity to cure the Lions’ white line fever. “Once these passes stick we’ve got individuals that can create things out of nothing from 80 metres let alone finish from five metres out,” he said. “Sometimes it can be a bit like a tidal wave and they all come after that.” He is no doubt right to say that the Lions will find their try-scoring rhythm sooner or later but it would pay to remember they do not all have to come from the end of the Earth.
Even before National Hockey League commissioner Gary Bettman appeared at ice level on Sunday night in Nashville to award the Stanley Cup to the Pittsburgh Penguins, fans in the Bridgestone Arena were already chanting “Bettman sucks.”
Most likely, the hatred spawned most directly from the fact that the Predators, who lost 1-0 to the Penguins in what was to be the decisive Game 6, would have been up by that same tally from early on, had it not been for a mystifying call by one of the referees. Early in the second period, a Predators shot deflected off the glove of Penguins goaltender Matt Murray, and Predators centre Colton Sissions tapped it in. But for whatever reason, the play had already been whistled dead, and the goal was disallowed.
NO GOAL.The refs blew the whistle before the puck crossed the line. #StanleyCup pic.twitter.com/Hg9etK1EAa
It was a weirdly fitting bookend to the series, though an unfortunate one for the Predators. In the first period of Game 1, Preds defenceman PK Subban scored to put Nashville up 1-0 on the defending champions. But the Penguins utilized a newly-introduced feature to the NHL, the coach’s challenge, and after review it was determined that the Predators had been offside. The goal was called back.
Nothing is to be taken away from the Penguins in all this. Pittsburgh are now the first team in the post-salary cap era in the NHL to win back-to-back Stanley Cups. The victory also ends another amazing season for the team’s captain, Sidney Crosby. Crosby started the season leading Canada to victory at the World Cup of Hockey; he finished it with his second Conn Smythe trophy, awarded to the most valuable player of the postseason.
Yet, for all the stories there are to tell about Pittsburgh, and for all the other, smaller, stories there are to tell about the 2017 Stanley Cup final – including whether Subban, the league’s most interesting player had, thanks to some post-game chirping, unnecessarily provoked Crosby into a career performance – the story this year belongs to Nashville.
And because it belongs to Nashville, at least some part of it belongs to the man Predators fans booed mercilessly when he did finally emerge Sunday night – the man responsible for bringing them a team in the first place: Gary Bettman.
There are many reasons Bettman is generally disliked by NHL fans, and why booing him as he presents the Cup every year is an annual tradition that Nashville took on with gusto. It is under Bettman, for example, that the league has undergone a number of game-play changes, including 3-on-3 in overtime, and the hated shootout. It is under Bettman that the coach’s challenge was introduced. It is under Bettman that the NHL has had two recent lockouts. And it is Bettman who obstinately refuses to admit a connection between concussions and CTE.
But atop the list of reasons why fans like to boo Bettman is that it is under his watch that the league has morphed into something many still fantasize that the NHL is not: a big business. When you ask hockey fans what annoys them most about the NHL, the answer is often that it is simply too big. Specifically, many fans decry more teams in places where there should not be teams – places in the southern United States such as Florida, Georgia, Arizona and (coming soon!) Nevada – and fewer teams in places where they think there should (Markham, Quebec City, Hamilton and Seattle).
Expansion, it turns out, is the harshest word in hockey. Unless, of course, it works.
In announcing the NHL’s plans to expand into Nashville and Columbus, as well as to return hockey to Atlanta and Minneapolis-St Paul, in June 1997, Bettman told the Associated Press that the moves would position the league for “significant growth and stability as we head into the next century.” He was wrong when it came to Atlanta. He was wrong for a long time about Columbus. But he was right about Minnesota. And, as is now clear, nearly 20 years since the Predators first took to the ice, he was eventually pretty much right about Nashville.
“You know when somebody says something to you and it just rings in your head; it just seems right from the start? That was the beginning.” This, apparently, is how the idea for Nashville, Tennessee as a hockey town began, according to an account from the team’s original owner, Craig Leipold. Nashville ticked the boxes for Bettman: a stadium awaiting a major league franchise, either NBA or NHL; potential ownership; and the right kind of market. Still, “[i]t was more than just a straight statistical thing,” he told Leipold. “All the economic indicators were there, and I believed that it could sustain a franchise.” But, Bettman said, there were “intangibles,” also. “My gut told me that this city could do it,” he said.
It almost didn’t.
Through the first nine seasons, Leipold lost $70m, and in 2007 there were rumours he was set to sell the team to tech billionaire Jim Balsillie (who wanted to move the team). Despite putting together consistently competitive squads, the Preds saw their average attendance fall to just over 13,000 per game in the 2006-07 season, and had as few as 9,000 season ticket holders. But the deal with Balsillie never materialized, and in the meantime, a Tennessee-based ownership group came to the fore and managed to keep the team in Nashville.
But it’s not as if there weren’t hockey fans around – even if they weren’t initially Predators fans.
In 1990, General Motors opened its plant in Spring Hill, Tennessee, a then-tiny town about a half hour drive south of Nashville, to manufacture its Saturn line. Six thousand employees from Michigan were relocated at the same time. When some of them heard, a few years later, that Nashville was getting an NHL team, those among them who were Red Wings fans were lured in by a chance to see their former hometown team play. But, as Jordan Ritter Conn chronicled recently at the Ringer, some of those fans eventually morphed into honest-to-goodness Predators fans.
And Nashville eventually gave those displaced hockey fans – as well as plenty more Nashville natives who adopted the team – a new place to call home: Smashville. Frank Glinsky came up with the term – a town “where the big hits of hockey met the smash hits of country music” – and when the Predators were searching in 2002 for a new slogan to give season ticket sales a bump, he submitted it. The concept – relaunched in 2009 by marketing firm GS&F – was one that placed the Preds in the centre of a city-wide party. It was the Smashville attitude writ large that showcased the town’s embrace of the team, and made the Predators run so special. Every game night, thousands of people have filled the streets around the Bridgestone Arena. Inside, the party was taken to another level – as if it were perpetually last call at the local bar. NFL football players chugged huge beers together in the box seats; the mascot drove an ATV across the ice; a different country star sang the national anthem each night; catfish, thrown from the stands, occasionally littered the ice.
Veteran Canadian broadcaster Bob McKenzie described it simply as: a Cup final like no other.
But the 2017 finals did more than cement Nashville as a legitimate hockey town; they marked the end of yet another chapter of the NHL’s expansion story. Before the month is out, the league will hold yet another expansion draft, this time in aid of creating a team for Las Vegas. The Golden Knights, yet another southern team, will take to the ice to start the 2017-18 NHL season. Shortly after the league announced its decision to grant Vegas a franchise, Gary Bettman told Sports Illustrated that having a team in that city will “enhance the league as a whole.”
“The people of Las Vegas – the people who live and work there – are going to embrace this team,” Bettman said. Perhaps the only way we’ll ever know if he is right this time is if, one day, the Golden Knights are where the Predators found themselves Sunday night, and Gary Bettman takes to the ice  in Vegas to be roundly booed.
A familiar American phenomenon has been in full force during the rise of Christian Pulisic this past year — for every US soccer fan or writer proclaiming Pulisic as the real deal, there’s been another one fretting about Freddy Adu, and the dangers of too much hope, too soon, being placed on the shoulders of the 18-year-old. It’s a familiar US pastime. And as Pulisic broke open a tense game against Trinidad & Tobago with two goals on Thursday night, the cautionary takes were as abundant as the hyperbolic ones.
But nobody within USMNT circles is pretending that Pulisic is anything other than their brightest: Bruce Arena called him “a big boy now”. Against Trinidad, Pulisic’s urgency in reaching the ball ahead of Clint Dempsey for the first goal had a symbolic feel. Pulisic vs Dempsey is not a zero sum choice, but it’s become clear in the last few games, that it’s impossible to give both players any sort of roaming brief. Dempsey is still dangerous, and capable of driving some games in those fits of self-righteous fervor, but his relevance to the national team will depend on him adapting to Pulisic rather than the other way around.
And if Pulisic was quieter against Mexico, there was a reason. Along with his team-mates he was absorbing pressure for much of the game, so that the moment two minutes from the end where he cut inside to shoot, and for a second dangled fresh levels of hype in front of us, was a standout rather than the rule. There’s a place for that kind of performance too, when it comes to assessing Pulisic. Eighteen or not, caveats about his age don’t really have a place any more. The team have pinned their hopes on Pulisic — if the fans do too, he’s ready to take it.
WHAT. A. GOAL. (Via @FOXSoccer) https://t.co/essdEgwgt6 #MEXvUSA
The opening few minutes of the Mexico game had already seen a couple of wild elbows, some unexpectedly bold US pressing, and had yet to settle into a pattern when Michael Bradley made his move.
In keeping with that aggressive US start Bradley had stepped up to win the ball, and then with a directness we rarely see from him, hit the most exquisite, shallow-arced chip over Ochoa in the Mexican goal.
The clamor and intensity and occasional downright ugliness of the opening minutes made the sweet flight of the ball off Bradley’s boot seem even more, well, beautiful, by contrast — and perhaps mixed in with the surprise of it was that the ball was hit by Michael Bradley.
Bradley had been shunted up and down the center of the formation for so long by the end of Jürgen Klinsmann’s tenure, that the sight of the US captain moving dutifully but awkwardly into position to play yet another cautious square pass had come to feel like his sole possible contribution.
The last time the US played Mexico, Bradley’s most memorable first half contribution was running to the sideline in a break in play to consult with a lost looking Klinsmann as Mexico ran the US ragged in Columbus. On Sunday night there was no confusion. Direct when he needed to be (and nearly stealing the winner with another shot off the post in the second half), marshaling the midfield line of defense more often, Bradley reminded us of his virtues against Mexico. And when he hit that shot he even made Bruce Arena smile.
The record used to speak for itself, with the long list of US losses at the Azteca suggesting an inferiority complex deepening for the visitors with each defeat. US teams used to appear beaten at the point of the first setback, if not before they took the field in the first place. But now, with a win and two draws in the last three visits to the stadium, Mexico’s advantage has been diminished.
When I was working on a story on the effects of altitude recently, in anticipation of this game, I spoke with Colorado coach Pablo Mastroeni, who knows a thing or two about the phenomenon. He suggested that past defeats may have as big a part to play in the outcome of the game as any consequence of the thin air.
The impregnability of the Azteca was diminished during Mexico’s struggles in World Cup 2014 qualifying, but even in the formidable run put together by Juan Carlos Osorio this time round, it’s been easier said than done to make the Azteca a fortress again. Part of the reason of course is that these days Mexico’s players are just as susceptible to the conditions as their opponents – most play their soccer in Europe.
Mexico will qualify comfortably for the World Cup. But even as they ended the Dos a Cero sequence up north, they couldn’t regain the historic dominance of the US when the series switched down south. There’s been talk of future national team games being moved away from the Azteca, and the more results like this happen, the less unthinkable that prospect seems.
Bruce Arena might have wondered why he bothered to come back after he saw the reaction to his appointment. The most experienced American coach in the game was treated as an underwhelming choice when he was announced as Klinsmann’s replacement. Even the arguments about him being a safe pair of hands, for what had suddenly become a World Cup qualification emergency, seemed to damn him with faint praise.
There were advantages to that too, of course. With the bare expectation that the team get points on the board, Arena did not have to deal with any of the existential questions about the overall trajectory of the program that Klinsmann had dealt with (and frankly, invited, with his dual role as technical director). Points for wins and draws were all that mattered. Style was irrelevant.
And yet even in the exceptional circumstances of preparing a roster for two games on a three-day turnaround at altitude, there were signs of an Arena manifesto for this US team. There’s the growing clues as to Arena’s preferred midfield, with the integrations of Kelyn Acosta alongside Bradley. Acosta replaced Dempsey against Trinidad, and Arena told me after the game that the purpose of that was to “get Pulisic closer to goal”. But it also beta-tested a defensive midfield screen ready to face Mexico, and that would in the event perform admirably. Add in the faith in Darlington Nagbe, rewarded by the midfielder’s directness in helping break the deadlock in Colorado, and there are real signs of Arena’s preferred side. And with qualification looking more and more likely the bigger picture of where Arena is taking this team begins to become more of a question. So far he’s answering the question confidently.
DaMarcus Beasley’s latest adventure involved playing 90 minutes against Mexico in the Azteca, in what’s now a record-breaking fifth World Cup qualifying cycle. Beasley did not particularly disappoint as one of seven changes Bruce Arena had made from the Trinidad game, even if he was the player Carlos Vela went past to score the equalizing goal. But his presence was a reminder of the USA’s ongoing inability to find and stick with a first-choice left-back.
Jorge Villafana did well enough against Trinidad. But when we’ve seen natural center backs like Tim Ream and Matt Besler tried out there, it’s apparent that there’s no specialist in that position who has distinguished themselves from the crowd. And that’s going to be a headache in the coming year.
John Stones is under consideration for a defensive midfield role as England explore their options in the build-up to the World Cup finals next summer, with Gareth Southgate seeking solutions for what he perceives to be a shortfall of talent in the position.
The England manager has experimented with Stones, long considered to be the best ball-playing centre-half at England’s disposal, in a midfield brief both at St George’s Park last week and, since Sunday, at the team’s temporary base in Croissy-sur-Seine. While the 23-year-old is still expected to start his 18th cap against France on Tuesday in a more familiar role in the middle of a back three, Southgate believes the Manchester City defender boasts the attributes to thrive as a holding midfielder at some stage.
“Well, I think he could do that [role],” said Southgate, who will begin for the first time with Tom Heaton in goal with Jack Butland to earn his first cap for 16 months in the second half.
“We had a look at that in training last week, in fact. I also think we want defenders who can bring the ball out and show composure. I think he could do either of those jobs. You’ve asked me if he’s an option there, and I think he is. He’s a player who’s very comfortable receiving possession, and has all the attributes and capabilities to play as a holding midfield player. He obviously hasn’t done that yet, really, so that’s a decision we have to make. But do I believe he can play that role? Absolutely.”
Stones was an unused substitute in the World Cup qualifier against Scotland on Saturday after injury restricted him to only 13 minutes of first-team football at City in the last six weeks of the campaign. He will start in a back three as Southgate switches system from that employed at Hampden Park.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is likely to start in central midfield, alongside Eric Dier, though Stones could push up into the role at some stage during the match. The visitors will be captained by Harry Kane in a friendly for which video assistant referees – the Italians Marco Guida and Massimiliano Irrati – have been appointed to review major decisions.
There will be a debut for Kieran Trippier, as well as that first start for Heaton with Joe Hart, Southgate’s first-choice goalkeeper, having always been earmarked to be rested for the fixture. “Joe is the No1,” Southgate said. “But next season we don’t know who will be playing at which club, who will be in form. Tom has had an outstanding season and we’ve got to maintain the squad environment and make sure people feel involved. Equally, Jack is coming back off a long lay-off and was No2 before that. We think he could also challenge for the No1 slot moving forward. We want competition for places.”
Didier Deschamps’s hosts will also experiment with their selection, with a first start anticipated for Thomas Lemar and his Monaco team-mate Kylian Mbappé, employed up front alongside Olivier Giroud.
The likes of Ousmane Dembélé, Samuel Umtiti and the full-backs Benjamin Mendy and Djibril Sidibé are expected to start. Southgate expects a stern test from France’s talented young side. “But the key is we learn something from the game,” he said. “We don’t have many opportunities to try things, to try players, so we have to take these chances. We need flexibility as a team.”
The Oasis song Don’t Look Back in Anger will echo around the Stade de France before kick-off as those present, including the prime minister, Theresa May, unite to pay respect to the victims of recent terrorist atrocities in Manchester and London. Eight people were killed in the capital a little over a week ago while, last month, 22 died with many more injured when a suicide bomber targeted a pop concert at the Manchester Arena.
The home support will hold up red and white placards to form the flag of St George as the players emerge into the arena, with a minute’s silence to precede kick-off.
The tributes mirror those at Wembley in November 2015, just days after the terror attacks in Paris, when England supporters had sung *La Marseillaise* ahead of a friendly with France and the teams had entered with the locals parading a flag reading ’Libert√©, Egalit√©, Fraternit√©’. England’s preparations have been undertaken amid heavy security at the Stade Omnisports, on the outskirts of Paris, at the venue used as Russia’s training base for last summer’s European Championships.
Oasis’s Don’t Look Back in Anger will echo around the Stade de France ahead of Tuesday’s friendly with England as the French pay respect to those killed in the London and Manchester attacks.
Just over a week ago eight people were killed in the capital by terrorists and on May 22 a bomb rocked Manchester Arena, leaving 22 people dead and injuring many more.
A minute’s silence was observed before kick-off for Saturday’s World Cup qualifier between Scotland and England, with the same tribute to be paid at the Stade de France on Tuesday evening ahead of the friendly with England.
Both teams are to wear black armbands and Press Association Sport understands fans will hold up red and white placards to form the England flag as Oasis’ ’Don’t Look Back in Anger’ is played just before the players emerge.
It is a reversal of the tributes seen at Wembley in November 2015, where a flag reading ’Liberte, Egalite, Fraternite’ led the team procession as the sides met just days after the terror attacks in Paris.
France midfielder Lassana Diarra’s cousin Asta Diakite was among those killed, while Antoine Griezmann’s sister managed to escape the mass killing at the Bataclan theatre.
Both players started on the bench at Wembley, where the words to La Marseillaise were shown on the big screen, allowing home supporters to join in a touching rendition of the French national anthem.
England and France players posed shoulder-to-shoulder for a photo, before standing together around the centre circle during a minute of silence.
South Korea’s president, Moon Jae-in, has suggested North Korea could be part of a bid to co-host the 2030 World Cup. In a meeting with the Fifa president, Gianni Infantino, Moon said that several countries in north-east Asia – including the isolated North Korea – could form a bloc to share hosting duties for the tournament.
According to the president’s spokesperson Park Su-hyun, Moon said: “If the neighbouring countries in north-east Asia, including North and South Korea, can host the World Cup together, it would help to create peace in North and South Korea as well as north-east Asia. I would like President Infantino to have interests on this matter.”
The liberal South Korean president has been open to more dialogue with the North since he was elected last month. North Korea has so far shown no sign of responding, however, instead conducting missile tests at an unprecedented pace in defiance of global sanctions imposed on it. Last week the prospect for Moon’s push to expand cross-border exchanges was thrown into doubt as the North rejected a Seoul civic group’s offer to provide relief items.
Infantino’s visit to South Korea took in the Under-20 World Cup, the final of which England won 1-0 against Venezuela. It marked England’s first global title since the senior side won the 1966 World Cup final. Fifa’s president said he would relay Moon’s suggestions to China’s president Xi Jinping, who he is scheduled to visit this week.
South Korea co-hosted the World Cup in 2002 with Japan, and the organisers of next year’s Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang hope North Korea will take part. The North boycotted the 1986 Asian Games and the 1988 Olympics, both held in Seoul, but it has since attended other major international sports events held in the South.
Queensland have wielded the axe, making seven changes for next week’s must-win State of Origin game two in Sydney. Veterans Sam Thaiday, Nate Myles, Jacob Lillyman and Aidan Guerra have been dumped along with unlucky winger Corey Oates and centre Justin O’Neill, while five-eighth Anthony Milford has a shoulder injury.
Fullback Billy Slater has been named to make his return in the clash at ANZ Stadium on 21 June along with champion five-eighth Johnathan Thurston, who missed the series-opening 28-4 loss at Suncorp Stadium due to injury.
Queensland took the unusual step of naming their 17-man team alphabetically but Darius Boyd is expected to move to left wing in place of Oates to make way for Slater at the back. Cronulla’s Valentine Holmes seems set to debut on the right wing, with Dane Gagai moving to centre in place of O’Neill.
In the forwards, North Queensland youngster Coen Hess will make his debut while Cowboys teammate Gavin Cooper returns to the Origin arena. The biggest bolter is Melbourne prop Tim Glasby, and Gold Coast prop Jarrod Wallace has also been called up to debut after being 18th man in Game I.
Wallace must beat a shoulder charge citing at the NRL judiciary on Tuesday night if he is to play, as he otherwise faces a two-match ban. 
“We didn’t get the result that we needed to have. We went to plan B, which was always in our plans, to bring some new players in,” Maroons coach Kevin Walters said. “The transition period for Queensland is right now. It’s not next year, or the year after. We just picked 17 players who we feel are the best 17 for Queensland.”
Likely Queensland team: Billy Slater, Darius Boyd, Will Chambers, Dane Gagai, Valentine Holmes, Johnathan Thurston, Cooper Cronk, Dylan Napa, Cameron Smith (captain), Josh Papalii, Gavin Cooper, Matt Gillett, Josh McGuire. Interchange: Michael Morgan, Tim Glasby, Coen Hess, Jarrod Wallace.
Sidney Crosby is bringing the Stanley Cup back home to Pittsburgh for a second consecutive year.
Patric Hornqvist scored with 1:35 left and Matt Murray made 27 saves for his second straight shutout as the Penguins became the NHL’s first team in nearly two decades to repeat as champions following a 2-0 win over the Nashville Predators in Game 6 on Sunday night.
The #StanleyCup winning goal. pic.twitter.com/nWRNfJK3Ua
The Penguins won their fifth title — all of which have been clinched on the road — to tie the Wayne Gretzky-Mark Messier-era Edmonton Oilers for sixth on the all-time list. The Detroit Red Wings in 1997 and ‘98 were the last champion to defend their title, but the Penguins are the first to do it in the salary cap era.
“We knew it was going to be tough all year, but we just tried to keep with it,” said Crosby, who won his second Conn Smythe Trophy as postseason MVP. “We had a lot of injuries and things like that. We just kept finding ways. That was really what we did all season, all playoffs. It’s great to be able to do it.”
Hornqvist scored off Nashville goalie Pekka Rinne’s left elbow to end the scoreless game. Nashville challenged for goalie interference, but the goal was upheld. With Rinne pulled for an extra attacker, Carl Hagelin set off a bench celebration with an empty netter with 13.6 seconds left.
Nashville lost for just the first time in regulation on home ice this postseason.
Colton Sissons had a goal erased by a whistle 67 seconds into the second period. The Predators went 0 of 4 with the man advantage, including 32 seconds of a 5-on-3 in the third.
Forget a golden anniversary: The Penguins will cap their 50th season with their names on the most famous silver cup in sports — again. It is also the third championship for Crosby and a handful of teammates from the 2009 title team, surpassing the two won by the Penguins teams led by current owner Mario Lemieux in the 1990s.
And it’s the second championship in 18 months for coach Mike Sullivan, who has yet to lose a playoff series since taking over after Mike Johnston was fired. Sullivan is the first American-born coach to win the Cup not once, but twice.
Matt Murray became the first goalie to win not one, but two Stanley Cups as a rookie after being a late-season call up a year ago and didn’t play enough games to get that tag removed. That’s something neither Patrick Roy, Ken Dryden or Cam Ward ever managed, but the 23-year-old Murray finished this Cup Final shutting out Nashville for the final 126:52.
The loss ended the upstart Predators’ deepest playoff run in the franchise’s 19-year history and one that became the talk of the town far beyond Music City, catfish and all.
A superb strike from Michael Bradley gave the US a bonus point in the quest to reach next year’s World Cup, and a big psychological boost.
A squad still finding their feet under Bruce Arena shrugged off a dismal history at the Estadio Azteca to claim a draw on Sunday night, looking liberated by the lack of pressure that comes with limited expectations.
The captain, whose attacking prowess has not been to the fore in recent matches, intercepted the ball in midfield in the sixth minute, dashed forward and, spotting the goalkeeper out of position, chipped him from 40 yards for a sensational opening goal. The shot sank over Guillermo Ochoa in a mesmerising arc: a piece of craftsmanship, imagination and beauty so perfect that a video replay should run on an endless loop in a permanent exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
WHAT. A. GOAL. (Via @FOXSoccer) https://t.co/essdEgwgt6 #MEXvUSA
“Obviously it gave us an advantage early on,” Bradley told Fox Sports 1. “They had a lot of the ball but tactically the game went the way we expected … any time you get a point here it’s great, the mentality and the commitment from every guy was really good.” Bradley almost scored again from distance inside the last 20 minutes with a thunderbolt that clipped the outside of a post.
Carlos Vela scored Mexico’s goal, but a point was most welcome and fully merited for the US after an obdurate display in Mexico City against the side that leads the qualification standings. The US moved level on points with Costa Rica, who are second, although the Americans have played a game more.
Since Mexico won the previous meeting between the teams, the outcome also stands as a yardstick indicating improvements since Arena became coach. “We had let a lot of little things drop and I think Bruce has come in and done a really good job,” Bradley said in his post-match interview.
Mexico beat Honduras 3-0 last Thursday and - in stark contrast to their turmoil four years ago - have looked impressive in this qualifying campaign under their coach, Juan Carlos Osorio, a Colombian who is a former coach of the Chicago Fire and New York Red Bulls and a one-time student in Liverpool.
They also looked good a year ago in the Copa America Centenario before the bizarre blip in the quarter-finals when they lost 7-0 to eventual winners Chile. Here they were missing the injured Rafael Marquez, Miguel Layun and Andres Guardado, though Carlos Salcedo made an unexpected recovery from a leg injury.
Starting off the final Hexagonal round of Concacaf qualification, Mexico beat the US 2-1 in Columbus, Ohio, last November thanks to a late Marquez goal. It was an occasion freighted with political as well as sporting import, three days after the election of a certain former failed sports franchise owner to the White House.
The outcome ended the Americans’ 30-game home unbeaten run in World Cup qualifiers as well as the “dos a cero” scoreline streak. When the US lost to Costa Rica a couple of days later, Jurgen Klinsmann’s tenure as head coach was doomed.
Arena had said after the win over Trinidad & Tobago last week that he would change the team; he transformed it, with seven new names in the starting XI. Perhaps most surprisingly, the in-form Tim Howard, who played in the Americans’ only win at the Azteca, a 1-0 friendly victory in 2012, was rested and replaced in goal by Brad Guzan.
Geoff Cameron, Bradley, DeAndre Yedlin and Christian Pulisic were the only four to retain their places; left back Jorge Villafana was injured. The energetic 21-year-old, Kellyn Acosta, of FC Dallas, came in to act as a midfield disrupter in a formation that was a 3-4-3 in possession. It is the sort of dramatic rotation that, were Klinsmann still in the dug-out, might have inspired insinuations about his competence and/or sanity. But Arena’s pedigree, demeanour and the current performances of the team inspire more trust in his judgment.
The short rest between games was undoubtedly one factor; another, perhaps, was that with three points collected against T&T, Arena could afford to experiment at a venue where avoiding defeat felt likely to be a long-shot no matter who he picked.While Arena understandably fretted about the potential physical effects of the Azteca’s high altitude its factor as a competitive advantage risked being exaggerated; only two of the Mexico line-up play their club football in the country. The pace of the game hardly dipped as the night wore on, with both teams seeking a winner.
The 18-year-old Pulisic has become the US’s get-out-of-mediocrity free card, as he was in the fitful 2-0 win over bottom side T&T in the Denver suburbs last Thursday, scoring two second-half goals. On Sunday, though quieter, he made an adroit run and pass to set up a chance for Yedlin late in the first half, and an audacious attempted sand-wedge of a pass over the back line that was cleared.
Pulisic had boldly predicted victory ahead of this game. He had the opportunity to make his prophecy come true with two minutes remaining as he fashioned an enticing chance, but shot wide from the edge of the area. This time, for once, he would not be the headline-maker.
It was the kind of intense occasion that would have benefitted from firm officiating. But in the first three minutes, Salcedo was lucky to escape a booking for an elbow on DaMarcus Beasley, and seconds later, ought to have been sent off for another flailing arm that caught Bobby Wood.
Then came Bradley: it was the Toronto FC midfielder’s second international goal since July 2015 and a rare moment of adversity under Osorio; only the second goal Mexico had conceded in six Hex matches.
Chicharito should have levelled after 20 minutes when set clear, but with the ball bouncing, mishit his lob over Guzan and injured himself colliding with the goalkeeper, though he played on. The contest was tied soon after. On the counter-attack, Beasley – in his US-record fifth cycle of World Cup qualifiers – was unable to stop Vela cutting inside and dribbling along the edge of the penalty area, giving him enough of an angle to lash a low shot beyond Guzan. The US defender Omar Gonzalez fluffed a free header inside Mexico’s box as both teams looked dangerous, but went in at the break locked at 1-1.
More direct than Mexico – who worked the ball from side to side in search of space that the visitors mostly closed down effectively – the US were spirited in the second half and created a couple of half-chances.
Still, Mexico almost scored again with 20 minutes left as Hector Herrera cannoned a free kick off Guzan’s crossbar. Then came Bradley’s effort that hit the post. As rain fell in Mexico City, the Americans held on amid late pressure.
With a goalscoring turn from one of his stars and solid displays from lesser lights, Arena’s choice of players was vindicated and suggests a degree of depth that will give him the kind of selection problems that all managers relish as the US heads into this summer’s Gold Cup feeling good about making it to Russia.
Harry Kane’s late, late intervention was not to prove the final weekend blow landed on Gordon Strachan even if it was the most shuddering one. “I am absolutely shattered,” Strachan said. “That is probably the most emotional I have ever been after a game.”
Slovakia’s Group F victory in Lithuania on Saturday evening means Scotland remain fourth in the section, four points adrift of second and three from third. World Cup qualification remains a long shot, even if the pulsating boost afforded to Scotland by Leigh Griffiths’s outstanding double against England gave Strachan reason to believe.
“I wouldn’t be here if I didn’t,” the manager insisted. “If I didn’t believe it I think it would rub off on the players. The players can sniff that.”
Strachan’s own situation has, of course, been intrinsically linked to struggles which preceded the March win over Slovenia and briefly stirring events of Saturday. It now seems certain the 60-year-old will see out the campaign, which apart from anything else will be commercially and practically useful to the Scottish FA in terms of sourcing a replacement.
“I have got a way of dealing with it,” Strachan said regarding speculation. “What makes me strong is those players and everybody I have met this week. People come up to you and say: ‘Keep it up, keep it going.’ That energises you.
“You all know that I do keep a barrier between myself and the media. It is nothing against you guys. I can get on and do my job, then it doesn’t affect me. If it affected me then it would affect the players. You have seen the performances over the last couple of years. I have got no problem with that. Funnily enough, somebody said: ‘Would you go back to full-time [club] management?’ I said: ‘Yeah, with that group I would.’
“I actually get excited when it’s time to get together with them. I just love working with them. We have faults, we all know there are faults – but that’s not their fault, that’s the Scottish game.”
That widespread chasm between Scottish players and their English counterparts is not lost on any sane observer, albeit Strachan has regularly been guilty of underplaying what talent is actually at his disposal. Teams with less to pull upon have fared better than the Scots under Strachan’s guidance.
A case in point relates to Griffiths, whom Strachan showed a real reluctance to play until recently. The manager will claim it was a simple mistake but pointing towards Christophe Berra as a player at a Hearts team “who finished sixth” in Scotland was disingenuous; they did not, just as the centre-back was virtually an ever‑present player last season for Ipswich Town in the Championship, a division from which Strachan has always drawn heavily. Berra was actually one of Scotland’s best players on Saturday.
“Listen, we have to improve,” Strachan said. “But that’s a different story. We could sit here all night and talk about things that we have to do to make us better as a group. In general, we still have to improve a lot as a whole, Scottish players.
“What you can’t say, though, is can you improve on your work rate. Unless you stand out there in that tunnel with these [English] guys and then get knocked down you don’t know what it’s like. It’s like in rugby when you come up against a pack and that pack keeps knocking you back. It drains you. That’s what happened with these guys. It drains you. But they kept finding an energy from somewhere.”
Scotland would now be helped in part by England maintaining their imperious qualifying form against other teams in the group. “I hope so,” Strachan said. “That’s 35 games unbeaten [in tournament qualifiers] and it’s the closest they’ve been to losing that record.
“We had a moment in the day that a lot of us in football won’t forget. We will remember the noise after the second goal forever. It could have been the best ever. If you can leave memorable moments then you have given something to the game.”
Griffiths was so close to becoming a national hero. His international manager drew comparisons to David Beckham and his memorable free-kick goal for England against Greece in 2001. “Some people can do it after 20 minutes when they’re fresh,” Strachan said. “For Leigh to dig out these two late on was incredible. I actually thought the second one would go in as well, I really did.”
Harry Kane has spoken of his pride at captaining his country but insists England boast “plenty of leaders” in their ranks as Gareth Southgate contemplates who will wear the armband on a permanent basis.
The Tottenham Hotspur forward, who does not captain his club side, became the fifth captain of Southgate’s seven‑game tenure after Wayne Rooney, Gary Cahill, Joe Hart and Jordan Henderson at Hampden Park on Saturday and seized his opportunity by scoring the team’s 93rd‑minute equaliser. That timely intervention, just moments after two free-kicks by Leigh Griffiths had taken Scotland to the verge of a first win in this fixture in 17 years, maintained England’s unbeaten qualifying campaign at the top of Group F.
“I have said before I would love to be England captain,” said Kane, who had previously been denied the chance to represent Southgate’s team by injury and whose goal was his first for the national team in 13 months. “Obviously, I don’t know what the gaffer’s feeling is on it. He gave me the armband on Saturday and I went out there and gave it my best. When you are on the pitch, not much changes. We have got leaders in the team, and it is just that I am wearing the armband.
“I still play the same way. I still talk, I still shout in the same way. That is what is good about this team. People look at one player now to drag them through, but we have plenty of leaders in the team to try and change the game. For me it was great to get that goal and be captain, but whoever the gaffer chooses long-term, there are plenty of leaders.
“It was quite emotional to be given the chance. The manager told me just before training on Friday. He said he sees me as one of the leaders in the team, that was it. Nothing about it being permanent. I am sure he will make that decision when he is ready, but I was delighted to lead that team out. There were a lot of emotions, lots of proud feelings, and my family were delighted. It was something I have always dreamed about, as most kids do. So to be given that opportunity by the gaffer and how the game panned out, to manage to score in the last minute was a very proud moment.
“It was probably the most special moment, personally, of my career so far. I did not want to lose my first game as captain, that is for sure – especially against Scotland. So to score that goal … it has been a while since I scored a goal for England. It was a special feeling for me.”
Kane took his first steps at international level under Rooney’s leadership, having broken into the Spurs first team with Hugo Lloris – France’s first-choice captain – wearing the armband. “A good captain leads by example, on and off the pitch,” the Spurs forward said. “You have a responsibility off the pitch with the media, and to kids coming through, and being a role model. I am quite a calm character. I’m not someone who gets too irate or too low. I have a steady mind and I know my ambitions, I know what I want to do, and this team has great ambition. I am one of many who could be captain.
“When I first came into the England squad, Wazza was great with me. He talked to me. Even as I was doing well with my club he was giving me a little phone call or text to say: ‘Things could change for you as you play more and get bigger.’ He was great with that, giving me his experiences of what he had gone through.
“I played under Hugo Lloris, France’s captain, who I will see on Tuesday. He is totally different. He is very calm, you respect him. I’ve had great captains in my career so far and if I can take anything from any of them I will be happy.”
Joe Hart has admitted he has no idea where he will be playing his club football next season with no firm offers having been lodged for his services, but is confident Manchester City will not price him out of the market as he seeks a fresh start this summer.
The England goalkeeper, who will sit out the friendly fixture against France in Paris on Tuesday with Gareth Southgate expected to offer Jack Butland a first appearance in 15 months, was a high-profile early victim of Pep Guardiola’s tenure at the Etihad Stadium and has just completed a season-long loan at Torino in Serie A. The Italian club are not seeking to make that transfer permanent, with the coach, Sinisa Mihajlovic, suggesting they cannot afford Hart’s £110,000-a-week wages, but Hart has not spoken personally to anyone at City since rejoining the ranks.
The club have since signed the uncapped Brazilian goalkeeper Ederson from Benfica for £35m to leave Hart in no doubt that he has no future at the club he joined 11 years ago. No clubs have crystallised their interest as yet, and it may be that Hart has to accept an opportunity outside the elite bracket, and potentially a pay cut, at the likes of West Ham United, Everton, Newcastle United or Crystal Palace if he is to secure a move to another Premier League side.
“Something’s going to happen, one way or another, but it’s almost in the hands of the businessmen now,” he said. “They have obviously signed the new keeper, and I get the direction [in which they are moving]. There is no real need for me to talk to them. I’m lucky enough to have management who deal with that side of things. I think they spoke to my agent. There is no animosity between the two teams; they are going about their business, and we are going to go about ours.
“Look, I would love to give you a poker-straight answer as to where I’ll be next season, but I’ve got nothing at the moment. I’d love to be ‘withholding information’ about my future, but I don’t have the information to withhold. People are focused on international duty and respecting that players are focused on international duty. Come Tuesday night, after that is when conversations can be had and people can start being real. My personal situation is interesting, and patience is going to have to be the key.”
City have now spent more than £50m on Ederson and Claudio Bravo since Guardiola determined Hart’s distribution from the back was not of the standard he required, and that pair are now competing for the No1 jersey at the Etihad. Asked if he knew what the club’s asking price for him would be, Hart said: “I don’t know exactly. It’s hard to say what is ‘realistic’. Football is a business, at the end of the day. You can’t judge, realistically. The millions and zillions of pounds that get paid for someone to come and play football for you, in the real world, is strange. In the business world, the football world, it’s not.
“But I certainly don’t think they are going to try and price me out of a move. I think there’s enough respect between the player and club to work together. There’s no point in working against [each other]. There is no animosity between the two. They are going in their direction and I need to go in mine. It’s about what is considered to be market value and what gets agreed between the two clubs.”
Yet Hart, who kept five clean sheets in 36 games for Torino and was criticised by the club president, Urbano Cairo, who claimed to have been “surprised” at the number of mistakes the goalkeeper made, has conceded his departure will have to be on a permanent move. “If the switch is what needs to happen, and that’s key, then we all need stability in our life,” he said. “I’m not a kid any more. I can’t just pack my stuff, like a 17 or 19-year-old, and go on loan. I am a 30-year-old man with stuff I need to organise. I like stability.”
“There is an ideal situation to come out of this but nothing is perfect. It’s a short career and football is crazy, so I have to be prepared for anything. I just want to play football. I love football. It’s what I live and breathe, and I want to play football at the highest possible level I can play. That’s the plan.”
The England goalkeeper was beaten by two late Leigh Griffiths free-kicks at Hampden Park on Saturday, before Harry Kane salvaged a point in stoppage time, and his absence at the Stade de France will be one of a number of changes to Southgate’s side. Butland has not represented his country since fracturing his ankle in a friendly win in Germany in March 2016 and is likely to start, with Fraser Forster and Tom Heaton also in the squad.
It was difficult, listening to Joe Hart’s version of events, not to suspect he was putting on a front at a time when there has to be a legitimate debate about whether someone in his position – no future at Manchester City, no idea where he might end up next and, perhaps understandably, little of the old assuredness – still warrants his place in the England team.
Hart had just been through the videos of the two free-kicks Leigh Griffiths had put either side of him during that wild finish to England’s 2-2 draw in Scotland and there was no indication that a goalkeeper with 71 caps, nine years at this level and more clean sheets than anyone in that position other than Peter Shilton and David Seaman, considered himself to be at fault.
“As a goalkeeper, you set your wall up, and sometimes there’s nothing you can do,” was Hart’s take. “He’s produced two bits of quality. They weren’t sidefoots, they weren’t curlers, they were what I call ‘heavy’ – my boring goalkeeping technical term. He put them over the wall, then they picked up pace and sometimes you have to say well done.
“I went over to him at the end to say well done because that’s my personality, hate it or love it. I wanted to congratulate him and talk about it because I was interested about his thought process, too. To do it twice in a few minutes, after not really having a sniff the whole game, was a big moment for him. He took one with a minute to go in the game at Wembley and used a different technique. It’s a free shot from 25 yards and unfortunately his training has paid off.
“I asked my wall to jump but not excessively because people are clever now and they go underneath, but I’ve seen it again and we would have needed four or five Peter Crouches in that wall to make a difference. What else can you say? Sometimes you just have to say well done.”
And he was right, to some extent, bearing in mind the lopsided amount of attention that has been paid to Hart’s goalkeeping rather than the elegance of those strikes – first to his left, then his right – from the Scotland striker.
Unfortunately for Hart, these are not the first moments that have left the clear impression he is not the goalkeeper of old and the truth is neither free-kick was aimed fully into the corner of his net. From that distance, an elite goalkeeper would not normally be beaten twice and nobody could really take issue with Gareth Southgate if England’s manager is concerned about the way Hart’s career, at the age of 30, appears to be drifting.
As it turns out, Southgate will remove him from the team to play France in Paris on Tuesday, a decision that Hart did not seem to have been notified about as he talked about devoting time to studying the free-kick techniques of Dimitri Payet and Paul Pogba. That, however, is not Hart being dropped, even if Southgate is aware it might be perceived that way.
“Our intention was always to give someone else a game,” Southgate said. “However it looks, I will have to ride that out. I am seeing a headline that says ‘Hart is not safe’‚ but the fact is we need competition in every position. Who knows who will be fit and available [in the World Cup]? Too many times we have got to a tournament when a key player is not fully fit. We cannot rely on one or two players.”
All of which makes perfect sense now Jack Butland has recovered from his broken ankle, with Tom Heaton and Fraser Forster also in better form than England’s established No1, and not forgetting the credentials of Jordan Pickford, currently preparing for the Under-21 European Championship.
Southgate’s tone was supportive, on the whole, but Hart is in a state of limbo, back at Manchester City after a patchy loan arrangement with Torino but acutely aware he has no future under Pep Guardiola, the manager who fast-tracked him out of the club. In the circumstances, with zero offers from other teams, it is probably no surprise that Hart has never fully regained his best form since the ordeal of Euro 2016.
“I am sure he will be playing at a high level,” Southgate said. “He has had an important experience abroad. His contribution [for England] has been high and without his save against Slovenia we would be worse off in the qualifying group. For me, the goals were two moments of high quality, but we will look at them.”
Southgate’s hope is that Hart’s club situation will be resolved by the time England resume their World Cup qualifying programme against Malta and Slovakia, Group F’s second-placed side, at the start of September.
In the meantime, the former England captain Terry Butcher was among those calling for Southgate to change his goalkeeper and there was at least an acknowledgement from Hart that he was vulnerable. “This shirt’s not mine,” he said. “It’s not nailed-on mine, it’s no one’s. We’ve got high-quality goalkeepers and I will have to be playing at a good, well, at the top level, to the maximum of my ability, even to get in the squad.
“I am not a robot. Sometimes I do have thoughts about it [the uncertainty]. But there is nothing to get down about. It’s another exciting adventure, another move, the next step in my career, the next challenge for me personally. I love personal challenges. I have never shied away from one and I don’t intend to now.”
After San Juan there should be no need to talk up Santa Fe. Argentina and England put on one of the more exhilarating matches of modern times, a try-laden festival of dynamic rugby that twisted this way and that right up to the last, when Denny Solomona’s brilliant solo score tilted the balance one final time in favour of England.
It was an extraordinary exhibition of skill and nerve by an England side shorn of 30 players. Ten new caps were blooded, the most by England since 1956. By any rational measure they ought to be well satisfied, the second Test next weekend no more than a bonus opportunity to play a bit more rugby before a well-earned rest at the end of a long season. But Eddie Jones does not do satisfied. Already he has defied his put-upon youngsters to seize this last opportunity if they want to stand a chance of making the 2019 World Cup.
“This next Test is really important for these players,” he said. “They have to understand they may get only one game to have the opportunity to show they are good enough to be in contention for the next World Cup. You can always get those X-factor players who suddenly come through. We have seen a few now who previously we didn’t have on the radar. You always want that to happen. But, generally speaking I would think 80% of the [World Cup] squad will come from the next 45-man squad [announced in August].”
When Jones speaks of X-factor he might as well be holding up a portrait of Solomona, whose debut here was just about as wild and unpredictable as he could have dreamt it would be and, as such, a neat microcosm of the match. He came on in the 50th minute and within three minutes had missed three tackles, conceding two tries in the process. England’s six-point lead had transformed itself into an eight-point deficit – and Solomona must have been wondering what he was doing in this strange land, this strange sport.
“I think he was just so nervous,” Jones said. “The big occasion got to him. But the great thing is he bounced back. He had one opportunity to carry the ball and it was a fantastic carry.”
In the 79th minute England finally worked the ball to him – and then he remembered spectacularly what he was all about, smashing through, stepping around and streaking away from a variety of hapless defenders for the winning try.
“It’s unreal,” he said. “I think that is the best and worst debut I have had in my life! It is definitely different, a lot more intense than I thought. I can’t remember the build-up to the try. I just remember putting the ball down and being overwhelmed with joy and pride. I made a couple of mistakes but hopefully redeemed myself.”
As with Solomona, so with England. The error count in the first half in particular was high – from both teams – but Argentina, with a good deal more experience, even if they are without a host of world-class talent themselves, looked as if they might administer the kind of lesson no one enjoys having to endure. In the Pumas’ case the absentees are voluntary, their policy of selecting only home-based players as strict as that of the All Blacks, but they retained enough quality to dominate England at the set piece. And their reputation for running rugby is well earned, with Martin Landajo, Nicolás Sánchez and Matias Moroni dazzling at times. They fielded a new cap of their own, Emiliano Boffelli, a strapping winger who scored the game’s first try. The names are worth remembering. They are in England’s World Cup pool and will be lethal.
But they made mistakes, too, and England punished them as ruthlessly as Argentina did theirs. Mark Wilson had a fantastic debut on one flank and will not surrender his shirt lightly with Chris Robshaw back in contention this week. On the other Tom Curry, 19 this Thursday, gave promise of a long career, mixing the fearless with the dextrous.
Surpassing them all, though, was George Ford, who had his best game in an England shirt, pulling the Pumas’ defence into all manner of uncomfortable positions and racking up 25 points. “He’s a young stand-off,” Jones said. “He’s 24, still learning his trade and I thought it was certainly a good performance. He kept in the game and kept in control and gave the team what we needed. He definitely kicked well.”
The show moves on to Santa Fe, via Buenos Aires where England are basing themselves. Robshaw has recovered from his ankle injury but more new caps can be expected as Jones extends those precious opportunities to outsiders to convince him. He is building England an enviable stock of resources for now and the future but as ever prizes above all else the life force of recurring victory.
“We know Argentina are going to respond. It’s always the case when one side win and one side lose. The side who lose go back over every detail of how they lost. They come up with a game plan and perform it energetically. We have got to treat this like a loss and make sure we have the same intent to improve from the last game.”
No, Santa Fe should not require a further raising of the stakes but it is going to get one anyway.
Argentina Tuculet; Moroni, Orlando, De la Fuente, Boffelli (Moyano 62); Sánchez (Hernández 62), Landajo (Bertranou 69); Noguera Paz (Garcia Botta 70), Creevy (capt; Montoya 48), Pieretto, Alemanno, Lavanini (Petti 48), Matera, Ortega Desio, Leguizamon (Senatore 58).
Tries Boffelli, Lavanini, De la Fuente, Tuculet Cons Sánchez 4 Pen Sánchez Drop goal Hernández.
England Brown; Yarde (Solomona 50), Slade, Lozowski (Francis 55), May; Ford, Care (Maunder 78); Genge (Mullan 55), Hartley (capt), Williams (Collier 62), Launchbury, Ewels (Isiekwe 78), Wilson, T Curry (Armand 71), Hughes. Tries Yarde, May, Ford, Solomona Cons Ford 3 Pens Ford 4.
Referee Nigel Owens (Wales) Attendance 25,000.
Aaron Ramsey could not have picked a better place to convert a Panenka penalty as Wales secured a precious point against the Group D leaders, Serbia, to keep alive their hopes of qualifying for the World Cup finals next summer, yet it was a night tinged with regret for Chris Coleman and his players after they allowed victory to slip through their fingers for the fourth time in this campaign.
Playing in the stadium where Antonin Panenka first produced that nonchalant chipped spot-kick, in the 1976 European Championship final for Czechoslovakia against West Germany, Ramsey showed nerves of steel to deliver his own version and for a long time that penalty looked like being the defining moment in the game.
Wales, who were missing the suspended Gareth Bale, played with a great deal of courage and discipline to frustrate Serbia but with 17 minutes remaining Alexsandar Mitrovic broke through on the left to equalise, denying the visitors the win that would have made such a huge difference with only four fixtures remaining.
Sitting in third place and trailing Serbia and the Republic of Ireland by four points after a fifth successive draw, Coleman admitted that Wales now have no margin for error in the rest of the campaign if they want to top the group. “I think realistically, if we want to finish first, [we need] four wins,” the Wales manager said. “If we want to take our chance in a play-off, it’s at least three wins and a draw.”
That challenge starts in early September with a home fixture against Austria and an away trip to Moldova. The bad news for Wales it that Joe Allen will miss the Austria match through suspension after picking up a yellow card against Serbia. The good news is that Bale will be available again.
That Wales coped so well without the Real Madrid forward here owes much to the performance of Ramsey, who was superb. Playing just behind Sam Vokes, Wales’ lone forward, Ramsey used the ball intelligently and made some excellent forward runs to relieve pressure and stretch the Serbia defence. He also converted a penalty kick to remember.
“I didn’t see that coming if I’m honest with you,” Coleman said. “But I had no doubt he’d score because he’s playing with such confidence at the moment. His overall performance was absolutely outstanding. He seems to thrive on that responsibility. It’s not the first time he’s run a game for us.
“His input tonight was immense. If we didn’t have him, I’m not sure we’d have come away with what we did because I thought when we needed someone to keep the ball, hold it and give us a rest, he was fantastic. And the penalty – the noise the supporters make here is incredible but it didn’t matter to him. Full of confidence and a fantastic finish.”
Asked whether he thought Ramsey was deliberately trying to copy Panenka’s penalty because it was the same venue, Coleman said: “Do you know what, I’m pretty sure that he probably hasn’t even seen it. But it was identical. It’s what we thought as soon as he did it. But I don’t think that would have been in Aaron’s thinking.”
It was an audacious piece of skill and came after a comedy of errors from Serbia’s point of view. Vladimir Stojkovic, the Serbia goalkeeper, made a pig’s ear of dealing with Ben Davies’s long ball and ended up bringing down Ramsey just outside the area when he realised that he was unable to shepherd the ball out of play. From the resultant free-kick Luka Milivojevic was penalised for pulling Sam Vokes’s shirt and Ramsey, with a delightful dink into the corner of the net, did the rest.
That goal turned the volume down in a stadium that was a cauldron of noise but it rose again when Serbia equalised. Nemanja Gudelj released a measured pass behind Davies and it was a lovely flick from Aleksandar Prijovic that Mitrovic dispatched inside Wayne Hennessey’s near post. Ramsey, breaking into the area with yet another well-timed run, could still have won it for Wales but his shot with the outside of his boot was turned behind by Stojkovic.
An emotional Rafael Nadal described his 10th French Open title as the perfect end to a perfect fortnight after he made history at Roland Garros on Sunday. The 31‑year‑old Spaniard’s 6-2, 6-3, 6-1 victory against Stan Wawrinka of Switzerland made him the first man to win any of the grand slam events 10 times, a feat he achieved without dropping a single set.
“This has been, I think, a perfect Roland Garros for me,” said Nadal, who dropped just 35 games in total on his way to a 15th grand slam title but his first for three years.
Nadal was shown a montage of his 10 victories before the trophy presentation and said the historic nature of the triumph added to his satisfaction. “It is true that this one is going to be one of the more special for the number, for what happened on the ceremony after the final, for so many things,” he said. “And because I am 31 already and not a kid any more. Today was a very important day for me. [There] have been some tough moments last times, injuries, so it’s great to have big success like this again.” Nadal said when he first won the title in 2005 he would not have imagined he would still be playing in 2017, let alone winning, and said 10 titles had a special ring to it. “As I like to say, if I can do it, someone else can do it,” he said. “But you need the right circumstances, the right ingredients to win 10 French Open titles. I don’t know if I will ever get to meet the player who will do better than I did. It has been very special to me, and it’s true that it is unprecedented. Trust me, I’m very happy that I’m the one who did it. I’m very happy.”
Wawrinka, who lost a grand slam final for the first time, said he had been beaten by a man at the peak of his game. “For sure he’s playing the best he’s ever played,” Wawrinka said. “But not only here. I think since the beginning of the year, you can see he’s playing more aggressive, staying more close [to] the line. But that’s clearly the best he has ever played. That’s why he’s winning so much again.”
The Swiss said he had recovered well physically from the effort of defeating Andy Murray in a semi-final which lasted more than four and a half hours, but that mentally the efforts of the past few weeks had caught up with him.
“From the beginning from my side, for sure, I didn’t play my best tennis,” he said. “I think I was a little bit hesitating with my selection of shots. I was always a little bit between [thoughts]. One, because I play against him and he puts this doubt in your head when you play against him because he’s playing so well. And second, all the effort I have been doing [in the] last few weeks to get to my best level again, to get some confidence again, and to win all those matches … some tough matches.”
Wawrinka said the positives of the fortnight outweighed the negatives of losing a grand slam final, having shrugged off a poor clay-court season to make the final for the second time in three years. Nadal’s 10th win, he said, was an incredible achievement. “It’s something tough to describe when you just say you won 10 French Opens,” he said. “It’s a grand slam, but it’s the same grand slam. That’s something so big for the sport. He’s the best-ever player on clay.”
Nadal said his chances at Wimbledon, where he has not won since 2010, depended on how his aching knees respond on the grass. “If I have pain in the knees, then I know from experience that it’s almost impossible,” he said. “Because I need to feel strong, low and powerful legs to play well in Wimbledon. If I don’t feel that, then probably my chances are not there, no? But if I am healthy and I am able to have the right preparation and feel healthy during Wimbledon, then I am probably going to have my chances to play well.”
Greg Eden continued the remarkable revival of his career when he ran in five tries as Castleford took another important step towards ending their 91-year wait to win the championship with a resounding victory over Warrington which left them six points clear at the top of Super League.
On this form the 26-year-old winger looks capable of eclipsing the 40 tries scored by Denny Solomona last season to set the competition’s record before he departed for rugby union. This was Eden’s fifth hat-trick in six games – including a Challenge Cup treble against St Helens – taking his season’s tally to 30 in 18 league games.
Castleford’s coach Daryl Powell, who recruited Eden when he was at a low point following a spell in the National Rugby League with Brisbane, said: “The people on the inside of him do an outstanding job but he’s an incredible finisher. But we were scratchy in the second half I thought, and Warrington came back at us.”
Just as Powell takes great credit over the Eden project, he equally deserves plaudits for turning the Tigers into a side who are the undisputed favourites for the Grand Final at Old Trafford in October.
In recent weeks his team have shown an essential hallmark of a championship team by winning when they are below their best. That was never more evident than against St Helens last Sunday and, while mesmerising in patches here, they were again far from perfect yet still ran out comfortable victors.
Warrington were the last side to defeat Castleford at home, in July 2016. But the chance of a repeat here was all but over by the end of a frenetic opening quarter in which the Tigers, with prop Andy Lynch playing the 500th game of his career, had opened up a commanding 20-0 lead after the Warrington captain, Chris Hill, had been sent to the sin-bin.
That early burst was typical of so many of Castleford’s victories this season where a flurry of points in a short, sharp spell have proved decisive. “It made it hard to win from there,” the Warrington coach, Tony Smith, said.
His team are now 11 points adrift of the top four and it appears their Challenge Cup quarter-final against Wigan on Saturday may well be season-defining. However, there is still the possibility of last season’s beaten grand finalists facing a battle against relegation in the Qualifiers. To illustrate the gulf in class between these two sides, Eden’s five tries here were one fewer than the six Warrington have managed in their past four games combined.
The early signs were ominous for Warrington when they fell behind after three minutes as Luke Gale’s kick was claimed by Eden for the first of his haul. Hill’s yellow card proved a pivotal moment, as in his absence Castleford took control of the match with tries from Eden, Greg Minikin and Mike McMeeken.
Tom Lineham’s try shortly after Hill’s return reduced the deficit, although only temporarily, with normal service quickly resumed when Eden completed a hat-trick following a looping pass from Junior Moors – whose knee injury was the only blot on another successful afternoon for the league leaders.
The second half was much more closely fought and Warrington managed to score the game’s final two tries through Joe Westerman and Jack Hughes, but by that stage far too much damage had already been done to their cause.
Eden scored his fourth and fifth tries and, for a brief moment, it looked like he would become only the second player in Super League history after the Bradford great Lesley Vainikolo to score six in a game. That was not to be but, on this evidence, there are still plenty more to come from him this season.
Castleford Hardaker; Minikin, Monaghan, Shenton, Eden; Roberts, Gale; Lynch, McShane, Millington, Sene-Lefao, McMeeken, Massey. Interchange Milner, Moors, Holmes, Foster.
Tries Eden 5, Minikin, McMeeken. Goals Gale 4.
Warrington Dagger; Penny, Ratchford, Blythe, Lineham; Patton, Westerman; Hill, Clark, Sims, Jullien, Hughes, Cooper. Interchange Dwyer, King, Savelio, Philbin.
Tries Lineham, Westerman, Hughes. Goals Patton 2.
Referee J Child. Attendance 8,577.
Always a happy hunting ground for Lewis Hamilton, the Canadian Grand Prix was once again conquered by the British driver but his skill was rewarded to a much greater extent than merely claiming his sixth win at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve. While Hamilton led from pole to flag in a race in which he never relinquished control and followed the Mercedes team’s plan to perfection, his Formula One world championship rival Sebastian Vettel endured a trying afternoon from which he did well to manage a strong comeback. But it remained a major blow, the German’s fourth-place finish cutting his 25-point advantage over Hamilton to 12.
Hamilton led a Mercedes one-two, their first of the season, his team-mate Valtteri Bottas finishing second with the Red Bull of Daniel Ricciardo third. Ferrari had been stymied almost from the start. Vettel suffered damage on the opening lap and was forced to play catch-up while his team-mate, Kimi Raikkonen, lost places off the grid and had to adopt an alternate strategy, managing to finish only seventh.
Hamilton, who gained his debut F1 win here in 2007, relished the success. “You always need weekends like this,” he said. “There was a lot of time to think when I was out front, reliving the memories of 2007, really being able to absorb the moment and enjoy driving the car. It was a challenge but it was like other races I have had here, well managed from the front. I love driving this track.”
Hamilton had indeed been untouchable in front. He was in a class of his own in qualifying and a race of his own on Sunday. It continues the remarkably successful run that began with his first victory here and puts him one behind Michael Schumacher’s record of seven wins. Having taken the chequered flag in China and Spain already he is now honours even with Vettel – they have three wins apiece – and crucially within touching distance of the German in the title tussle, while his mastery of this demanding track on the Île Notre-Dame is simply beyond doubt. The deft touch and steely nerve that Montreal demands were once again to the fore and, although he was not under pressure, he did not put a foot wrong. “There was no trouble today,” he said. “It was a beautiful Sunday drive.”
With the order upset Force India took advantage and, aided by their upgraded Mercedes power unit, Sergio Pérez and Esteban Ocon were in the mix throughout. They drove superbly to finish fifth and sixth but the team faced a difficult debrief afterwards for not allowing Ocon, quicker than his team-mate in the latter stages, through, thereby assisting Vettel’s attempt to catch and pass them both.
Vettel had to pursue his own singular race and did so with admirable determination. The German had jumped Hamilton at the start of this race in 2016 but there was no repeat performance. Instead he was caught by the Red Bull of Max Verstappen.
Verstappen had an electric start and shot up the outside into turn one, while Vettel dropped two spots into fourth but he had not only lost places. The Dutch driver clipped Vettel’s right front wing and he subsequently also suffered from a damaged floor. It changed the complexion of Vettel’s afternoon immediately. A stop for a new wing followed, forcing him into a two-stop strategy, while Hamilton could stick to his plan, staying out long on the quicker ultra soft rubber and pitting only once, the optimum for the race, but Vettel was determined to limit the damage.
After his final stop he came out in seventh and a chase to the finish ensued. Raikkonen was first to fall. The Finn, suffering from brake issues, went straight on at the final chicane and Vettel passed him for sixth place on lap 61. On a charge he passed Ocon in a superb move into turn one on lap 66 to go fifth and then went after Pérez. This was thrilling stuff at the end and it paid off. Vettel pulled off another remarkable move through the final chicane on lap 69 to finish fourth – a result that looked unthinkable after the opening lap.
He was, nevertheless, disappointed but accepted the clash at the start had been a racing incident. “The beginning of the race did not go our way but I still believed we could fight back,” he said. “Three cars into turn one does not work. He [Verstappen] ran over my front wing. You don’t do that on purpose because of the chance of a puncture.”
Lance Stroll, the Canadian rookie, scored his first points in Formula One at his home grand prix, with what was by far his best drive of the season, finishing in ninth for Williams.
Renault’s Nico Hülkenberg came in eighth and the Haas of Romain Grosjean 10th while McLaren took another step towards a divorce from Honda after Fernando Alonso’s engine gave out on the penultimate lap.
But the day had belonged to Hamilton as it has so often in Montreal. Niki Lauda, the Mercedes non-executive chairman, acknowledged they had got everything right. “The whole team is back,” he said. “This race weekend was perfect.”
He was understandably pleased because it was enough for Mercedes to retake the lead in the constructors’ championship from Ferrari by eight points. The team’s executive director, Toto Wolff, described it as an afternoon that was a “cruise” and so it had been for Hamilton. But he executed the race perfectly and leaves Canada not only with a winning feeling but right back in the title fight.
Only the foolish would celebrate too hard the Wallabies’ 37-14 win against a spirited Fijian outfit in Melbourne on Saturday. Yes, of course Karmichael Hunt is a massive positive takeaway point – he was magnificent at 12 and is a match-day 23 keeper – but, overall, coach Michael Cheika should be deeply concerned about his side’s atrocious catch-and-pass skills.
It’s such a glaring inadequacy it renders all positives moot: Australia will lose more often than not against top tier opposition until players learn how to catch and pass accurately – and that means putting the ball in the space in front of support runners, and not behind them whereby players need to check their run and thus lose attacking momentum.
With the exception of two of the five Australian tries, the Wallabies were unquestionably poor at this fundamental aspect of the game. In fact, on this showing the Wallabies have never looked further adrift of the All Blacks who are undisputed masters of this core skill.
Poor catch-and-pass skills have been a blight on the Australian game for nigh on a decade now, and particularly so in the last two Super Rugby seasons. It has reached the point where excuses are regularly trotted out: “the Kiwis are innately better because they learn these skills from a younger age”, and so on. Indeed, that’s a reason why New Zealand rugby players catch and pass so well by default. But it’s not an excuse for Australian players being as inadequate as they are now. In fact, Australia used to be the envy of the rugby world for this elementary skill set with the Ella brothers, Michael Lynagh, Stephen Larkham, David Knox, Lloyd Walker to name a few leading exponents.
There simply isn’t a good enough reason for the Wallabies to be so lacking in this basic aspect of the game. It’s not as if it’s beyond them – the interchange between Hunt and Bernard Foley to put Israel Folau away for a gem of a try was a perfect example of flawless execution; players coming onto the ball in space – or where the space will be – and at pace. That was a classic Wallabies try of the kind we rarely see these days.
If Cheika and skills coach Mick Byrne (the former All Blacks kick and pass specialist) can sort out the Wallabies catch-and-pass basics, Australia can at least be competitive against the All Blacks during this year’s Bledisloe Cup/Rugby Championship. On the weekend’s showing though, the Wallabies will struggle to beat Scotland next up.
Cheika would have been pleased with what the Fijians brought to the contest. It’s always a coaching bonus to take big learnings away from a game which has been comfortably won. Too often these lessons only come from heartbreaking losses.
Unfortunately, one of the lessons from Saturday is that Wallabies captain Stephen Moore, 34, might not make it to the 2019 World Cup in Japan. Moore is backing himself to improve, but unless there’s a sharp upturn on what he showed off the bench against Fiji it might be the end for him. Michael Hooper’s permanent captaincy claims are becoming irresistible.
What of the Fijians, who will, likely qualification permitting, again play Australia in the World Cup pool stages? There is no mistaking Fiji are a team on the rise. Leone Nakarawa was magnificent and troubled the Wallabies no end. He truly is a world class player at the peak of his game.
The 37-14 scoreline suggests a comfortable Wallabies victory but it was far from that. Fiji butchered several try-scoring opportunities which, had passes stuck, could have seen the islanders sneak a famous win. The Wallabies would have noted the big omissions of Montpellier winger Nemani Nadolo and Toulon’s Josua Tuisova. And if Fiji can find a quality fly-half – Ben Volavola is simply not international quality – then it could be game on at the World Cup.
Surrey’s recent record at Guildford, where they are winless since 2002, is abysmal and they require a broad backbone to avoid defeat against Essex. With three second-innings wickets in hand they are 217 ahead; victory would take Essex, without a County Championship title since 1992, top of Division One.
Essex are making a superb fist of life in the top flight, and this was one of their best days yet. Ryan ten Doeschate swelled their first innings advantage to 36 with an unbeaten 168, his top score for Essex, then Simon Harmer, finding drift, turn and bounce with men round the bat, and Jamie Porter, hammering at a length and doing just enough with the ball, bowled beautifully to share seven Surrey wickets. Surrey’s hopes lie with Ben Foakes, once of Essex, who has 46.
Ten Doeschate had guided the tail through the first 90 minutes of the day, turning down singles but bunting boundaries between the men in the deep. In the half-hour before lunch, Surrey lost Mark Stoneman, caught at first slip off Porter as second slip parried, but Rory Burns and Scott Borthwick bedded in to share 93 in the face of probing bowling.
By tea, both were gone, though. Borthwick was well taken at short leg off Harmer, then Burns – who had driven nicely in his 57 – was bemused to be given out caught down the legside off Porter. Again, with the lead not yet 100, it was left to Kumar Sangakkara to bail Surrey out. This time he could not, beaten by Harmer’s turn and caught behind in 26 that saw him pass 900 runs for the season.
Dom Sibley was then trapped in front by one that stayed low from Porter, and Sam Curran was well caught at cover off Harmer. Eighteen overs of resistance from Foakes with Gareth Batty was ended by a catch at short leg, giving Harmer – an increasingly canny Kolpak signing – his fourth. Surrey need to grow their lead plenty: while scoring is becoming trickier (particularly off the good length frequented by Porter), boundaries continue to flow and Essex’s batting, as Ten Doeschate showed first time round, is very well stocked.
Middlesex have not lost since the final game of the 2015 season but a torrid performance at Southport leaves them requiring a superb final day to escape without defeat against Lancashire. Ryan McLaren’s 75 and some late humpty from Tom Bailey carried Lancashire from 136 for six to 309 and a first-innings lead of 129, with Tim Murtagh picking up six for 63.
The champions were instantly in trouble, though. They were six down and still behind, with Steve Parry taking three wickets and Saqib Mahmood two, before the shop was steadied by Dawid Malan and James Harris. With four wickets in hand, they lead by just 27.
At Taunton, the equation is simple: Somerset need 161 runs, Yorkshire need six wickets. The visitors piled up 283 in their second innings, with Gary Ballance left stranded two shy of his fourth century of the season, to set Somerset 262 for victory. Dom Bess, the 19-year-old offspinner, worked his way through 36 overs to record five for 80. Somerset made a poor start to the chase, with Steve Patterson took three wickets as they fell to 49 for four. Steve Davies and Adam Hose, on Championship debut, shared an unbeaten 52 to leave the final day tantalisingly poised.
Durham’s wait for a Division Two win lags on, as Kent batted throughout the final day to remain unbeaten, with Sam Northeast making 72 and the last pair, Yasir Shah and Mitchell Claydon, surviving 46 deliveries to secure the draw nine wickets down. Durham’s maximum bonus points will be no tonic: they remain on minus nine points.
Worcestershire, having won their first four games of the season, have lost their way in the wake of the saga that’s seen Tom Kohler-Cadmore join his native Yorkshire with immediate effect. On day one, they had Glamorgan 58 for six, trailing by 209, but they ended up losing by nine wickets before lunch on the third day. Michael Hogan took five wickets to bowl Worcestershire out for 129, before Glamorgan knocked off the required 16 for the loss of just Nick Selman for their second win of the summer.
Northamptonshire recorded their fourth win of the summer, over Derbyshire by 128 runs. Conor McKerr, a 19-year-old seamer on loan from Surrey, took his second five-wicket haul to finish with match figures of 10 for 141 as Northants subsided from 225 for one to 277 all out in their second innings. They responded, though, by bowling Derbyshire out for 191. The absent Luis Reece is feeling better after suffering breathing difficulties on the first day.
Nottinghamshire, are well placed to extend their lead at the top of Division Two after Samit Patel racked up an unbeaten 257 not out, a career best, in their 535 for eight declared against Gloucestershire. That was a lead of 232, and the hosts lost Cameron Bancroft to Luke Fletcher as they reached stumps 30 for one. Nottinghamshire will have James Pattinson available for their One-Day Cup knockout match against Somerset on Tuesday.
Jofra Archer confirmed his status as one of the game’s most promising fast bowlers by turning Sussex’s match with Leicestershire on its head. He took six for 70 (giving him match figures of 11 for 137) as Leicestershire were bowled out for 175 in their second innings (all the more impressive given Sussex were without the injured Vernon Philander), leaving Sussex a target of 232. They closed 100 for two.
Racing’s ruling body has denied undue delay in considering a licence application by Suzi Best, wife of Jim, whose licence to train was suspended at the end of a protracted and troubled non-trier case last year. The Guardian can reveal that Suzi Best’s application will now be considered at a hearing on 19 June, the very last day on which her husband is suspended.
Privately British Horseracing Authority officials insist this is nothing more than a coincidence and certainly does not amount to evidence of victimisation. They are prevented from offering any direct comment by the rules of racing, which insist that licensing proceedings are confidential and must not be discussed in public by either side.
Asked why it would take so long to consider a licence application that was made in the first half of December, a BHA spokesman confined himself to explaining the system in general terms rather than discussing Best’s case. “Generally the time required to determine a licence application can vary depending on a number of factors, including the amount of additional information required and how quickly that information is provided,” he said.
Approached for comment, Jim Best declined to discuss his wife’s application, saying he had no wish to antagonise the BHA further. He added that he had not been to the races in the past six months, even though there was nothing in his suspension to prevent him from going, because he was concerned that his presence might be viewed as inappropriate.
However, it was clearly the hope of the Best family, at the time of Suzi’s application, that she would be given a licence before her husband’s suspension ended and keep the business going at their stable near Lewes in Sussex. In a December interview with The Guardian Jim Best pointed to the concern shown by the BHA’s disciplinary panel for the future of staff employed at the yard. “I don’t think it was the chairman’s intention for [the business] to be totally finished,” he said.
The BHA’s decision to refer Suzi Best’s application to its licensing committee is in contrast to its handling of the jockey Paul John, who had already admitted stopping two horses when he applied to get his licence back a year ago. John claimed Best had told him to stop the horses and was the only BHA witness against Best in hearings in February and November last year, which resulted in a finding against Best, despite his denials. The BHA decided not to oppose John’s application, which was duly granted, prompting concern from licensing committee members.
The committee chairman, Richard Russell, sent an email to ask: “Why was Paul John not referred to us? The only reason I can even think of is that, until the Jim Best case has been retried, the BHA did not want Paul John going before the licensing committee or any of its other independent committees. Another of my committee made the comment: ‘I am sure nothing untoward has happened but it just savours a little bit of a done deal in a way that a decision by us cannot.’”
The disciplinary panel in Best’s case eventually ruled that the BHA had agreed to give John lenient treatment in exchange for giving evidence, something which the BHA had denied for months.
France’s Champion Hurdle fell to a British raider for the third year in a row on Sunday when L’Ami Serge bagged the £142,000 prize for Nicky Henderson. The Lambourn trainer said Daryl Jacob had delivered “one of the best rides you’ll ever see”, settling the horse at the rear and saving plenty of ground at each bend in an attempt to make his stamina last the three-mile trip.
L’Ami Serge’s appetite for a battle has not just been called into question but become the subject of mirth in the press room and on social media. Even so, stepping up in distance may have made a big difference, as this was his second success in three starts. Henderson, who also won the English Champion Hurdle in March with Buveur D’Air, said L’Ami Serge responds well to French obstacles but would probably be returned to English racing in the autumn.
Ayr
2.00 Weellan 2.30 Paradise Cove 3.00 Rubis 3.30 Royal Shaheen
4.00 Dark Crystal 4.30 My Name Is Rio 5.00 Lady Natasha
Brighton
2.15 Hateya 2.45 Hamster Jam 3.15 Twaddle 3.45 Impressive Day
4.15 Zipedeedodah 4.45 Deeds Not Words (nap) 5.15 Funfair
Windsor
6.00 Prince Ahwahnee 6.30 Cobalty Isle 7.00 Blaze Of Hearts
7.30 Gibbs Hill 8.00 Dagonet 8.30 Malcolm The Pug 9.00 Beyond Beyond
Pontefract
6.40 Peace Prevails 7.10 Frederic 7.40 El Hombre
8.10 Special Relation 8.40 Le Laitier 9.10 Pearl Acclaim (nb)
Roy Keane had called for a war but what he got was bloody awful until, that is, Jon Walters stormed to Ireland’s rescue five minutes from time.
The Irish had trailed since the 31st minute, when Martin Hinteregger struck for a depleted Austrian side who seemed on course to revive their World Cup qualification hopes by dealing a blow to those of their hosts, who were incoherent for much of this match. But then Ireland rallied, equalised and even forced the ball into the net a second time, only for the referee to disallow the goal for a supposed foul on the goalkeeper by Shane Duffy, much to the anger of Martin O’Neill.
With Serbia and Wales also in the running Group D looks likely to go down to the wire and Ireland can take confidence from this demonstration of their ability to fight to the finish. Whatever else they lack, their determination is bottomless. No one personifies it better than Walters. “Jon’s not the quickest but he’s got a real knowledge of the game and a really great will,” O’Neill said. “He is totally invaluable to us.”
Dublin looked a picture under a glowing sun but this match all but defaced it in the first half. With wayward passes, clunky touches and negligible imagination it was grisly viewing until Austria scored with a goal of incongruous quality. The visitors had offered a smidgin more neatness than the hosts in the opening half an hour but nothing that foreshadowed the artfulness of their breakthrough. It came from a corner delivered by David Alaba. Aleksandar Dragovic and Sebastian Prödl flummoxed the Irish defence by letting the ball run past them and over to Hinteregger near the penalty spot. He took one touch before firing past Darren Randolph.
There was no immediate trace of an Irish riposte. Robbie Brady and Jeff Hendrick can usually be relied on to serve up a measure of creativity but both were sloppy, Brady ineffective from the right wing and Hendrick offering meagre invention in an advanced central role. The game was crying out for Wes Hoolahan, the 35-year-old on the bench.
“I knew at half-time that we had left so many things behind and there was a determination in the second half to redress it,” said O’Neill, who made no personnel changes during the break but his team did emerge with more dynamism.
The fragments of class still came from Austria, though. The visitors forged a chance to increase their lead when Alaba drove through midfield before flipping the ball wide to the dangerous Florian Kainz and charging into the box. Kainz’s low cross was fractionally in front of Alaba, who had to stretch as he shot from 10 yards and that affected his accuracy.
O’Neill rejigged his team in the 55th minute, introducing Daryl Murphy up front alongside Walters and reassigning Brady to left-back in place of the substituted Stephen Ward. Ireland improved. They cranked up the intensity and delivered more and better balls into the box. For the first time Austria looked vulnerable.
McClean rattled them further when he cut inside from the right and shot a couple of yards wide from the edge of the area.
O’Neill cast on Hoolahan in the 71st minute and the little schemer almost created an equaliser within moments, delivering a wicked inswinging cross from the left that triggered such panic that Stefan Lainer almost slashed it into his own goal. The goalkeeper, Heinz Lindner, came to his rescue.
Austria rode that storm and would have increased their lead if not for a fine save by Randolph. Just as the visitors sensed a victory, Walters struck. It was classic Walters, the striker marauding on to a punt by Randolph, outmuscling Dragovic and walloping the bouncing ball into the bottom corner from 18 yards. The crowd went wild and two minutes later they thought things had got even better when Duffy headed into the net from close range after a massive scramble in the Austrian goalmouth. But the Spanish referee, David Fernández Borbalán, reckoned there had been a shove on the goalkeeper.
“We had a legitimate goal disallowed,” O’Neill said. “The referee was not to blame for our performance in the first half but I thought he was very poor indeed. The Austrian centre-back Prödl said on the pitch that, if it had been the other way round he would have been very disappointed.” The draw, at least, suited Ireland more than Austria.
Ben Stokes could stride into the Champions Trophy semi-final on Wednesday believing himself to be invincible at present but the England all-rounder has said he is not the type to get carried away with his performances; unsatisfied, he will continue striving to reach new levels.
Having bounced Australia out of the tournament exit door at Edgbaston with his career-best unbeaten 102, as Eoin Morgan’s side made it three wins from three in the group stage, Stokes underlined his status as the player all other teams covet and added more clout to the argument that we are witnessing a once‑in-a-generation cricketer.
Stokes himself, however, is trying to ignore the hype even though the Indian captain, Virat Kohli, used social media on Saturday to laud a four through the covers off the generally brutalised Pat Cummins – with a break of the wrists to add some deliberate slice – as the best shot he has seen in a long time.
“I just shut it out,” Stokes said. “You can do well one day and then not do well the other and you are not as good as everyone says. You just keep your feet on the floor. I never feel I get too high and I never feel I get too low about things. Everyone else may deal with things like that differently but that is just how I go about it.
“I am always trying to get better as a player, no matter how things are going, always trying to expand my game and look into how I can hit more areas or bowl different balls or whatever it is. I’m always looking to learn and am never happy with how I am going. I think once you get comfortable with what you are offering it is dangerous territory to be in.”
Lending itself to this level-headedness is the fact that England’s 40-run win by Duckworth–Lewis–Stern method – set up by the wonderful counterattacking stand of 159 from 35 for three with Morgan – was the first time Stokes has struck three‑figures in a one-day international run chase, with his second innings average going into the match just 20 from 24 innings with one half-century.
There was a point during his innings in the 70s where Stokes admitted his “beans were going” a bit and, upon recognising this could lead to his downfall, decided to throttle things back a touch and reset himself once more. Such an acknowledgment is one aspect to the 26-year-old’s game that has developed over the past year, not least during his subcontinental winter.
The Indian Premier League is getting much of the praise here and it would be ignoring the evidence to say there were no benefits, such as an acclimatisation to pressure-cooker stadiums, coping with the expectation of being the tournament’s most expensive overseas signing at £1.7m and gleaning advice from the masala of world-class players on offer.
Steve Smith, the Australia captain who led Stokes at Rising Pune Supergiant, may now regret being one of those who offered some help. “He just gave a little tip out in India, something on my technique, something that he felt could help me with,” Stokes said. “I was losing my backside a bit when I was hitting.
“The whole thing with the IPL is the exposure you get to big moments in games playing in front of a huge crowd all the time. In situations like 35 for three [against Australia] you can just mentally look back to a time in the past and reflect on that and also take confidence in knowing that you have been in that situation before and done well.”
Such a situation arose when Stokes struck his maiden IPL hundred from 10 for three last month in a match against Gujarat Lions, and winning the tournament’s MVP award in his first season was also a significant (and certainly will not be come next year’s auction) achievement. The experience, according to the England’s one-day batting coach, Graham Thorpe, has added an extra edge to a player who was already among the most diligent.
“He would have felt pressure going over there but there is something different about him now,” Thorpe said. “He wasn’t lacking in confidence before – in a nice way, not arrogance – but maybe it’s a belief, from being around those types of players, that he belongs.
“Him and Joe Root hit the most balls I’ve seen among young players over the years. You might be able to give them advice but they look to develop their own games. Ben has always been powerful but he’s adding new elements to his game. He’s very good at self-exploring. When he started, he hit a lot of balls and had fun but now he’s really consolidated his basics, too.”
For all the benefits Stokes felt from the IPL, the tournament is not cricket’s all‑healing grotto at Lourdes if Jason Roy’s returns since a largely unused spell with Gujarat – 51 runs in eight one-day innings that see Jonny Bairstow in line for the semi-final – are considered.
Thorpe said: “I think it can go one way or the other. It can be a great experience but there is another side. We have a player who maybe didn’t go there and play every game. That’s sport and life though, he could well go back next year and have a really positive experience.”
Roy will hope that his recent funk does not see him miss out when the Twenty20 squad to face South Africa at the end of the month is named on Monday. Stokes and Root are expected to be given a breather before the Tests in July, with Dawid Malan, Liam Livingstone and Sam Northeast among those who could feature.
Front-foot no-balls are not memorable. The sundries column is the last to be interrogated on any scorecard, if ever. Yet when Morne Morkel overstepped in South Africa’s doomed defence of 191, Indian partisans roared as loud as they did at any stage during the romping eight-wicket win. For white-ball foot faults mean free hits; a guarantee of seeing one of their adored wallopers go for gold.
It was a moment emblematic of the fanaticism the follows this team everywhere, capable of overwhelming anyone. In this match, the Proteas were just that: smothered. The top seeds’ Champions Trophy exit was sealed by a skittish batting effort, punctuated by three run outs ranging from desperate to comical through the course of a collapse in which they lost eight wickets for 51 runs. Breezy half-centuries from Shikhar Dhawan and Virat Kohli then completed the thrashing with ease.
A perfect South London morning brought sizable expectations, this the first of two quasi-quarter-finals to resolve who qualifies for the final four. The sudden‑death nature – after both teams unexpectedly lost their previous fixtures – added the heat needed for a tournament so far hindered by relentless rain.
After being put in, South Africa’s slow but serviceable start was their only period of parity with Kohli’s men. With run-rate pressure building, their angst showed between the wickets. In the space of five balls, captain AB de Villiers was found short for a single that wasn’t there before Faf du Plessis burned David Miller as both batsmen dived for the same end – some 22 yards from where the bails were being removed. It was ugly. The innings never recovered, all five bowlers contributing to the wickets column in a consistent and disciplined display.
Afterwards, De Villiers accepted the performance “ranks right up there” – or down there – in the lengthy list of defeats his nation has suffered at the pointy end of major tournaments over the past quarter-century. “Through soft dismissals we lost our way and that was the part for me that hurt the most,” the captain’s assessment. “A few mistakes cost us badly.”His opposing number underlined a marked improvement in the game’s third discipline as the driver behind the victory, coming after Sri Lanka upset their campaign on Thursday. “We had a complete performance in the field,” Kohli said. “This was something that we required. Before going out we had a chat and in the huddle I said that I wanted everyone’s intensity to go up.”
He added praise for the difficulty posed by his bowlers from the outset. While Hashim Amla and Quinton de Kock’s opening partnership reached 75, it never came at better than four runs an over.
The former was the first to go when MS Dhoni showed he has lost nothing with the gloves, snaffling a fine low catch from the bowling of Ravichandran Ashwin. A half-century was tallied by the latter, but he departed an over later when Ashwin’s spin twin Ravi Jadeja brought a delivery back through the sweeping left-hander’s gate.
Following the pair of run-outs it was the turn of India’s seamers to cash in, Jasprit Bumrah trapping Andile Phehlukwayo with a hooping outswinger before Bhuvneshwar Kumar found the edge of Kagiso Rabada and Morkel with consecutive classy deliveries. Predictably, the innings ended with another mid-pitch mix-up some 33 balls short of the full allotment.
In reply, India were able to play within themselves, knocking off the runs with 12 overs in hand. Dhawan top-scored, slapping an imposing 78 at the top of the list, allowing Kohli to do as he does best with an unbeaten 76. He was there at the end with the veteran Yuvraj Singh, who finished the game with a massive six over midwicket, much to the delight of the capacity crowd, who were chanting in unison for exactly that.
The opener played the more distinctive of the innings, on multiple occasions pulling to the rope with a compact and powerful swing. By now far behind in the game, there was little South Africa’s seamers could do. Meanwhile, Kohli has now reached 50 in four of his past five innings, nearing his top gear at the perfect time.
To reach the final at this same venue next Sunday India will need to overcome Bangladesh on Thursday at Edgbaston. Using history as a guide, having defeated their easterly neighbour in all but five of their 32 meetings, they will go in strong favourites. With Pakistan facing Sri Lanka for the right to play England in the first semi-final on Wednesday, three of the four teams who remain will be from the subcontinent.
South Africa are once again left to once again ponder what might have been. They will do so while remaining in the country rather than returning home, continuing their tour of England with four Tests at the conclusion of the Champions Trophy. That will hurt, and it should.
It is impossible to overstate the fresh sense of purpose that has accompanied the entire British & Irish Lions squad south from Christchurch to Otago. Not many sides conquer a strong Crusaders team with something to spare and the result on Saturday had two significant consequences. Not only do these Lions have more belief in themselves but New Zealand’s worst nightmare is in danger of materialising.
From a New Zealand point of view all was relatively normal before the weekend. The touring team had been struggling to make an impression, the local media were in full wind-up mode and the Crusaders and the Highlanders were about to treat their visitors to a double shot of southern discomfort. Suddenly Warren Gatland is on the offensive, even publicly querying the legality of Super Rugby scrummaging, and the mangy, jet-lagged Lions of last week have morphed into completely different animals.
It is not too much of an exaggeration, listening to some of the whinging about the performance of the French referee, Mathieu Raynal, to suggest sections of the New Zealand rugby community appear rattled. A referee prepared to apply the laws? A hard-nosed away team with decent line speed, aggressive but disciplined forwards and excellent tactical kickers? None of this is remotely illegal but, for some reason, the Lions are now being accused of trampling across the beautiful game.
There was a glorious moment at the press conference in the Lions’ team hotel on Sunday when a Kiwi inquisitor asked Gatland about his team’s meagre return of two tries in three tour matches. “How many have we conceded?” Gatland retorted, quick as a flash. Cue a lot of chin-stroking. These Lions have shipped only four tries in their first 240 minutes in New Zealand yet focusing on that side of the ledger is considerably less popular.
Of course Gatland’s team need to improve their strike rate at some stage but, as Graham Henry observed on radio at the weekend, there is more than one way to win a game of rugby. The beauty, ugly or not, of Saturday was the huge improvement in physicality and forward control that squeezed the Crusaders at source. Keep progressing on both fronts over the next 10 days and the All Blacks will have a stiff challenge on their hands at Eden Park on Saturday week.
The Crusaders, remember, boasted six All Blacks in their pack alone yet, aside from one dominant scrum, trailed in second in most key areas of the game. With slightly more precision the Lions could have scored two or three tries in addition to Owen Farrell’s four penalties. In the back five of the scrum, in particular, Gatland is spoilt for choice. Maro Itoje or Alun Wyn Jones? Peter O’Mahony or CJ Stander? Sam Warburton, Sean O’Brien or Justin Tipuric alongside Taulupe Faletau? With the All Blacks trio of Kieran Read, Dan Coles and Jerome Kaino either sidelined or short of recent rugby, it is far from guaranteed New Zealand will win all the meaningful collisions.
Add to that the ability of Conor Murray and Farrell to pen opponents deep in their own half with judicious kicks out of hand and the Lions really will be tough to beat when their final passes become more accurate and their attacking rhythm improves. “I thought we played some excellent rugby,” said Gatland, refusing to accept the Lions are a negative bunch with little to recommend them. “It’s only the third time in their history the Crusaders have scored only three points in a match and both of the other occasions were away from home. That team’s been together for only a week and this is the sixth hotel we’ve been in since we’ve been in New Zealand. We made 13 line breaks, I didn’t see any negative rugby.”
In terms of the scrums Gatland was similarly bullish: “I felt they had one scrum where they had some ascendancy but on the whole we scrummaged pretty well. I’m a little bit surprised such a huge amount has been made of the scrum. I thought the referee did a good job. If you look at the numbers elsewhere, I thought we dominated in every other area: lineout, territory, possession, carries, line breaks.”
It probably did not help that Monsieur Raynal was the official with the whistle in Chicago when Ireland defeated New Zealand last autumn; either way, the Frenchman’s dislike of the pre-scrum engagement common in Super Rugby did not concern Gatland.
“The law says there must be a small gap but they don’t play to the law of the game. So Super Rugby sides tend to scrummage illegally if that’s the case,” he said. “The scrum’s not going to be a problem for us. I think our scrum will be very strong by the time we come around to Test time.”
Who starts in the Test midfield remains a fascinating debate. For all the promise of the Farrell-Jonathan Sexton axis on Saturday it would be no surprise if Gatland prefers a Farrell-Te’o-Davies combo at 10, 12 and 13, with George North and Liam Williams on the wings and, depending on Stuart Hogg’s fitness, one of Jared Payne, Leigh Halfpenny or Anthony Watson at full-back.
“We’ve got lots of options; we’ve just got to get the right ones,” Gatland said. “I’m sure there will be a lot of difference of opinion in final selection and that’s going to be the challenge for us.” In terms of collective belief, nevertheless, the 2017 Lions grow stronger by the day.
Crusaders Dagg; Tamanivalu, Goodhue, Havili, Bridge (Bateman, 66); Mo’unga (Hunt, 74), Hall (Drummond, 62); Moody (Crockett, 51), Taylor (Funnell, 51), Franks (Alaalatoa, 51), Romano (Strange, 56), Whitelock (capt), Bedwell-Curtis (Brown, 62), Todd, Taufua.
Pen: Mo’unga.
British & Irish Lions Hogg (Watson, 20); North, Davies (Sexton, 29), Te’o, Williams; Farrell, Murray; Vunipola (McGrath, 62), George (Owens, 66), Furlong (Cole, 66), Jones (capt), Kruis (Itoje, 62), O’Mahony, O’Brien (Stander, 56), Faletau.
Pens Farrell 4.
Referee: M Raynal (France). Attendance 20,497.
Sam Warburton says he will not lead the British & Irish Lions into the first Test against the All Blacks on Saturday week unless he truly believes he is worth his place. The Welsh flanker concedes his inclusion is not yet certain and he “may not be ready” unless he has a storming game against the Highlanders on Tuesday.
Warburton has played only 66 minutes of rugby on tour, having strained an ankle in the opening quarter of the opening game. He is finally fit to return to the side but says he will not hesitate to advise Warren Gatland, the head coach, not to pick him if he struggles to match the form shown by Ireland’s Sean O’Brien and Peter O’Mahony in the 12-3 win against the Crusaders on Saturday.
“I’ll be honest with Gats and Gats will be honest with me,” Warburton said, after the squad’s arrival in Dunedin. “If I play Tuesday and I still feel I’m a bit undercut, then I might not be ready for that first Test. I’ll be perfectly honest with Warren: if I feel I need more games, then I’ll tell him I don’t feel ready. If I don’t need any, then I’ll obviously let him know that with a good performance.”
Warburton has long been among the most selfless of captains but he accepts he has played insufficient recent rugby to be a first Test certainty. “I definitely need more games,” the Cardiff Blues forward said. “I knew that coming into the tour. I’ve received this role as tour captain but I know there’s every chance I might not even get involved in that first Test. Maybe that would be the situation or maybe I could have a blinder on Tuesday and feel absolutely fine. If I’ve made the Test, then that would be a bonus for me but there are three Tests to get selected for so the first one is not the be-all and end-all.”
His honesty is to be applauded but invites speculation as to who might be involved should he not feature. The Lions may also have to soldier on without the full-back Stuart Hogg, who is due to see a specialist to check the facial injury he sustained when his room-mate Conor Murray’s elbow inadvertently caught him in the first half of the Crusaders fixture. With Ross Moriarty (back spasm) and Jonathan Davies (concussion protocols) also unavailable, Gatland has opted to play CJ Stander at No8 alongside Warburton and James Haskell, with Jared Payne and Dan Biggar also fit to resume at No15 and No10 respectively.
The Test prospects of, among others, Anthony Watson, Liam Williams, George North, Ben Te’o, Jamie George, Mako Vunipola, George Kruis, Maro Itoje, O’Mahony and O’Brien have probably been enhanced by their absence from the midweek lineup. The All Black backline trio of Waisake Naholo, Malakai Fekitoa and Lima Sopoaga all start for the Highlanders but three other internationals – Ben Smith, Aaron Smith and Liam Squire – will sit out the game along with five players due to represent the Maori against the Lions this Saturday.
Gatland says the Lions will not necessarily put out their optimum Test XV but Warburton confirms internal squad competition is intensifying. “Now we’ve all had a game it feels it’s audition time for the Test series. You know they’re going to start putting their Test team together pretty soon.” He also admits to feeling momentary panic when injury hit in the opening fixture. “It was about 15 minutes into the game. I was thinking: ‘Oh no, this can’t be happening.’ It was sore but I’ve had a few bumps now and I tend to know when it’s serious.”
Murray, who sustained a dislocated finger in the win against the Crusaders, has meanwhile made clear the Lions will not be resting on their laurels. “A couple of days ago we lost and there was criticism,” he said. “Now we’ve won, people will probably be bigging you up. But we won’t fool ourselves. There is stuff we did, a few slip-ups or turnovers, that the All Blacks would finish off. Because we won doesn’t take the pressure off.”
British & Irish Lions J Payne; J Nowell, J Joseph, R Henshaw, T Seymour; D Biggar, R Webb; J Marler, R Best, K Sinckler, C Lawes, I Henderson, J Haskell, S Warburton (capt), CJ Stander.
Replacements K Owens, J McGrath, D Cole, AW Jones, J Tipuric, G Laidlaw, O Farrell, E Daly.
Highlanders R Buckman; W Naholo, M Fekitoa, T Walden, T Li; L Sopoaga, K Hammington; D Lienert-Brown, L Coltman, S Tokolahi, A Ainley, J Hemopo, G Evans, D Hunt, L Whitelock (capt).
Replacements G Pleasants-Tate, A Seiuli, S Halanukonuka, J Dickson, J Lentjes, J Renton, M Banks, P Osborne.
L’Equipe is running a poll on its website at the moment, giving readers the chance to put themselves inside Didier Deschamps’s head and select a full squad of 23 to take to the World Cup next summer. Around 300,000 have duly sifted through the long list and picked out their favourites in every position.
Unsurprisingly, Antoine Griezmann scores highly, included in more than 99% of the voters’ selections. Not so far behind, chosen by more than 97%, is a player who did not win his third cap until Friday. Kylian Mbappé has been included on the strength of his explosive season as football’s latest golden boy, on the assumption that he must be a natural at this level too.
This freakishly talented 18-year-old was largely kept in reserve for France’s recent doubleheader of a friendly against Paraguay, followed by the shock World Cup qualification defeat in Sweden, when he sprinted on for a late cameo but did not really have the opportunity to make an impression.
Perhaps he will get more of a chance to show what he can do against England on Tuesday – and the desire to see Griezmann playing just off Mbappé as the attacking spear of a new-look France is understandably enticing – but, all of a sudden, there is an urgency about the agenda that buzzes around the topic of the new generation. Is it time to push for change?
Is the moment right to shake up the side that is still largely built on the components that took France to the final of Euro 2016? Those questions lurked in the shadows of the postmortems after defeat in Stockholm, as the French tried to figure out how on earth they have squandered top spot in Group A.
France had the game, marked by fabulous finishing, under reasonable control as they pressed for a winner in the closing stages, but it was turned on its head at the death. Sweden’s players were overjoyed as they scalped France with a brilliant, opportunistic, stoppage-time strike. Hugo Lloris, who had presented Ola Toivonen with the chance to find an unguarded net from half a pitch away, looked as if he wanted to eat his own gloves as some kind of penance.
World Cup qualification is suddenly a more stressful operation than France had in mind. Lloris was profoundly apologetic. Deschamps was stern-faced and straight-talking as he laid out the requirement to win all of their remaining games.
How quickly the tone of conversation has changed. The next few months for France were supposed to be about fine-tuning, about evolving, about Deschamps prising himself away from his loyalty to tried and trusted players to unleash the prodigies in their place. There is such demand to see the new wave fast tracked into the first XI. The seemingly unstoppable trajectory of Mbappé, the silky touches of Thomas Lemar and the darting dribbles of Ousmane Dembélé make strong cases to be the present rather than the future. They already look revved up and ready to go and Deschamps is under pressure to weigh up how he balances what they offer compared to an older generation that he trusts.
In Sweden, for a game Deschamps (rightly) assumed might pose physical and tactical challenges, the France manager was reluctant to be too bold. Having already integrated exciting full-backs in the Monaco pair Benjamin Mendy and Djibril Sidibé, Deschamps chose more conservatively in attacking positions, mindful that the young whizzes further forward might not track back or be as diligent as a more experienced option. But Moussa Sissoko? Really? Having spent a season as an expensive spare part at White Hart Lane, he struggled to match the intensity of the toughest group game between the top two.
Such are the decisions Deschamps wrestles with as he tries to sensibly manage the integration of the new wave. Sissoko and his season in the shadows or the vibrant prospect of Dembélé? Olivier Giroud, with his weird blend of not-quite moments and an excellent scoring rate – 17 goals from his last 17 starts for his country, including a piercingly swiped volley in Sweden – or the wonderkid Mbappé? Dimitri Payet, their star of the Euros, who has found some form again after a mid-season dip, or the purposeful bursts of Lemar?
France are spoiled for choice, but those choices are not that straightforward. It is a dilemma of sorts: loyalty versus audacity. That topic has been put into sharper focus now that the World Cup qualification scenario has changed. Only group winners take a guaranteed ticket to Russia; France are behind Sweden on goal difference, with four games remaining.
How long is the life of a team? The question was posed by a French journalist, Vincent Duluc, in the aftermath of the quirky defeat in Sweden. Deschamps is not about to abandon the Euro 2016 team, which has formed the basis of this qualification campaign. But the fresh faces are ready and waiting to seize the opportunity. How they handle the friendly against England should give the manager even more food for thought.
A school of thought insists that it is unhealthy to crank up the hype train’s lever so it approaches speeds worthy of a Shinkansen. But … but. Christian Pulisic. Christian Pulisic! CHRISTIAN PULISIC. Christian Pulisic.
If there is hope when the US face Mexico at Estadio Azteca on Sunday night, it lies on the 18-year-old’s small but sturdy shoulders. Hard to conclude otherwise after the 2-0 World Cup qualifying win over Trinidad & Tobago on Thursday in Colorado.
This is a roster replete with decent players capable of getting a team to the second round of a World Cup finals, and one step farther if the draw’s kind. Pulisic, though, even so early in his career, is the only one who looks like he’d belong in the line-up of a top-10 nation, a side that expects to reach the semi-finals.
Of the two outfield regulars with the biggest reputations, though only 29, Michael Bradley appears to be settling into a role where he is more shield than sword, disrupting the opposition rather than defining the flow of his own side’s attacks. Substituted after 61 minutes on Thursday, Clint Dempsey subjected his coach, Bruce Arena, to that famous Deuce glare, eyes boring into his target’s soul like an electric drill bit.
That surely reflected natural frustration at missing an ideal opportunity to grab the goal that would bring him level with Landon Donovan at the top of the US’s all-time scoring chart. But it’s tempting also to see it as a symbolic moment, a scene stemming from the pathos of a player on the way down who knows he’s ceding his status as the key forward to a team-mate roughly half his age.
Pulisic scored his second goal of the game a minute after Dempsey trudged off. And like the former Premier League man in his prime, it was a move that showed him to be both an exuberant creator and a clinical finisher.
Forced to pick between the two, it’s not a hard choice. Given that both tend to roam all over the final third, making Jozy Altidore’s selection important because his more static style provides a fulcrum for attacks, Arena may well have to make a decision. The US have only ever won once in Mexico, a 1-0 friendly victory in 2012. Overall, El Tri have won 23 of 26 home games against their rivals. Starting with all three forwards would seem hubristic.
Arena said on Thursday that he intends to make changes for Sunday’s match. In the high altitude of Mexico City, on short rest, it would appear logical to put the 34-year-old on the bench and go with the hotter feet of the Borussia Dortmund player, who has seven goals in 15 international appearances, five of them coming in eight World Cup qualifiers.
“He’s ahead of his time - he gets the ball he’s super comfortable on it, he’s never ever panicking, you see him when he gets inside the box he stands his defender up and the world is his oyster. He’s special, these guys don’t come around very often,” said Tim Howard, the US goalkeeper.
Will Mexico try to intimidate him physically, as T&T tried as did Panama before them? “If I were any team that played us I’d certainly target him. Not sure he’d win a street fight but he’ll always get stuck into a tackle, he’s not afraid. He’s a big boy, plays in the Bundesliga, he knows what it’s about,” Howard said. “But he’s not afraid and that’s huge for us. Because you look at him, he’s not the biggest, not the strongest, teams are always going to come in and try and get stuck in to him.”
The highest-profile encounter in Concacaf’s Hexagonal qualifying phase is in one way also the lowest-pressure for the visitors. Students of the fixture’s history, as well as the relative positions of the teams, could only conclude that the Americans are highly likely to lose.
Given the forgiving nature of the group, which sees the top three teams automatically reach Russia while the fourth faces a play-off against an Asian side, losing on the road will not be fatal to American prospects as long as they keep winning at home.
Mexico beat Honduras 3-0 on Thursday while Costa Rica and Panama shared a goalless draw. The US win lifted them to third in the standings, six points behind Mexico in first.
Mexico have conceded only once in five Hexagonal games. Arena’s team was unconvincing enough at the back, especially out wide, to merit a sense of foreboding about what might transpire in the Azteca if the favorites are at their incisive best. “We know that we are taking on a very difficult opponent, but they should think the same way about us,” the Mexico coach, Juan Carlos Osorio, told reporters.
Pulisic, though, has uncommon self-assurance as well as remarkable talent. “They’re a good team and they’re not easy to beat at home so it’s going to take a lot, but I think the guys we have, the confidence we have, I think there’s no reason why we can’t do that,” he said.
Eoin Morgan had tipped the raucous Eric Hollies stand here to be one of England’s chief assets before their encounter with Australia. As the captain signalled the charge that would eventually dump their rivals out of the Champions Trophy, the army of assorted bananas, gorillas, Mexicans and Nintendo characters duly responded.
A burst of rain had forced a break in proceedings at 3pm. With Jason Roy, Alex Hales and Joe Root all departed after a breathtaking surge from the Australia attack, England’s 35 for three from six overs had left the mood only slightly less dank than the weather; a chance to send Steve Smith’s men back to the joys of their contract dispute at home was in jeopardy.
But upon returning to the middle, Morgan lit the fuse from which the Hollies – and Edgbaston as a whole – would explode. He cracked Mitchell Starc’s first two deliveries through the covers in fearless fashion and, with it, ramming home the point that his England side are no longer the types to be cowed when faced by a canary-yellow onslaught in one-day international cricket.
Ben Stokes’s violent, unbeaten 102 will doubtless hog much of the limelight, but Morgan’s 87 in their breakneck stand of 159 was pivotal to this win. He was named in the week by Paul Farbrace, the assistant coach, as the standout central figure in England’s one-day revival and, as he flayed Australia’s bowlers, it felt simply the latest slab of evidence.
Morgan came into the side eight years go as an outlier: a 360-degree cavalier in a team made up largely of roundheads. After a spell when he reined it back a touch – and even found his place questioned after a dip in form and the thorny Bangladesh tour saga – he is back at the peak of his powers as a batsman, while his mandate as leader has swelled.
With he and Stokes nailing down the coffin of Australia’s soggy campaign in a flurry of boundaries, before the captain’s eventual run out, it was Aaron Finch who had the unfortunate stationing in front of the Hollies. The opener enjoys playing England, against whom he has made four of his eight international hundreds, but the repeated chants of “Finchy’s going home” may have taken the edge off a touch.
With Finch and Australia dispatched, agonising over Roy’s spot will doubtless fill some of the time between now and Wednesday’s semi-final in Cardiff. Having averaged 6.73 in eight one-day innings this summer it is fair to say England have entered the territory where they lose little but face in making the switch to Jonny Bairstow’s previously glowing bat.
Bairstow has history of thriving when parachuted in, and even Roy’s electric out‑fielding – demonstrated by the pop-up-and-reclaim boundary catch that removed Glenn Maxwell in front of Edgbaston’s most famous stand –would be more than compensated by the Yorkshireman’s equal prowess. The one unknown is how he goes against the new white ball at the top level.
While Roy’s trough has been an unshiftable headache of late, Morgan will be heartened by his bowlers. They turned Australia’s launchpad of 181 for three, at the now double-the-score mark of 32 overs, into 276 for nine from 50, and largely backing up their performance against New Zealand on a pitch offering less.
Smith had described England’s bowling strategy as predictable before the match, claiming it to be half the battle won already. The other, and more important, 50% is dealing with the ball once it leaves the bowler’s hand. Though his gaggle of fast-mediums shipped runs, Mark Wood and Adil Rashid shone brightly.
Wood’s career-best four for 33 from 10 overs – an England record in the Champions Trophy – was reward for a bowler who once doubted he would return after three ankle operations. That the troublesome joint is seemingly holding up and his pace remains are encouraging signs for the knockout stage to come and the small matter of the Ashes tour.
A maiden five-wicket haul is the next box to tick off on the Durham quick’s CV, but with the pelts of Hashim Amla, Kane Williamson, David Warner and Smith hanging on his wall already this summer, the curious folk that have stared solely at the statistics and not recognised the potential of Wood’s attributes are evaporating fast.
Rashid’s four for 41 was startling in its discipline. No boundaries were shipped from his 10 overs and 28 dots wracked up as Australia’s batsmen floundered against his googly. Hollies, the Warwickshire great who inflicted Don Bradman’s final-innings duck with the wrong ’un, would doubtless have nodded in approval.
The England support drew unfavourable comparisons between their oldest rival in international football and San Marino, suggesting, impolitely, that Scotland were inferior to Europe’s whipping boys. Below the belt, but given their team’s problems against a committed but limited side it was not an occasion when England were in a position to revel in supremacy despite extending their unbeaten qualifying record to 35 games courtesy of Harry Kane’s injury‑time equaliser. The visitors were passive in the face of a ferocious Scotland start and, despite improving to take a degree of control, another illustration of Joe Hart’s weakness on his left-hand side, when failing to get close to Leigh Griffiths’ first free-kick, and a subdued display in the final third showed the strides England still need to make. It needed the introduction of Alex Oxlade‑Chamberlain and Raheem Sterling to finally stretch a shattered home side.
Barring a remarkable upturn in fortune in the final four matches, this painful draw may well have curtailed Scotland’s World Cup qualifying prospects and Gordon Strachan’s hopes of leading his country to its first major tournament since 1998. “Scotland’s staying home,” as the England fans cruelly, bluntly but accurately put it. As the reaction to the final whistle testified, with Scots on their knees on the pitch and in the stands, it should have been so much better, a turning point in a campaign that has flickered only sporadically. Griffiths’s outstanding free-kick double put Scotland in sight of their first Hampden win over England since 1985, when Strachan was playing, but regardless of their inability to hold out, and lack of attacking options, their performance and commitment should silence the debate over the manager’s future for some time yet.
Southgate raised a few eyebrows by giving Jake Livermore his second start in an England shirt. Although he and Eric Dier struggled with the intensity and aggression of their Scotland counterparts the West Bromwich Albion player left his manager with no cause for regret. His range of passing impressed, he posed one of the few threats to Craig Gordon’s goal and he was the one barking instructions and leading the team when Scottish pressure was at its height. His selection, however, underlined the limited options that were available to Southgate in seeking to protect his defence, with Livermore and Dier the only natural choices for central midfield in the match-day squad.
Given the scrutiny on the behaviour of England supporters before the game, and the criticism that flows when it does cross the line, it is only fair to report when they do get it right. Southgate had reminded the travelling support of their responsibilities as ambassadors for the country. The message was heeded. A minute’s silence for the victims of the Manchester and London attacks was impeccably observed by all and there was no repeat of the cringe-worthy songs aired at recent internationals. The Scotland taunt of “Jimmy Saville, he’s one of your own” was greeted by the bewilderment it deserved. The two sets of supporters even applauded each other after the final whistle.
Strachan sprung a surprise by recalling Christophe Berra to Scotland’s back-line for the first time since the 3-0 loss to England in November but also by reverting to a three-man central defence with Kieran Tierney on the left. The formation restricted the Celtic full-back’s ability to support the Scotland attack but enabled Tierney to demonstrate the awareness, intelligence and timing that attracted so many admirers during his season with Brendan Rodgers’ invincible side. Tierney, left, who only turned 20 on Monday, was instrumental in containing Marcus Rashford and denying space to England’s front line but was unfortunate to collide with Stuart Armstrong when Oxlade-Chamberlain broke the deadlock. A genuine talent.
As the past few weeks on the election trail have shown, a campaign rarely runs in a straight line. What seems certain one day can look unlikely the next and a few days after being tipped to go through the rest of the tour without securing a victory the Lions not only defeated the previously unbeaten Crusaders but gave New Zealand some reasons to be fearful.
One disappointment for the Lions, which will kick in after the euphoria and relief of a win they needed with the majority of the side likely to start the first Test, was that they did not adorn it with tries. They created chances but a mixture of poor decision-making, a lack of understanding and slack passing under pressure cost them from the opening minute.
What mattered, though, was the result and the manner of the victory. The strong set pieces complemented by resourcefulness at the breakdown, an accurate kicking game and a suffocating defence that maintained its chokehold despite a backline reshuffle in the first half will keep New Zealand’s analysts up for a few nights.
The Crusaders failed to score a try for the first time since April 2015. The conditions were no aid to passing movements but they had not been in Auckland three nights before when the Blues stretched the Lions defence until it snapped. The home side showed the expected intent in possession but the Lions closed down space so quickly that the Super Rugby favourites became jammed up in a congested midfield.
Even when the Lions kicked long and the receiver had time to launch a counterattack the tourists were quick to deter the long pass, leaving a run or a kick as the only options. Even from set pieces, which were at times under so much pressure that a kick offered relief, the Crusaders struggled to move the ball beyond the second receiver and were cramped for space.
They created two half-chances, George Bridge shoved into touch in the first half after a cross kick and then failing to gather Jack Goodhue’s improvised kick from a scrum, but otherwise the Crusaders were mute as an attacking force. They struggled to please the French referee, Mathieu Raynal, at the scrum, penalised for not staying square and engaging too early, but they were more perturbed at what they felt was his connivance at the Lions encroaching beyond the feet of the hindmost player as they rushed up in defence.
With French officials in charge of the final two Tests, the New Zealand head coach, Steve Hansen, is sure to use media conferences to put pressure on Jérôme Garcès and Romain Poite, officials who were not swayed by home pressure during the 2015 World Cup when they took charge of England’s group matches against Wales and Australia.
Raynal was in charge when New Zealand lost to Ireland in Chicago in November and, while the Top 14 may have become the most mind-numbing of the major leagues in Europe, French officials are arguably the world’s best, refereeing what they see with consistency. Unlike most, they tend not to provide a running commentary, making it harder for players to test their tolerance thresholds.
The Lions conceded seven penalties, a marked improvement on Wednesday, when Liam Williams was sent to the sin-bin for taking out a player in the air for the second time. This time the Lions waited for the catcher to hit the ground before moving in. The kicks from Conor Murray were precise and Israel Dagg even proved suspect under the high ball.
Murray, like his half-back partner Owen Farrell, made a significant impact. Farrell moved into the midfield, operating at centre when Jonathan Davies failed a head injury assessment, with Jonathan Sexton coming on at fly-half. It gave the Lions the opportunity to see the pair in tandem and they benefited from another happy accident when Anthony Watson replaced the injured Stuart Hogg at full-back and he unnerved the Crusaders with his pace and elusiveness.
Watson is an option at full-back for the first Test but the priority in midfield has to be to play Farrell where he is at his most commanding. That is at fly-half, which would mean Ben Te’o and Jonathan Davies linking up again in midfield. Davies, like Leigh Halfpenny and Dan Biggar on Wednesday, showed that the Lions are not playing Warrenball, keeping the ball alive at every opportunity. It may not be the tiki-taka rugby New Zealand have come to cherish but it looks sure enough to prevent a landslide.
Matt Wallace has learned to trust those with a hunch. The finest endorsement for those who believed in the 27-year-old will arrive on Thursday morning when he makes his major championship debut, at the US Open. A year ago, Wallace was enjoying the most fruitful spell of an unremarkable career, winning three times on the Alps Tour, where first prizes occasionally approach £10,000. There was also a meeting with Chubby Chandler, the influential agent, when Wallace attended the BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth as a spectator.
“This is freaky,” Wallace says. “It was the first time I’d ever met him. He said: ‘You know what, Matt? You are going to be playing here next year.’ I said: ‘Shut up. I’m on the Alps Tour, I have to play Challenge Tour, win things there … how am I even going to get close?’”
Wallace did tee up in the European Tour’s marquee English event having benefited from two things: his own ability and another demonstration of confidence, this time from Keith Pelley. It was the Tour’s chief executive who invited Wallace to last month’s Portugal Open where he opened with a 63, won the tournament and thereby earned full playing status.
“I spoke to Keith at Wentworth,” says Wallace. “I wrote him a letter of thanks, he got that and came to see me. He said: ‘I really appreciate the letter.’ I was like: ‘Well, I really appreciate you changing my life.’ He said: ‘You are exactly the reason why we give invites. You showed you could take your chance when we gave you that invite.’”
Wallace’s earlier periods on the road provide insight into a division far removed from the US Open, for which he earned a place from a play-off at international qualifying. The field at Erin Hills will compete for a prize fund of $12m (£9.4m). For Wallace, there was the distribution of a business plan to potential sponsors so that he could collect even some of the minimum £17,000 per year needed to play on the Alps Tour.
“I always felt like if I was able to go to events, I could win and make a living,” he says. “That’s how I spoke to people; some took an interest, others didn’t. I only had a couple of people helping me and you would have a certain amount of money to last five or six events. After that, I had to pay my own way so that was tough.
“Even in the year where I won six times, it was great but not significant or life-changing money and I was having to pay a lot of stuff off with what I won. I was getting sponsorship, maybe £5,000, so from there on I was paying with whatever I earned.”
Wallace is clearly confident but self-deprecating about his route to the top. “My parents are PE teachers, my whole family is very sporty. I was very good at pretty much all sports. I played really high-level cricket, football and rugby. I didn’t play golf seriously until I was 18.
“From 18 my head was on the wrong way, I worked for Hollister and was out partying all the time. I changed that when I was 20 when I had this thought of: ‘What am I going to do when I’m 30? I have nothing.’
“I wanted to go to America and get my degree. I did that on a scholarship to Jacksonville State and went there for a year. I was at the wrong university; I was the No1 there, won events, helped their ranking then got called into the England first team. I thought it was all going in the right direction but I still wasn’t any good. I was just playing with what I was given, talent, and that was it.
“I always managed to score and get it round. That helps me now. I wasn’t that good but I could and can play from positions others aren’t used to because I’ve been in those situations. I’ve changed my technique, because I had to, and I’m a proper golfer now. I’m quite confident standing next to anyone on the range and hitting shots.”
Wallace’s development is fascinating on two counts. That he is a prolific winner – the eventual tally on the Alps Tour last year was six – sets him apart from others, regardless of where those successes took place. At 27, and having turned professional in 2012, he is also relatively late to the high-level party. Wallace regularly doubted experiences like this “best six months of my life” would ever transpire. “I have worked really hard for years but over the first couple, I didn’t see much happening with my game,” he says.
“I didn’t see any purchase or any outcome which suggested I was going to be a professional golfer. I spoke to a few of my friends about giving it up at the end of 2013. I was busy writing a new CV. In hindsight, working hard wasn’t the right thing; I had to work a lot smarter.
“At the end of 2015 I changed coach after being in position a few times on the Alps Tour but not winning. It wasn’t mental; I felt great every time I was in position. It wasn’t nerves. Under pressure, my technique wasn’t holding up. I worked on my technique, made that a lot better and now have a great team around me.”
That coaching switch led to the widely respected Matt Belsham overseeing stunning improvement. Among Belsham’s other pupils is the world No8 Alex Noren. “This is a guy who I idolise,” says Wallace of the Swede. “His work ethic and his technique are brilliant. He isn’t completely happy with the way he swings it so there is a grey area where he is winning but he is always working to get better. That’s where I am because I never had great technique and it’s technique that gets the ball to go where you want it to.”
Chandler delivered a “told you so” message as Wallace lifted the trophy in Portugal. “I’ve taken so much confidence from someone of his stature telling me I was going to do all right,” says the man from west London. He will cherish Erin Hills more than most.
Barely a month ago, the final whistle was set to blow on David Beckham’s long-held dream of launching his own professional football club in Miami, the glitziest of American cities.
What was to have been a lucrative retirement project for the former England captain appeared thwarted by a series of broken stadium deals, the snail’s pace of Miami’s complicated political machinery and resistance from locals keen to block progress of Beckham’s investment group.
Even the bosses of Major League Soccer were losing patience with the former Manchester United, Real Madrid and LA Galaxy star. Don Garber, the league’s commissioner, pointedly remarked in April that at least 12 other cities were chasing a prized franchise and their own ticket to the top table of American soccer.
Beckham, however, was always the master of the game-changing moment. Just like a trademark curling free-kick from his playing days, a simple vote from county leaders this week secured a welcome victory, one that restores life to the stalled venture and nudges Brand Beckham closer to the bright lights of South Beach.
“Our heart is to be one of the best franchises in Major League Soccer and a great neighbour, partner and leader here for the kids that are playing soccer in this community,” said Tim Leiweke, Beckham’s friend, fellow investor and chief negotiator for the $500m (£391m), privately funded project.
“Major League Soccer needs Miami just as much as Miami wants Major League Soccer. Our hope is within the next several weeks the league will accept Miami and the Beckham ownership group.”
The crucial development was the approval by Miami-Dade commissioners to sell a three-acre parcel of county-owned land in the Overtown neighbourhood to the Beckham team, which also includes the music and television entrepreneur Simon Fuller, Bolivian telecommunications billionaire Marcelo Claure and, as of April, financier Todd Boehly, co-owner of baseball’s Los Angeles Dodgers.
The group bought the derelict site’s other six acres privately for $19m (£15m) in March 2016 and Beckham needed the final piece of the jigsaw to secure MLS approval for a 25,000-seat, open-roofed stadium. A team of league inspectors visited the site this week.
Yet despite this breakthrough, the MLS product Beckham now looks set to offer is a far cry from the one he envisioned back in February 2014. Then, on a stage beneath the tropical foliage of Miami’s Perez arts museum, Beckham confirmed he was exercising the cut-price $25m franchise ownership option that came as a signing bonus when he signed a five-year deal to join LA Galaxy in 2007.
Miami, he declared, was “the world’s most vibrant city” and deserving of a soccer team to match, which he pledged would play in a downtown stadium, possibly by 2017. “Who wouldn’t want to play in Miami? Live in Miami?” he asked, speaking passionately of fans walking along picturesque waterfront boulevards to games at a state-of-the-art stadium.
But little by little the dream began to fall apart, throttled by politics even as Leiweke worked feverishly behind the scenes to canvass support from the mayors and commissioners of the city and Miami-Dade county.
First, county politicians rejected Beckham’s proposal to build at the Port of Miami, as an alliance of cruise ship operators and dockyard workers lamented that cargo loaders and crane operators were about to be replaced by “peanut-sellers and ticket-takers.”
Then city mayor Tomas Regalado, a one-time Beckham ally, went cold on county mayor Carlos Gimenez’s plan to fill in a disused deep-water slipway and build the ground in a “grand waterfront park”. Stung by the realisation that a prime waterfront site had eluded him, Beckham announced in June 2014 that he was pausing to weigh his options.
Nine months passed before a venue next to the Miami Marlins’ new baseball stadium in Little Havana was touted, and embraced by Beckham. But he walked away “frustrated” in November 2015, after several individual owners refused to sell despite receiving offers well in excess of the real land value.
Facing an MLS deadline and veiled threat to award Sacramento the league’s 24th franchise in December, the group known as Miami Beckham United quickly latched on to the vacant Overtown site.
The move was a little too hasty for many residents of the Spring Garden historic district, a quiet, leafy neighbourhood on Overtown’s western edge that some fear will be ruined by noise and traffic if the stadium comes to pass.
Home to one of Florida’s original tourist attractions in the 1890s, Alligator Joe’s, where visitors gathered to watch reptile wrestling contests in deep pits, Spring Garden remains unspoiled from its 1920s heyday and is popular with young families.
“The human side, the effects of this stadium aren’t being addressed,” said resident Meredith Vey. “I’m not an elected official, I’m not an entertainment mogul and I’m not an athlete, I’m just a mother trying to raise a kid in my small neighbourhood. I feel we’ve been betrayed by the commissioners who have stars in their eyes.”
Another resident, Daeja O’Donoghue, said Beckham’s team called a community meeting at less than 24 hours’ notice last month and said the group “hadn’t done its due diligence”.
“I said, ‘Show me the studies, the traffic studies, the feasibility studies,’ and they had nothing,” she said. “We want proof of how this is going to affect us.”
O’Donoghue said she was also concerned that the group planned to use the stadium for open-air concerts as well as 15 or so football games a year.
Leiweke sought to allay residents’ fears: “People worry we’re going to do 20 or 30 nights of concerts and disrupt their sleeping patterns and kids. Not true,” he said. “We’re going to cap the number of concerts we do and the genre of music. We are committed to being a good neighbour, we are committed to being a good partner.”
Amanda Hand, whose house directly faces what would be the western side of the stadium, was not persuaded. “They have a lot of language like ‘we will attempt to’, ‘try to’ and ‘intend to’,” she said. “There’s a lot of aspirations and not a lot of guarantees. Aspirations are not legally enforceable.”
Celebrity-starved and economically depressed, Overtown is also not quite what the limelight-loving Beckhams had in mind when they set their sights on a life in Miami.
In 2014, at the start of the odyssey, the Miami Heat were the defending NBA champions and it was common to find Beckham in a courtside seat, or chilling with his friend LeBron James, the Heat forward who was once a potential partner in the soccer enterprise.
Beckham and wife Victoria, the former Spice Girl, were spotted in Miami more often then, eating with other celebrities at the Zuma restaurant or lounging at Soho Beach House, the exclusive club the footballer still uses as a de facto office.
Times have changed: the Heat are back among basketball’s also-rans and James has gone home to Cleveland. But there will be plenty to occupy Beckham in Miami as his as-yet unnamed franchise moves forward.
A first priority will be finding a big-name coach and well-known players who can deliver immediate success and catch up with Florida’s two other new professional soccer teams, which stole a march while Beckham’s project floundered.
Orlando City, who joined MLS in 2015, signed Brazilian World Cup winner Kaka; Miami FC, unbeaten in eight games this year in their second season in the junior North American Soccer League, are part-owned by the former Italy captain Paolo Maldini.
Beckham has said it would be “disrespectful” to speculate about his own potential players, especially because it could be four years before the team plays a game. But Peter Wilt, who launched Chicago Fire into MLS in 1998 as the franchise’s founding general manager, said Beckham’s status and connections would attract big names eager to be part of the league’s planned expansion to 24 teams by 2020.
“David has an allure that gives them an advantage at the start,” he said. “It’s a dissipating advantage as he gets further away from his playing days and celebrity status, but there’s still a something there. Working with Tim Leiweke, no doubt he’ll be smart enough and strategic enough to bring in other athletes and coaches who have that allure.”
Wilt said Beckham’s other challenge would be to make supporters feel part of the club.
“Miami is one of, if not the most difficult, sports market in the nation because of its transient population,” he said. “If he can get them emotionally connected to this team they’ll make it sustainable.”
“We thank you God, for you have truly been good to Jamaica. You have blessed us with doctor, the honourable Usain St Leo Bolt, the embodiment of sportsmanship, who reminds us of the gumption and indomitable spirt of the Jamaican people. May the vibe in the stadium bring a world of justice and love, and make your kingdom on Earth as it is in heaven. Amen.”
Major sporting events are not supposed to start with prayers from an ordained minister, impeccably observed and with righteous amens in all the right places. Yet, inevitably, it proved the perfect prelude to Usain Bolt’s 84th and last race in Jamaica.
This was an occasion akin to a religious experience, a five-hour outpouring of love and joyous exaltation from 35,000 people to the greatest athlete in their history. Salute To A Legend, they called it. And salute they did. Whether they were in the buttock‑deadening $8 wooden bleacher seats or dignitaries in the grandstand, whenever Bolt appeared the reaction was both classless and overwhelming, with roars and claps and blasts from so many vuvuzelas it sounded as if an army of mosquitoes were invading Kingston.
Afterwards the 30-year-old admitted he had rarely been as nervous before a race. It was here at the National Stadium in 2002 that he first made his name – winning the world junior 200m title as a 15-year-old by beating athletes three years his senior. And now, suddenly, it was hitting home that the circle of his athletics life was rapidly bolting shut.
Even so he had the presence of mind to treat the crowd to his greatest hits. As the athletes lined up for the 100m, he shadow-boxed like a prizefighter as the master of ceremonies stirred the crowd into greater frenzies by rattling through his achievements with a preacher’s force and certainty. Then, when the gun went off, he even made his customary terrible start, leaving his blocks with all the grace of someone with backache climbing out of his favourite easy chair. Yet at 50 metres he was ahead and away – and, as always, simply uncatchable.
His time of 10.03sec was nothing special, at least not for him. Then again, having missed more than two weeks’ training after the death of his close friend Germaine Mason in a motorbike accident – Bolt was one of the first on the scene – it was never going to be.
Afterwards he was brutally honest about his performance. “I think that was possibly one of my worst races,” he said. “My execution was poor, my start was poor as always. I think in the last bit I lost it a little. But I didn’t expect anything spectacular because I have had a lot of time off. The two weeks I missed was rough. But the people of Jamaica really came out for me, thank you for showing me your support.”
As Bolt crossed the line he was mobbed by cheerleaders and photographers as a bouquet of fireworks lit up the Kingston skyline. His lap of honour was long and delirious and he climbed into the stands to celebrate with friends and family before going back on the track to party with the Jamaican dancehall legend Beanie Man.
Of course he was never going to lose – not here in Kingston and especially not when the dice had been loaded in his favour. Any athlete who could conceivably have beaten him was put into a tougher 100m earlier in the evening, which was won by his compatriot Yohan Blake, the London 2012 silver medallist, in 9.97sec.
Afterwards, when Blake was asked whether he might fill his friend’s boots one day, he shook his head. “He leaves a size 13 shoe to fit and it’s hard to fit,” he admitted. “I try to squeeze my foot in it.”
Not everyone was as sentimental. The young South African Akani Simbine, who finished second to Blake, was asked whether he wanted to ruin Bolt’s retirement at the world championships in London in August. “That’s the plan,” he said, smiling.
Beforehand Bolt indulged the crowd with two pre-race laps of honour, one in an open-topped car around the velodrome surrounding the track, the other on foot. Then came a big bear hug from Sebastian Coe, the International Association of Athletics Federations president, who shovelled praise on the 100m and 200m world record holder and eight-times Olympic gold medallist.
“Our words, at best, can only be a small, modest contribution to the eulogies and tributes that this great man standing behind me has received,” Coe told him. “But if our words are modest, our thanks are mountainous.”
Peter Phillips, the leader of Jamaica’s opposition, the People’s National Party, was even more effusive. “You are now the greatest Jamaican of all time,” he told him. “You have set new limits for human capacity and speed and your records of performance will endure through all history.”
Not to be outdone, Jamaica’s prime minister, Andrew Holness, came dressed in a Puma tracksuit and, putting his hand on Bolt’s shoulder, called him “a great man, a great athlete and a great Jamaican”.
Bolt, wisely, intends to stay as far away from politics as possible in retirement. He has already been offered a place in government and the culture and sports minister has urged him to start making “Baby Bolts” for the good of the nation. Such is his ability to unite all Jamaicans, any party he declared for would surely win a landslide.
Seven Olympic champions had come to Kingston to pay tribute to Bolt and there were victories for most of them, including Britain’s Mo Farah in the 3,000m. But it was the South African Wayde Van Niekerk who produced the performance of the night in winning the 200m in 19.84sec. That was not only a personal best and the fastest time of the year but a reminder, perhaps, of why Bolt has decided to run only the 100m and 4x100m relay at the world championships.
That, though, is a discussion for another day. This night, like so many others on the track during the past decade, belonged to Bolt.
An injury to fly-half Joey Carbery, who had two kicks charged down for tries, interrupted a win for Ireland in a Test that showed the gap that still exists between the haves and have-nots of rugby.
In truth, the USA have more than they once did: John Mitchell’s Eagles were well drilled and well lead by two overseas pros: Sale fly-half AJ MacGinty and New Zealander Tony Lamborn on the openside flank. Still, a lack of time together and semi-pros in key positions fed into familiar problems: a scrum that struggled, a defensive line that ran ragged a little too soon. Joe Schmidt’s Ireland, with two Lions starting and another on the bench, made holes and ran through them all game.
“Joey just sprained his ankle a bit,” said Schmidt. “We thought it pertinent to get him off. We don’t know what the story is yet. It hasn’t swelled too much but it was a bit tender. We’ll see how it settles and get a scan either here or once we arrive in Tokyo.”
Mitchell, a former All Blacks head coach, will leave the Eagles at the end of their summer series, which continues against Georgia next week and in a two-legged World Cup qualifier with Canada.
“We were outclassed today,” he said. “We’re disappointed, defensively we had some issues with our setting which cost us.” Mitchell also said he didn’t expect his first-choice scrum to “lose inches”, which contributed to Ireland “finding the front 50 very easy”.
In any event, Ireland had much more strength, even though they were without 11 British and Irish Lions, currently touring New Zealand. For one thing they had Keith Earls, the Munster wing who toured South Africa with the 2009 Lions. Whatever the New Jersey equivalent of the screaming ab-dabs might be, the Americans got them when Earls was carrying the ball. His team-mates noticed and he carried it often: on his wing, off it, on the end of kicks into space.
Two minutes in his marker, Martin Iosefo, rushed up, allowing space for Tiernan O’Halloran to break a tackle and put Earls clear for a 35m run to the line. Then, when Carbery made a half-gap of his own, Earls was straight through it to send a long, flat-ish-cum-forward pass out for the other wing, Jacob Stockdale, to score. Carbery converted for 12-0 on 15 minutes. Three minutes late a missed MacGinty clearance saw O’Halloran run the ball back, a tackler slip off and Kieran Marmion put Earls in at the corner with ease.
“Earlsy usually wants to get the ball all the time,” Schmidt said, “but I think after the first 20 minutes he didn’t want it anymore, he’d run it enough.”
The first US try produced a roar from a crowd above 22,000. The Newcastle Falcons lock Nick Civetta scored it, charging down a clearance from Carbery. MacGinty converted for 17-7. In prompt response, Carbery kicked a penalty to the corner and the Irish pack mauled the hooker Niall Scannell over from a throw to big Devin Toner. So go the pros.
Lamborn then made a half-break but couldn’t complete the pass. From the scrum, which Ireland pressured to keep the tired No8 David Tameilau bound and busy, came the try of the game. Marmion scooted blind and released Earls once again, and though 70 metres later the full-back Ben Cima got him, and well, Earls popped a pass out of a tumble-dryer of arms and legs for Marmion to score. Carbery increased the lead to 29-7. So it stayed to the half.
The first try of the second period took only three minutes, No8 Jack Conan touching down from a five-metre scrum drive. Carbery converted. And then there was a second charge-down of the Irish No10, this time by the Cork-born flanker John Quill. Carbery, Schmidt said with a grin, will learn from the experience.
The US then had their best spell of the game, and the roar for what might’ve been a third home try shook the stands … for a few seconds or so. Alas, replacement prop Paddy Ryan – Irish-born, employed in the Premiership with Newcastle – threw forward a long pass after a fine break from the wing Mike Te’o. Iosefo’s finish was in vain.
Ryan Matyas did get over on 54 minutes for the Eagles’ third, this time patient phase play opening a half-gap. Perhaps stung, a little, Ireland brought on the Munster wing Simon Zebo, a Lion in Australia four years ago. Although the US scrambling defense was good, another Earls break put the substitute lock James Ryan over and replacement scrum-half Luke McGrath also scored as legs tired. The final try came from a high kick to Stockdale’s wing, where the undersized Te’o was predictably outjumped. Zebo collected the loose ball to score.
On a hot, sapping evening, both teams earned their applause. After five minutes of the game, though, the same fans offered a standing ovation in honor of Robert Paylor, a lock from the University of California, Berkeley who suffered a catastrophic injury in the Varsity Cup final against Arkansas State last month. Paylor is now in rehab; a GoFundMe campaign aims to raise $1m to aid his recovery.
USA: B Cima; M Te’o, R Matyas, M Brache (W Magie, 22-35; B Campbell, 65), M Iosefo (S Davies, 50); AJ MacGinty, N Augspurger (capt); B Tarr (J Taufete’e, 40), P Malcolm (J Hilterbrand, 40), C Baumann (P Ryan, 46), N Brakeley, N Civetta (M Jensen, 46), J Quill, T Lamborn, D Tameilau (A Durutalo, 40).
Tries Civetta, Quill, Matyas. Cons MacGinty 2.
Ireland: T O’Halloran (D Leavy, 72); K Earls, G Ringrose, L Marshall (R Scannell, 40) J Stockdale; J Carbery (S Zebo, 50), K Marmion (L McGrath, 61); C Healy (D Kilcoyne, 50), N Scannell (D Heffernan, 50), John Ryan (A Porter, 50), Q Roux (James Ryan, 61), D Toner, R Ruddock (capt), J van der Flier, J Conan.
Tries Earls 2, Stockdale, Scannell, Marmion, Conan, James Ryan, McGrath, Zebo. Cons Carbery 3, R Scannel 2 Pens DG
Ref: Luke Pearce (England) Att: 22,370.
Alexei Popyrin is eyeing a Davis Cup baptism after becoming Australia’s first French Open junior champion in 49 years.
The third seed downed Spain’s Nicola Kuhn 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 on Saturday to become Australia’s first boys’ champion in Paris since Phil Dent in 1968, the first year of the professional era.
The Sydney-born teenager was overjoyed after also joining legends Roy Emerson, Ken Rosewall and John Newcombe as the fifth Australian to have his name added to the honour roll in the event’s 70-year history.
“There is a lot of good names. I’m happy to be part of it. It feels amazing,” Popyrin said. “Winning any tournament feels great, but especially when you win a grand slam, you feel over the moon.
Maria Sharapova has withdrawn from Wimbledon qualifying because of the muscle injury she sustained at the Italian Open last month.
Sharapova, who is coming back from a 15-month suspension for taking the banned drug meldonium, had been due to enter qualifying after rejecting a wild card. But she posted in a Facebook message: “After an additional scan, the muscle tear that I sustained in Rome will unfortunately not allow me to compete in the grass court tournaments I was scheduled to play.”
Sharapova will also withdraw from the Aegon Classic in Birmingham, for which she had been granted a wild card. She said: “I want to thank the LTA for their amazing support on my return and providing me with a Birmingham wild card, a tournament which I hope many of you will be able to attend.
“I look forward to meeting you there next year. I will continue to work on my recovery and my next scheduled tournament is in Stanford.”
Sharapova was denied a wild card for this month’s French Open and took a potentially divisive decision for the All England Club out of their hands by announcing she would go through qualifying.
Her withdrawal will prevent a potential logistical nightmare for the organisers of the usually low-key qualifying event, given the interest in her comeback.
Sharapova reached the semi-finals on her comeback at the Porsche Open in Stuttgart in May, but her return left the women’s tour divided.
A number of fellow top players expressed disapproval at the opportunities granted to Sharapova, with the former Wimbledon finalist Eugenie Bouchard branding her a “cheater” before their recent Madrid Open showdown.
Manchester United have reached an agreement to sign the Swedish international Victor Lindelof from Benfica for £30.7m (€35m). With Champions League football secured after the Europa League was added to their EFL Cup and Community Shield triumphs, attention quickly turned to reinforcements.
The centre-back is now set to become José Mourinho’s first signing of the summer after United struck a deal with the Portuguese champions.
A statement on the Premier League club’s official website read: “Manchester United is pleased to announce that it has reached agreement with Benfica for the transfer of Victor Lindelof, subject to a medical examination, international clearance and personal terms.
“A further announcement will be made once the transfer is complete.”
In the end, Harry Kane did almost everything Gareth Southgate had hoped he might. This game had gone, the visitors apparently broken by Leigh Griffiths’ pair of free-kicks, when Raheem Sterling cut inside and flung over one last desperate cross from the left and there, opening up his body in mid-air to meet the delivery as sweetly as he could, was England’s captain to guide home a first international goal in 13 months. The manager leapt into the air, his manic celebrations born as much of relief as delight. He had been at pains to point out that talent, eventually, will out. There was evidence of Kane’s pedigree in his timing.
Plucking that point from the dregs of a furious contest left the English buoyed, for all that the shortcomings of the team’s display in Glasgow will surely trouble Southgate over his summer. For Kane, the plunder was more personal. This had in effect been his audition, the fifth captain of Southgate’s tenure to date making his influence felt just as embarrassment – and a first loss to bitter rivals in more than 17 years – had beckoned. “It has ended as a special day,” he said. “To be 2-1 down in stoppage time from nowhere, getting that goal is special. We found another gear, and it feels like a good point.”
The dramatic nature of the equaliser had effectively cleansed the visitors’ performance, all the exasperation the 23-year-old forward had endured up to then on his first appearance for Southgate going exorcised at the last. That finish was Kane inspiring his team-mates as captains should, when the scenario was at its grimmest. The manager would prefer not to contemplate who will take the armband on a permanent basis just yet, concentrating as he is on strengthening the collective, but he may just have found his man. Last gasp contributions tend to have such far-reaching effects.
Kane, a forward with 75 Premier League goals to his name over the past three terms and seven in his final two outings of the season, would have expected to prosper here. After all, the Tottenham Hotspur striker found himself confronted by Christophe Berra, a player whose contract at Ipswich – mid-table in the Championship – expires at the end of the month before a summer return to Hearts. Evade Berra and there was Charlie Mulgrew, recently relegated to League One with Blackburn. Kane has prospered against better players all year, and would ease between the latter and the impressive Kieran Tierney to volley home his reward. Yet it said much about Scottish resilience that this contest had actually drifted beyond the mid-way period in the second half before he had glimpsed a proper sight at goal.
Ryan Bertrand mustered a centre to exploit momentary hesitation, the Scots apparently distracted by a substitution on their right, only for Craig Gordon to react and turn away Kane’s flashed header. That was as close as he came until stoppage time, when it had appeared even the Royal Marines, England’s saviours last weekend on the infamous “sheep dip” on Woodbury Common, could not spare them the ignominy of defeat. Southgate will delight in a point but will recognise plenty of failings from this showing. For long periods this had been a painful reminder of the truism every recent permanent England manager, bar Sam Allardyce, has learned to endure. The England team which reconvenes in the summer, most obviously at tournaments, tends to lack the effervescence they usually display in the autumn internationals, the long slog of a Premier League campaign having dulled their sparkle.
There was a sloppiness in their possession, the cross-field passes as likely to soar over full-backs’ heads as find an ally. The attacking play was prone to overelaboration, the slicker moves invariably running aground on massed ranks of rugged Scottish defence, with Marcus Rashford’s instincts forever to drift into central areas when England needed to stretch their opponents further wide. Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who would eventually provide some hustle and bustle to prise the home side apart five minutes after his introduction, appeared a more natural fit in that role.
This was Southgate’s first taste, as senior manager, of a familiar issue. The Tottenham contingent, whose season had extended to five competitions, had taken part in a post-season friendly in Hong Kong since domestic duties were curtailed. Rashford, his senior career still in its infancy, has never known a season of such first-team toil. Perhaps that explained a lack of dynamism, though it could hardly be used as an excuse. The Scots, with their hefty Celtic contingent, have hardly spent the past nine months with their feet up. How this arena rocked as Griffiths threatened to pilfer the points at the death. The pained intake of breath which greeted Kane’s equaliser was one of resignation.
Even so, the visitors’ lack of efficiency with the ball will have infuriated Southgate. It also served to heighten Kane’s anxiety while that goal drought at this level, stretching back to the friendly win over Turkey last May, was still playing on his mind. The two chances that fell to the forward up to the interval were both awkward, the first born of Eric Dier’s lofted pass with Kane shinning his attempt high and wide. There was more precision to Bertrand’s exchange with Adam Lallana moments later, the Liverpool midfielder scuttling to the byline to clip over a cross, but the captain was on his heels and could not collect cleanly. Fortunately for England, his moment was still to come. “This is a day I’ll never forget,” he added before departing the arena. The captain had made his point.
Chris Coleman has always wanted Wales to focus on the future rather than basking in last summer’s success, yet with Sunday’s World Cup qualifier against Serbia taking place exactly a year after their opening match at Euro 2016, even the manager had to concede that it was impossible not to take a trip down memory lane.
That glorious, sun-drenched afternoon in Bordeaux, when Wales marked their first appearance at a major tournament for 58 years with a dramatic 2-1 victory over Slovakia, evokes so many happy thoughts for Coleman, although the moment that will live with him for ever has nothing to do with anything that took place on the pitch.
“When the national anthem started, that’s what I’ll always remember,” the Wales manager said. “Two things stand out: the respect we showed Slovakia when their national anthem was played – it was silent from us, which was great; and then with our national anthem … the noise, wow, that was unbelievable. That’s what I remember. Of course I remember the goals. But definitely, first tournament, first game, singing the national anthem – that was as good as it gets.”
Coleman would love to experience more of the same next summer but that World Cup dream will be fading fast if Wales come away from Belgrade with nothing. Trailing Serbia and Republic of Ireland by four points at the halfway stage of the qualification campaign, Wales can ill afford to lose more ground and they will be without the suspended Gareth Bale as well as Neil Taylor, Hal Robson-Kanu, James Collins and Andy King.
They remain unbeaten in Group D, yet their supporters are a little deflated on the back of four draws from five matches, especially as the lead was squandered in three games, and pessimistic about their qualification chances as a result. Coleman has picked up on that shift in the mood back home and believes expectations have changed after reaching the semi-finals at Euro 2016.
“In the last campaign we drew at home to Bosnia and it was like we’d won. This campaign when we’ve drawn it’s been like a defeat because of what’s happened between the Bosnia game and drawing in Austria. What happened in between was unprecedented, nobody thought we were going to get to those dizzy heights. You go to Austria and come back with a point and it’s a disappointing result because we’ve qualified and been to a semi-final of a tournament.
“I can’t say it has surprised me because I expected it unless we won every game in this campaign or we were top. It’s human nature that if you get so far, you expect a bit more and want a bit more. But we can’t look at anybody else. It’s down to us.
“Everybody looks at us differently and it’s been tougher – we’ve been striving for so long to be in this position where teams take us seriously and the expectation is higher. The expectation is higher for a reason – because we produced.”
With Coleman maintaining that this will be his last campaign as manager the prospect of Wales not qualifying for Russia has raised questions about his position and whether he could decide to stand down sooner rather than later, maybe even after the Serbia match if things go badly.
“I don’t like talking past the next game, it’s never served me right in the past,” Coleman said. “But I’ve had to mention it [now] because people think: ‘If we don’t get the right result or performance, what’s my future?’ But there’s another 12 points after that and if it’s second place that we’re chasing, but it’s doable, then I’ve got to absolutely go for that with everything that I’ve got. Why wouldn’t I?
“I’m still optimistic of getting a result in Serbia. We are four points behind with five games to play. Are we good enough to win three or four on the bounce? I don’t have to tell you the answer to that. Whether it’s Serbia away, it doesn’t matter. I know we can get a result because we’ve gone to hard places before and done it.”
There is no getting away from the fact that Bale’s absence is a huge blow and with Robson-Kanu and Ben Woodburn, the young Liverpool forward, also missing it leaves Wales short of attacking options beyond the Burnley striker Sam Vokes. Coleman, though, remains positive and believes Wales have “enough to touch those right buttons again” providing they are in the right frame of mind.
“Hopefully we’ll have that mental sharpness and focus so that if we’re in the lead we can hang on to it and see it out, because that’s what’s been missing in this campaign,” he said. “We’ve not seen the job through for 90 minutes. We’ve got to a certain level and then just lacked a bit of concentration. That’s what we’ve got to get back.”
Serbia (probable) Stojkovic; Ivanovic, Obradovic, Nastasic; Rukavina, Matic, Milivojevic, Tosic; Kostic, Tadic; Mitrovic
Wales (probable) Hennessey; Chester, Williams, Davies; Gunter, Allen, Ledley, Richards; Ramsey, Lawrence; Vokes
Martin O’Neill has warned his Republic of Ireland players not to take a backward step as they strive to reach next year’s World Cup and knock one of their main rivals, Austria, out of the running. The teams face off in Dublin on Sunday in a match of pivotal importance in one of Europe’s most competitive groups.
At the halfway stage Ireland are level on points with the leaders, Serbia, and four points ahead of both Austria and Wales. Having won 1-0 in Vienna in November, they welcome the Austrians knowing that a draw would probably be more helpful to them than to the visitors. But O’Neill does not want such thoughts to infect the minds of his players and has urged them treat this as a make-or-break battle like their famous duel against Italy at Euro 2016, when Robbie Brady’s goal earned passage to the last 16.
“That night we knew at the very beginning that we couldn’t rely on anything else so had to go and win the game – sometimes that focuses you and stops you thinking negatively,” said O’Neill. “This is a big, big game for Austria and we want to be positive. I don’t think we could have gotten these points we have on the board without being positive so let’s not fall into our shell.”
Injury deprives Ireland of two of their best players, Séamus Coleman and Shane Long, but O’Neill is grateful that Jon Walters has recovered from the knee problem that had threatened to rule him out of action too. The Stoke City striker says he is “completely fine” after training without pain for two days this week and he is expected to start in a central role up front, possibly as captain.
Walters has become a folk hero in Ireland in recent years thanks to his full-blooded bravura and O’Neill believes the player is particularly deserving of a place at the next World Cup, having helped propel Ireland to Euro 2016 only to miss most of his team’s matches there because of injury.
“Jon was a talisman for us in European qualification but picked up injury before the competition started and only played little bits here and there so it’s nice to have him on board because he’s been terrific for us,” said O’Neill. “He’s a great warrior and, more than that, he has great ability and that helps us immensely.”
While Walters seems certain to start, O’Neill has several other several selection riddles to solve. Most notably, a manager who has a tendency to spring surprises in his lineups must decide whether to keep faith with Darren Randolph in goal even though the 30-year-old lost his starting place at West Ham towards the end of the Premier League season and looked shaky during last week’s friendly win over Uruguay. The alternative is Sheffield Wednesday’s Keiren Westwood, who has not featured in a competitive international for five years.
O’Neill also has a difficult choice to make in central defence, where John O’Shea, Richard Keogh and Shane Duffy are vying for the two slots. Additionally, there is the question of whether to include the experienced Glenn Whelan in central midfield despite the appeal of a dynamic duo consisting of Harry Arter and Jeff Hendrick. O’Neill must decide whether to deploy the creative talents of Wes Hoolahan from the start or preserve the 35-year-old for an introduction from the bench if required.
Those might seem like relatively innocuous problems to Austria’s beleaguered manager, Marcel Koller, who has been shorn of seven players for a match that risks being his last in charge in the event of defeat. Absences in defence may force Austria to a formation featuring a back three, while their offensive threat looks weakened by the loss of the suspended Stoke forward Marko Arnautovic and injuries to Sparta Prague striker Marko Janko and RB Leipzig’s Marcel Sabitzer. Worryingly for Koller, he has been forced to rely on his fourth-choice goalkeeper, Heinz Lindner, who is reputed to be vulnerable in the face of robust forwards such as Walters.
Republic of Ireland (probable) Randolph; Christie, O’Shea, Duffy, Ward; Arter, Whelan; Brady, McClean, Hendrick; Walters
Austria (probable) Lindner; Hinteregger, Prödl, Dragovic; Lazaro, Alaba, Junuzovic, Baumgartlinger, Klein; Burgstaller, Harnik
Paris on Tuesday is the final stop in John Stones’s inaugural season as the most expensive English defender in history and a reunion with Kylian Mbappé would represent a fitting end to it. The campaign has vindicated his move to Manchester City, the England international insists, but there is also regret over what the Monaco forward and others denied him under Pep Guardiola: the first silverware of a fiercely scrutinised career.
“Very disappointed,” is Stones’s blunt assessment of his first season at the Etihad Stadium. “Purely because we had such a great team and we set the bar high. Disappointed on a personal note too as we all believe we can do better and in games I should have done better, which is what I want to improve on for the future.
“On another personal note it was unbelievable for me. My journey from the start of the season to the end, I’ve just changed completely as a player and grown off the pitch as well, which is what I went there to do.
“Pep’s message is to improve every day. That’s why I went to City and why I wanted to work with Pep – he’s got the best out of the players he’s worked with and won a lot of trophies. Ultimately, that is my goal – to become as good as I can be and win as many things as I can. As a kid I played in tournaments and my team won trophies but in my professional career I’ve not won anything yet. I’m hungry to get a medal around my neck.”
The Champions League did not satisfy Stones’s appetite as City exited in the last 16 against Monaco, for whom Mbappé scored home and away in dominant performances against Guardiola’s exposed defence. “He was clinical,” recalls the 23-year-old. “He’s a top player in the making and we’ll be looking to stop him. If I’m on the pitch I’ll definitely be looking to do that. He’s still new to the international game and I’ve been lucky enough to play a few games now.”
Stones’s struggles against the French teenager brought further criticism of City’s £47.5m acquisition from Everton, but also staunch support from Guardiola, who claimed the central defender had “more balls than everybody” in the Etihad press room after the 1-1 draw against Liverpool that followed. “It’s definitely helped to know he’s got my back but it’s not just him, it’s everybody at the club,” says Stones, who rejects the suggestion his English record price-tag has been a burden. “The money in football nowadays is frightening and I never thought I would have gone for a transfer like that but ultimately it’s not down to the player,” he says.
“It doesn’t really make it harder. I’m very fortunate to be bought for that amount of money, almost flattered by them paying that much, and I want to do that justice.”
An analysis of Stones or an interview with him rarely passes without reference to a playing style that separates the Barnsley academy graduate from the English norm and attracted Guardiola on his arrival at City last summer. He must find the debate tiresome? “I don’t, no,” the defender says. “You have to be single-minded but listen to what Pep and his staff want me to do for the team.
“Football has evolved and you see more and more teams playing that way. I’ve had some nice messages after games from players who I haven’t spoken to before. I won’t name people and drop them in it, but I’ve had messages from opposition strikers and defenders saying that they respect and love the way I play, telling me to keep doing it and not to change the way I am.
“To hear that is great for me and has given me a lot of confidence. It’s a classy touch from them as well. They don’t have to go out of their way to say that. Hopefully, when I get towards the end of my career I’ll be able to do the same for up-and-coming players and people who you can see could become top players. I’d like to be able to have that bit of class.”
Stones will wear No5 for City next season but the switch to a more traditional defensive number from 24 does not reflect a change in style, more a tribute to its previous owner, Pablo Zabaleta.
“I spoke to Zaba before I took the shirt,” he says. “I thought it was the right thing to do, not ask for his permission but his blessing almost. We joked about him winning silverware wearing that number and hopefully I will do it justice.
“That’s the ultimate thing: doing the shirt justice for me and for my team.”
If anyone should know what to expect when the Lions play in Dunedin on Tuesday it is James Haskell. Five years ago he was living in the beachside suburb of St Clair and playing for the Highlanders as part of a personal odyssey which also involved stints in France and Japan. Choosing the road less travelled was the best decision he ever made.
Far from being the death of his international career, it has proved the route to ultimate fulfilment. The 32-year-old flanker thought his treasured Lions dream had evaporated, only to receive a late call last month as a replacement for the injured Billy Vunipola. No visiting player will be keener than Haskell when he revisits the Forsyth Barr Stadium.
Even now he remembers the “amazing” experience with genuine affection. “It’s a time of my life I look back on really fondly,” Haskell said. “I loved playing Super Rugby and I was really welcomed by everyone. I threw myself into the culture by going diving, fishing, shooting and boxing and I loved the whole place. When I left I missed it.”
His dozen games in a Highlander jersey also taught him much about the Kiwi rugby psyche which his Lions team-mates would do well to listen to. He suspects many visiting players, for example, underestimate the all-consuming nature of the national sport. “Everybody in New Zealand wants to be an All Black; they just have such a desire to have the ball in hand and to play touch from a very early age,” he said. “In the UK rugby’s down the pecking order.”
Haskell was reassured to discover, even so, that not all New Zealand rugby players are supermen; they just play a different type of rugby. “My experience of Super 15 dispelled a few things I was led to believe from the media, from TV and from watching highlight reels.
“ I think to a man we’re probably bigger than these guys but athletically they’re a different kind. In New Zealand there’s always another cab off the rank. Just when you think you’ve seen the best thing, there’s another one. Super Rugby is a very different league but it would be interesting to see what would happen if you put some of those teams in the Premiership. Kingsholm on a February rainy day in the mud, for example, with relegation and everything else involved.”
The Lions, either way, have less than a fortnight to finalise the best way to derail the All Black machine and Haskell believes the solution is no secret. “Against New Zealand you have to be super-disciplined, very direct in what you’re doing. You have to play for the full 80 minutes and you have to execute everything at the top of your game. What they do is not rocket science: it’s executing with speed, intensity and accuracy. They consistently do it for 80 minutes. Turn your back and they’ve got the skill set to punish you. Everyone knows what to do but it’s another thing getting out on the field and delivering it. It’s not about containment.”
Dominating physically is clearly another prerequisite – “You have to impose yourself on these teams; I’m not saying it’s the go-to but it’s certainly part of what we’re trying to do” – and Haskell, despite having four staples inserted in his head after being caught by a team-mate’s elbow during the warm-up to his Lions debut against the Blues on Wednesday, is not about to settle for an indefinite midweek role. “The moment I got here I wanted to compete for a Test spot like everybody else. I’m just not built to sit here and have coffees, I want to push myself as hard as I can.”
If, furthermore, there are young players at home wondering if a spell playing abroad might be worthwhile, Haskell advises them to pack their bags immediately. “I’m a firm believer that you only learn from playing and really testing yourself. If you’re sitting around not doing anything, get a plane ticket and come and play wherever you can.” As his career has conclusively demonstrated, those who venture the furthest from their comfort zone often gain the most.
Full to bursting with kids this England side may have been but they snatched the most remarkable of wins against Argentina with a try at the death by Denny Solomona. One of 10 debutants, Solomona combined brilliantly with two others to steal a game that had twisted this way then that and seemed certain, at last, to have been settled in Argentina’s favour.
It was a suitably stylish way to round off one of the most outrageously entertaining second halves of recent times. A win against a team as accomplished and familiar with each other as the Pumas represents quite the statement from England’s youngsters, who were marshalled superbly by George Ford. The fly-half can be inconsistent but when he’s as good as this he should be pulling on the red of the Lions.
“I thought it was an incredible game of rugby,” said Eddie Jones. “In the end I think we had 10 new caps on there and to show poise and stick to what we needed to do in the circumstances was an unbelievable effort from the young guys.”
The match was never less than entertaining but it took a while to reach real excellence. It came as no particular surprise that Argentina were the quickest to settle, their props squeezing England’s youngsters to win a penalty at the first scrum, which Nicolás Sánchez just missed from an angled 50 yards. The hosts also pinched the first England lineout, from which possession they scored the first try, in only the eighth minute: on the blindside, Sánchez’s wicked chip sat up nicely for Emiliano Boffelli to touch down on his debut.
Such a madcap match was made for back-row forwards, and England’s flankers, Mark Wilson and the 18-year-old Tom Curry, had excellent debuts, the former in particular disrupting Argentina possession. But it was Ford who proved the master. The timing of his passes kept the Pumas guessing and, best of all, he was as confident as a king off the tee, helping himself to a tally of 23 points, including a try of his own, whose conversion was the only kick he missed.
His first two penalties drew England back to within a point, before they took the lead on the half-hour. If Ellis Genge was having a rough time in the scrum, his work in the loose was as excellent as ever. He was on to a loose ball on his 22 and away. Then another debutant, Alex Lozowski, further stretched the Pumas with a superb run before Ford’s fine cut-out let Marland Yarde loose against the tight-head prop. No contest.
Argentina finished the half stronger, scoring 10 points in the four minutes before the break. Another loose England pass was punished when Jerónimo de la Fuente sparked a passage of brilliant interplay down the left, setting up Tomás Lavanini for a monstrous drive at the line and Argentina’s second try. Sánchez’s penalty on the stroke of half-time earned the Pumas a 17-13 lead.
In the second half, though, both teams sharpened their act to spectacular effect. England responded with 10 points in the first seven minutes to take the lead again. Ford’s 42nd-minute penalty was followed by a turn of excellence from Henry Slade, who dummied clean through Argentina’s midfield and sent a chip to the corner, where Jonny May touched down. Ford converted from the touchline once more.
And so Argentina took a turn for the brilliant. Solomona came on for his much-anticipated debut and immediately found himself in the middle of a whirlwind. Martín Landajo broke past Curry and inside Solomona from a scrum to set up De la Fuente for Argentina’s third, before they struck for their fourth with the best of the lot.
Matías Orlando broke through Solomona’s tackle deep in his own half and took the ball deep into England’s. Solomona managed to get back, only to be turned inside out by Boffelli, who then sent Joaquín Tuculet to the line.
The match turned again in the final quarter. A remarkable 55-metre penalty on the angle by Ford drew England back to within five, before England’s maestro closed the deficit entirely with a try of his own. He combined superbly with Piers Francis – another making his first England outing, back from a spell in Super Rugby – to streak clear of the cover for England’s third. Remarkably, he missed the conversion: the game was tied. If ever one deserved to be so exquisitely poised for the final 15 minutes, it was this.
First, it seemed England might close the game out as they pressed on Argentina’s 22. But of all people Dylan Hartley, the skipper on 85 caps, became the latest to spill the ball in a ferocious tackle, and Argentina broke out through Orlando and Ramiro Moyano, setting up Juan Martín Hernández for the coolest of drop goals. Argentina’s game, surely …
No. Up stepped Solomona, and not for anything so mundane as defensive work. This time he showed what he could do with ball in hand. Jack Maunder, yet another debutant, combined with Francis down the right to set Solomona stepping, smashing and streaking away through the Pumas defence to steal an extraordinary match at the death.
“We came here to win 2-0 and that’s what we are going to do,” said Jones, teeing up next week’s match in Santa Fe. England may still be an inexperienced team then, but after this remarkable win they will feel a whole lot less so.
It probably should not be a shock that new chapters in the extensive back catalogue of glorious Scottish sporting failures are still being written in 2017. How familiar this was; how painfully familiar.
Cold analysis should surround Scotland’s concession of two horrendous goals, the kind that undermine international campaigns and cost managers their job. The goals scored by Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain and Harry Kane were horribly reminiscent of the type Scotland have continually shipped in recent times. Another blunt truth is that a point against England probably is not going to be much use in this World Cup quest, the Scots having been trounced in Slovakia and failed to beat Lithuania at home. They need so much more, plus favours, between now and the campaign’s conclusion.
Nonetheless, offering such comment feels harsh. In two glorious moments, Hampden rejoiced in a manner once customary but not witnessed since the win over France in 2006. Before old failings returned, Scotland dared to dream of a first victory over England here since 1985.
“That was the one, at 60 years old, that could have been the best result of my footballing career,” said Gordon Strachan. “You can’t question the personality or character of those players. That was beyond the call of duty at times. They pushed themselves to another level.” He said the draw had felt like a defeat.
Strachan had followed his instinct that a three-man defence was the most viable means to halt a powerful England front four. That backline – of Christophe Berra, Charlie Mulgrew and Kieran Tierney – contained only left-footed players. The Scotland starting XI featured seven.
Good news for the future surrounds the fact that Tierney, a full-back at Celtic, is one of the finest Scottish prospects to emerge in years – if “prospect” is still applicable, that is. He endorsed his rising status with an excellent display.
If it was understandable for Strachan not to express hope that his team could make a mockery 5-1 odds on the grounds of what talent was at his disposal, harping back to the 3-0 loss at Wembley in November made little sense. “The performance that night gave us a lot to be optimistic about,” said Strachan in his programme notes. “We were the better team for large periods of the match.”
If the media indulged in this kind of gross exaggeration as routine, managers like Strachan would have plenty to say about it. The reality in London was that Scotland were not efficient either in defence or attack, leading to a match that was over with half an hour to play. England barely emerged from first gear during their canter to victory.
A further glance back to Strachan’s pre-match comments was necessary within three minutes. “That ‘get intae them’ theory of playing football is gone,” insisted the manager. “They are well in control of their emotions.”
Strachan’s captain, Scott Brown, was not on message. A reckless tackle on Dele Alli with only 150 seconds played earned the midfielder a booking. This was an archetypal case of playing to the gallery by an individual who has never been famed for fine tackling. Brown was later woefully lame as Oxlade-Chamberlain breezed past him en route to opening the scoring.
And yet, Brown’s rush of blood aside, so much of Scotland’s opening was impressive. They pressed and harried their visitors to the point where England were rattled for the first 15 minutes. The only problem was that Scottish energy was not reflected in chances created. An attempt by Lee Griffiths from 18 yards, which did not trouble Joe Hart, was the sum of Scotland’s early play.
Scotland’s problems soon resonated. Robert Snodgrass was toiling badly, with Stuart Armstrong failing to impose himself on proceedings and James Morrison virtually invisible. Griffiths was a chronically isolated figure in attack for the remainder of the first half, during which Kane should have afforded England an unassailable advantage.
Perhaps having sensed England’s fragility, Scotland roused the home crowd by starting the second period with considerably more composure and confidence than they had ended the first. Griffiths later emphasised that with two free-kicks worthy of the highest praise; he was already running away in celebration before both hit the net.
Strachan’s emotion was soon different. He slammed a water bottle to the ground in disgust as Kane finished at the back post. A football nation, for once, knew precisely how he felt. “I’m too tired to think about the future,” Strachan said. “I just want to get home.”
Ben Stokes left Edgbaston with praise from both captains ringing in his ears following the destructive unbeaten 102 that sees England head into their Champions Trophy semi-final on Wednesday glowing with confidence and Australia on the next plane home.
Stokes, in registering his third one-day hundred, continued a rich run of form that has carried through from his time in the Indian Premier League.
The Rising Pune Supergiants made him the tournament’s most expensive overseas player with a £1.7m deal but for his national team captain, the all-rounder is priceless.
“His potential is through the roof,” said Eoin Morgan, whose 87 helped pile on 159 with Stokes for the fourth wicket. “His batting was exceptional. He was very calm with the crease, very relaxed and all those games he’s played really came to the fore.
“He was outstanding. I think the IPL auction proved [his value]. He’s always looking to influence the game, with bat, ball or in the field.”
Australia’s Steve Smith, who captained Stokes in IPL, said: “I don’t like to put tags on guys but he’s a fantastic player and getting better. He played a fantastic innings, took the game on and was hard to stop. He’s an incredibly strong lad and hits the ball very hard – those are the kind of things you want in white ball cricket.
“I think he’s probably developed some smarts and the timing of his innings. I’m sure the more he plays, the better he’ll get. He’s in exceptional form at the moment.”
On his team’s exit following two washouts against New Zealand and Bangladesh before this rain-affected loss, Smith said: “I thought we let ourselves down a little bit today. When you’re playing in a big tournament for your country, you need to step up and get the job done. We weren’t able to do that on this occasion.”
Morgan credited his bowlers for keeping Australia to 277 for nine, Mark Wood and Adil Rashid picking up four wickets apiece. It is something that has given the captain greater belief that he could be lifting the trophy at The Oval next Sunday.
He said: “The last two games, we’ve proved that we can peg sides back regardless of where they’re at going into the last 15 overs, which probably two years ago was a bit of a car crash for us. So that’s a huge improvement. And our batting just seems to thrive.”
Morgan also said Jason Roy’s position will now be reviewed before Wednesday’s semi-final in Cardiff after 51 runs from eight innings this summer. Jonny Bairstow, who has opened previously for Yorkshire but not at international level, is waiting in the wings.
“It’s unfortunate that Jason didn’t get runs today. We’re obviously three games in and we’ll take a couple of days to have a look at what our best team is for the semi-final. We revisit it every game – everybody’s position,” he added.
Gareth Southgate described Harry Kane’s 93rd-minute equaliser against Scotland as a huge and significant show of character from England, one he believes will propel the team on the “enormous journey” needed to deliver on a World Cup stage.
England were facing the end of a 34-game unbeaten run in international qualifiers and a first defeat at Hampden Park since 1985 when Kane, Southgate’s captain for the day, salvaged a draw in stoppage time. The substitute Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain had given England the lead only for two stunning free-kicks in the final three minutes of normal time from Leigh Griffiths to transform the contest.
Gordon Strachan, the under-pressure Scotland manager, said the 2-2 draw felt like a defeat and was “probably the most emotional game of my managerial career”. Victory would have revitalised his country’s chances of reaching Russia next summer. Instead the point leaves them languishing fourth in Group F with four matches to play.
England’s manager, by contrast, accentuated the positives from a late recovery that he claimed went some way to answering doubts over the national team’s character. He also spared Joe Hart criticism for Griffiths’ free-kicks, the first beating the England goalkeeper to his left, the second to his right, claiming credit belonged to the Celtic striker for executing two outstanding finishes under extreme pressure.
“It was a huge moment for the team,” said Southgate of Kane’s first international goal in more than a year. “The questions around this team centre on character, they centre on our ability to withstand events that go against you. That’s what we have shown, that we are a team that is never beat. The clock may run out but you never stop. Today we didn’t stop and a real quality finish got us the point. Is it what we wanted? No, but the chain of events was remarkable.
“Anything is possible in football. You can get moments where someone produces an unbelievable moment of quality and then the crowd is on a huge high. We had that conversation this week and it is important. It’s fundamental to being a top team but it is only one small step in that direction. We can still improve in all areas but nevertheless it was a significant moment.”
Gary Neville, on pundit duties for Sky, faulted Hart’s positioning for the Griffiths free-kicks but the Manchester City keeper, who has spent the season on loan at Torino and appears destined to leave the Etihad Stadium this summer, was spared public condemnation by his manager. Southgate said: “I need to look at it again. They were two brilliant finishes. Firstly you don’t concede free-kicks in those positions. I couldn’t understand the first free-kick or why [Scott] Brown escaped a second yellow card. If you concede those free-kicks in international football you run the risk of being punished by a moment of quality.”
He added: “Joe has been excellent this week. I thought he showed excellent composure with the ball at his feet and he’s been one of the outstanding leaders in the group this week.”
England remain comfortably on course to reach for the World Cup, maintaining their impressive sequence of qualification, but Southgate admitted the team must improve to finally make an impact at tournament level. “It’s clear, our record is three knockout wins in 25 years,” he added. “We have a young team emerging, there was a 19-year-old and a 21-year-old in the front line today who haven’t played in many occasions like this. There is great potential, a desire on their part and a desperation to do well for the shirt but of course we’ve got an enormous journey to go to match teams that have won World Cups and European Championships with players who perform in the Champions League regularly.”
Strachan was shattered at being denied the finest result of his Scotland reign, one that would have transformed his team’s prospects in the group. The Scotland manager said: “It feels like a defeat, aye. One pass, one header, it goes somewhere else and we’ve won the game.
“It was like a middleweight fighting a heavyweight out there and I am so proud of the way we kept coming back. That could have been my best result as a manager and I’ve been lucky enough to get some good ones against Man United and AC Milan.
“The power and strength and speed of England is phenomenal. To keep coming back was brilliant. To have that free-kick at the end of the game when you’re tired by Griffiths was brilliant. They pushed themselves to another level to get a result for their country.”
With lunch approaching on the second day, Surrey appeared to be squandering the extremely strong position they had built on the first. Their final five wickets had fallen for 46 in the first 70 minutes to be bowled out for 399 and, with Surrey’s bowling as wayward as their batting had been witless, Essex had ghosted to 55 without loss. We know by now that Alastair Cook gorges on short stuff and Surrey’s attack, particularly Mark Footitt, were spoiling him.
But Sam Curran pinned Cook in front with the final ball of the session. Cook left looking perplexed, perhaps surprised to receive a ball that challenged him. Surrey went with a spring in their step and returned with purpose, finding three more wickets, with Footitt, swapping ends, producing a beauty to have Tom Westley caught behind. Gareth Batty pinned Nick Browne in front and Dan Lawrence cut him straight to point. Essex were 134 for four.
All of which made this a fine time for Ryan ten Doeschate’s first century of the season. This was a fine, brisk innings (his 26th first-class century) on a ground, with short boundaries, a fast outfield and good track, that is mighty hard to defend on.
Ten Doeschate is mighty hard to defend against, too: tactically, he might be the best captain in the land, and – with this a case in point – he fights fires down the order, scoring all round the wicket, running brilliantly between the wickets (is there anyone better?) and punishing anything remotely loose.
There were plenty of punchy drives, and a beautiful pulled six off Ravi Rampaul on the way to a 120-ball century. The only blemish came on 39, when he was dropped down the legside by Ben Foakes off Batty.
He guided Essex to 367 for seven, 32 behind, and shared 120 with Ravi Bopara, who looked in fine touch, smashing Batty down the ground for six, until being fooled by a nipbacker from Stuart Meaker and pinned lbw. Simon Harmer was another doughty ally before he fell in the same fashion as James Foster, caught behind off Footitt.
The day had begun with Surrey’s surprise subsidence as they were bowled out one shy of a fifth batting point that for so long had seemed a certainty.
They had arrived full of optimism that they were about to see Curran’s maiden first-class century, and a first double for Mark Stoneman. Neither was to be.
Curran’s 65 was full of verve, chutzpah and boundaries (48 came in fours) but was ended when Neil Wagner got one to stay just a touch low, and pinned him in front. Stoneman and Batty saw them to within eight of 400, only for the last four wickets to fall for seven.
Stoneman fell driving Wagner and was caught by the diving Foster for 197, a career best. Stoneman, who with 617 runs is behind only Kumar Sangakkara and Gary Ballance in the runscoring charts, has no obvious weakness. Given Haseeb Hameed’s struggles and a golden duck at Canterbury for Keaton Jennings, who has not reached 50 in 10 Division Two innings, England’s selectors might want to take note. From first slip, Cook certainly had a good view of a prospective partner.
With no play possible at Southport, the only other Division One action was in another enthralling low-scorer at Taunton, where Peter Handscomb’s half-century turned a first innings deficit of 22 into a lead of 105 by stumps for Yorkshire over Somerset. Earlier, Ryan Sidebottom had taken the 31st five-wicket haul (and 750th wicket) of his long first-class career, which is due to finish at the end of the season, as Somerset posted 224, with the last six wickets worth 176.
Durham require 10 Kent wickets on the final day at Canterbury to secure their first win of the season and move into positive figures. They bowled Kent out for 236 (a lead of 212), with Sam Northeast unbeaten on 109 and career-best figures of six for 63 for Barry McCarthy, but declined to enforce the follow-on, instead batting 70 overs before declaring on 271 for six. Kent used the 10 overs before stumps to reach 35 without loss; they still need 449.
Worcestershire were frustrated by Glamorgan at New Road. Resuming on 76 for six in response to 267, two significant partnerships enabled Glamorgan to wiggle their way to 381 and a lead of 114, before Michael Hogan dismissed Daryl Mitchell to leave Worcestershire 34 for one. Jacques Rudolph made 111 and Chris Cooke 93 in a seventh-wicket stand of 158, before Joe Leach trapped both in an over. But Andrew Salter and Lukas Carey picked up the baton, sharing 124 for the ninth wicket. Salter finished 80 not out, his second career-best in as many matches.
Nottinghamshire quietly took control against Gloucestershire at Bristol. Having bowled the hosts out for 303 (with Gareth Roderick adding just eight to his overnight 88) they trail by 82 with seven first-innings wickets in hand. Che Pujara, playing his last game for the leaders, fell late in the day for 67 having shared 146 with Samit Patel.
At Wantage Road, Northamptonshire were in clinical mood against Derbyshire. They bowled the visitors out for 176, with Ben Sanderson taking five wickets, then swelled their lead from 42 to 289 for the loss of four wickets by the close, with Rob Newton making 108.
Sussex’s last pair frustrated Leicestershire at Grace Road. After Mark Cosgrove was last man out for 128 of Leicestershire’s 340, Sussex were 201 for nine. By the time bad light intervened at 6.30, Vernon Philander (69) and Danny Briggs (23) had put on 75 to take Sussex to just 64 behind.
Stuart Dallas’s stoppage-time strike earned Northern Ireland a smash-and-grab 1-0 win over Azerbaijan that kept his team firmly on the road to Russia.
Missing eight players from the squad that went to France and without Gareth McAuley after a first-half injury, Michael O’Neill’s side struggled in the Baku heat and were thankful to the profligacy of Afran Ismayilov. The visitors secured an unlikely victory when Dallas rifled in a late winner, his first goal in a competitive international, having been teed up in the penalty area by the cool-headed Jonny Evans.
Dallas’s attempt was just the second on target that his side had mustered, O’Neill seemingly satisfied to settle for a 0-0 stalemate. But late goals have become a hallmark of this team in recent years and the winner ensured Northern Ireland would remain in second place in Group C regardless of results later on Saturday night and they received a further boost when the Czech Republic were held 1-1 in Norway.
The Azeris had been shell-shocked by the Northern Irish tactics in a 4-0 loss in November, conceding three times from dead-ball situations, and the first set piece here came in the third minute. Evans glanced over from the corner and after some nervy early moments Robert Prosinecki’s defence settled into a composed unit that strung together lengthy spells of possession, yet rarely crossed the halfway line.
On one of the few occasions they did go long it produced a clear opening for Ramil Sheydaev, who raced beyond an injured McAuley only to rifle his attempt over when faced by Michael McGovern. McAuley, who had been declared fit despite sustaining a thigh injury last month, was unable to continue and that meant O’Neill had to scrap his initial tactics with the introduction of Niall McGinn.
As the visitors settled into their new system Azerbaijan began to take control, their possession creeping up to 70%, yet there was little for the Northern Irish defence to contend with. Chris Brunt had slotted back in at left-back and his foray forward almost produced a goal when a low whipped cross just evaded Liam Boyce and Josh Magennis.
The half-time interval, which arrived just after McGovern repelled Azerbaijan’s first shot on target, from Pavlo Pashaev, allowed O’Neill to tinker with his tactics again. Magennis was pushed up to the role of attacking spearhead, with Boyce behind and McGinn and Dallas occupying the flanks.
The tweak did little for Northern Irish fortunes and the noise around the Tofiq Bahramov Stadium rose once more in the 64th minute when Ricard Almeida picked out Ismayilov, who turned Brunt inside out before firing at McGovern.
The visitors were tiring and they were nearly caught on the counter following a disastrous short-corner routine, while Evans’s lunge on substitute Namik Alaskarov somehow went unpunished.
The signs that this could be Northern Ireland’s night grew when Ismayilov blazed over as he closed on goal but there was still a sense of disbelief around the ground when Dallas scored in the second minute of stoppage time. He owed much to Evans’s decision to square it to him rather than shooting and the Leeds midfielder steadied himself before firing into the corner to spark jubilant scenes among the 300 or so travelling fans, who will now have a bit more hope that they might be travelling this far east again next summer.
Slovakia are now only two points behind England in Group F, after a 2-1 win in Lithuania. Goals from Vladimir Weiss and Marek Hamsik put them 2-0 up, before Darvydas Sernas’s late consolation.
Earlier, while Scotland and England were playing out their thrilling draw in Glasgow, Slovenia maintained their push for a place in Russia as goals from Josip Ilicic and Milivoje Novakovic gave them a 2-0 win over Malta in Ljubljana. The victors remain in third. Only group winners are guaranteed a place in the finals in Russia next year.
Sandro Wagner scored a hat-trick as the Group C leaders Germany stretched their 100% record to six games with a 7-0 win over San Marino in Nuremberg. Julian Draxler’s early effort set the Germans on their way and two from Wagner and a fourth for Amin Younes put them four goals clear by the break. Shkodran Mustafi increased Germany’s lead early in the second half and Julian Brandt headed the sixth before Wagner completed his hat-trick – and Germany’s scoring – with a header of his own five minutes from time.
In the same group the Czech Republic were held to a 1-1 draw away to struggling Norway, Theodor Gebre Selassie’s first-half strike cancelled out by an Alexander Soderlund penalty.
Robert Lewandowski netted a hat-trick as Poland maintained their six‑point lead at the top of Group E with a 3-1 win over Romania in Warsaw. The veteran striker opened the scoring with a 29th-minute penalty and doubled their advantage when he added a second just before the hour. A second penalty from Lewandowski sealed another win for the hosts five minutes later before Bogdan Stancu scored a late consolation.
Stevan Jovetic was another hat-trick hero as Montenegro held on to second place in the same group with a 4-1 win over Armenia in Podgorica. The former Manchester City man, now with Sevilla, added to an early strike by Fatos Beciraj to secure a comfortable win for his side, while the visitors replied late through Ruslan Koryan.
Denmark did their best to keep up the pressure on Poland with a 3-1 win over 10-man Kazakhstan in Almaty. Nicolai Jorgensen put the Danes ahead and Christian Eriksen added a second from the spot after Bauyrzhan Islamkhan was sent off in the dying stages of the first half. Islambek Kuat briefly reduced the deficit before Kasper Dolberg’s 81st-minute strike sealed victory for the visitors. The results left Denmark on 10 points from six games, trailing Montenegro on goal difference.
That he might match his hero Ayrton Senna in Montreal will doubtless not have escaped Lewis Hamilton’s attention when he entered qualifying for the Canadian Grand Prix, but to do so with a performance that echoed Senna’s brilliance was simply sublime. Taking the top spot at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, and in doing so equalling the Brazilian’s total of 65 pole positions, required a lap that was not only flawless but at the very limit of the unforgiving track and he delivered with a run he rightly described as close to perfection.
Already jubilant after a strong comeback from a difficult weekend at the last round in Monaco, he was left reeling when presented with a gift from the Brazilian’s family: a race-worn Senna helmet from 1987. “I am shaking. I am speechless,” he said. “The fact that I have now reached him in that area, I can’t believe it. I remember getting home from school and putting on the video of Ayrton so its strange that I’m here now with that many poles.”
He finished ahead of his title rival Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel in second, his team-mate Valtteri Bottas in third and Kimi Raikkonen in fourth, and acknowledged it had taken something special to do so. “Being that it is the most difficult season of my career racing against these two great drivers and Kimi and having us so close, pushes us all to the limit and relies on us all being perfect. We can’t be perfect but today I got as close as I could get.”
He has three poles already this season and that he would equal Senna’s total was inevitable but he did so with a lap that was more than fitting to go on par with his hero. “If I’m going to get a pole, get that special pole, if anywhere it’s going to be here,” he said.
“Coming across that line, almost holding your breath, hoping, fingers crossed, waiting, knowing that Sebastian was still on a lap, Valtteri was still on a lap. It was a good lap but you don’t want to get your hopes too much up because you’ll be disappointed if they do a better lap – but the intensity of the moment – I don’t really recall having as intense a moment.”
The scale of his achievement was recognised by the Mercedes nonexecutive chairman, Niki Lauda. “Incredible laps. Unforeseeable,” he said. “We did not expect he could go this quick. Lewis did a fantastic job.”
His consistent and quick running throughout qualifying was just the fillip he required and it was significant that he excelled on a track that shares many of the characteristics of Monte Carlo, where he had difficulty with his set-up and with putting the tyres into the correct temperature operating window.
But on the same selection of rubber at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, which has a similar low-grip, low-abrasion surface and short duration, low-speed corners, he had the Mercedes hooked up throughout. He led the timing screens in Q2 and put in a masterful quick run at his first attempt in Q3 of 1m 11.791sec. It had looked unbeatableimpossible to better but he went out again and promptly did soexactly that, claiming pole with an exceptional lap of 1m 11.459sec. His car control was fluid and while the walls in Montreal beckoned they were not even brushed.
The breathtaking run, the fastest recorded at the circuit, was not only enough to secure pole but also to allay some of the concerns of the team, who have been working to better understand their car’s performance. He was pushed by Vettel, who threw everything at his lap, but the magnitude of Hamilton’s achievement was further emphasised when the best the German could manage was a full three-tenths back.
Hamilton must now make the best of it on Sunday. He trails Vettel by 25 points in the drivers’ championship and while it is not job done, his record in Canada is strong. He has won here five times , two short of the record of Michael Schumacher, who he now trails by just three poles for the highest achieved by any driver. Hamilton has converted four of his previous five front of the grid starts at Montreal into victory and he shows every sign of being able to repeat the feat. Should he do so it will be the third time in a row and the perfect way to close what has already been an emotional weekend.
The two Red Bulls of Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen were in fifth and sixth respectively; followed by the Williams of Felipe Massa, the Force India of Sergio Pérez and Esteban Ocon and the Renault of Nico Hülkenberg. Fernando Alonso again had an impressive run putting his underpowered McLaren into 12th.
The only word to describe it is bedlam. It was certainly difficult to make sense of that extraordinary finale other than to say that, ultimately, Harry Kane showed everyone right at the end why Gareth Southgate had made him captain for the day. It was the 93rd minute when Kane denied Scotland their “football, bloody hell” moment and, in the process, that feat of escapology might have helped to secure him the armband on a longer basis.
That, however, tells only part of the story on a day when both sides experienced the exhilarating joys and excruciating disappointments of football, all in the space of a few minutes. For Scotland, in particular, it was an agonising way to finish a wild and eccentric encounter. Yet England will have their own frustrations bearing in mind they had been drifting towards a relatively prosaic 1-0 win before all that late drama when Leigh Griffiths brought the home crowd to a point of rare euphoria.
The two free-kicks that Griffiths expertly placed beyond Joe Hart came in the 87th and 90th minutes and it is doubtful Hampden has ever made a more deafening roar than when the second one curled into the England net. Before this game, the Scottish FA had announced a competition to find the greatest goal in the team’s history. Both of these free-kicks could make the shortlist and at that stage Scotland were on the verge of inflicting England’s first defeat in a qualifying fixture since October 2009.
Kane, though, had other ideas and it was a remarkably composed finish in the circumstances, ensuring Southgate’s team remain in a position of strength at the top of Group F. Kane’s right-foot volley was England’s get-out-of-jail card and the story changed again. Suddenly he was running to the corner to celebrate and, all across the pitch, Scotland’s players could be seen dropping to their knees.
Their grief was understandable but when they have time to reflect they should not to be too disheartened when, to put it into context, Gordon Strachan’s starting lineup featured three players from teams that will begin next season in England’s second tier and a centre-half, Charlie Mulgrew, who had just been relegated to League One with Blackburn Rovers.
If there was an imbalance of talent, Scotland seemed determined to make up for it in other ways. They were quick to the ball, strong in the tackle and could never be accused of lacking effort. They also had a captain, Scott Brown, who quickly gave the impression that whatever England’s players encountered alongside the Royal Marines last weekend was going to be chickenfeed compared to 90 minutes in his company. Brown’s first challenge on Dele Alli – a reducer, to use the old-fashioned parlance – earned him a yellow card inside the opening three minutes and he was fortunate, in the extreme, to stay on after another hack at the same player shortly after Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, one of England’s substitutes, had opened the scoring.
England had taken a while to settle but once they cleared their heads of any early uncertainty they had enough of the ball in promising positions to have made it a more straightforward assignment and that, perhaps, was the biggest disappointment for Southgate. England’s supporters had started going through their victory songs just before Griffiths turned the game upside down. Scotland had been compared, unfavourably, with San Marino. Indeed, the first goal from Griffiths took place with “Scotland’s staying home” as its backdrop. Southgate was exaggerating when he described it as “a game we were in control of for 80 minutes” but his exasperation was understandable and, without wishing to take anything away from Griffiths, these were moments that will bring more scrutiny on Hart’s performances.
He is not the goalkeeper he once was and Griffiths took advantage with one 25-yard effort towards one corner and then another, from a similar distance, into the other side. For Hart, it cannot be satisfactory to be beaten from that distance twice in quick succession. They were, according to Strachan, the best free-kicks he could remember from all his years associated with Scotland. From a goalkeeper’s perspective, however, neither shot was fully into the corner.
Until those moments Scotland had so little momentum in the final third of the pitch that Griffiths, playing as a lone striker, resorted to a penalty-area dive earlier in the second half. England found it difficult to get behind the opposition defence but Kane had at least three other presentable chances, one headed off the goalline by Kieran Tierney, and another shot from Jake Livermore came back off the post after deflecting off the striker.
Oxlade-Chamberlain had been on the pitch only five minutes when he turned past Brown, moved across the penalty area, right to left, and opened the scoring with a rising left-foot shot. England looked relatively untroubled until a foul by Gary Cahill gave Griffiths his first opportunity to take aim.
Strachan reflected that he had “never heard a noise like it” when the second one went in, leaving him on the verge of what he noted wistfully would have been the best result of his managerial career. England, however, set about rescuing themselves with all the competitive courage that Southgate had talked about in the buildup to the match.
It was an onslaught once the public announcer let everyone knew there would be four minutes of stoppage time and, finally, the substitute Raheem Sterling picked out Kane. England needed their captain and it was an elegant finish given the pressure on that moment and the consequences if he had failed.
This England side are dangerous when they play with freedom, as Australia discovered in the West Midlands Colosseum. And this was a free game for them. Unlike the rest of the teams in this tournament they were already assured of their semi-final slot at the start of play, which may have helped to account for the flamboyant, carefree manner in which they sent Australia packing. This outcome means that Bangladesh will be contesting the Edgbaston semi-final on Thursday.
Needing 278 to win England were propelled by a blistering partnership between Eoin Morgan and Ben Stokes. The margin of victory was dictated by the DLS method after yet more rain in Birmingham. But at least there was a proper result this time, England winning by 40 runs. They were 240 for four with 9.4 overs remaining when play was suspended.
On a surface that invited strokeplay, especially when there was pace on the ball, this pair had a packed house salivating in between singing: “Cheerio, cheerio, cheerio,” to their favourite rivals. Both left-handers were in sublime form. If anything Morgan rather than Stokes, whose innings was a model of powerful orthodoxy, had everyone gasping.
Sometimes England’s captain shimmied down the pitch to the Australian pacemen to crack the ball through the covers. At others he stayed back to smash it square. One of his sixes, an instinctive swipe off Josh Hazlewood, just kept going – defying the wind and the longest boundary. The faster Pat Cummins tried to bowl, the further the ball travelled.
The situation facing Morgan and Stokes mirrored that encountered by Bangladesh on Friday against New Zealand in Cardiff as three wickets fell early in the run chase. Such a setback would soon seem a pinprick.
There is space here to describe Jason Roy’s innings in full: a straight-driven boundary first ball; lbw to Mitchell Starc second ball, though proceedings were delayed when he misguidedly sought a review. His judgment was awry there as well. So the Roy conundrum continues. One suspects the 1922 Committee might have got rid of him by now.
Alex Hales was caught at slip off Hazlewood for a duck and Joe Root edged to the keeper just before the first interruption for rain. It was 35 for three and briefly England might have been relieved that this was a free game.
However, it transpired that three early wickets were not enough for Australia, just as four were insufficient for New Zealand against Bangladesh. When the players returned Morgan unveiled some sparkling cover drives and Stokes was soon into his stride.
The boundaries are reasonably big here but not large enough to contain Morgan in this form. He hit five sixes and could only be dispatched via a chaotic run out after 159 had been added. Stokes spooned towards mid-on and scampered for a run; Morgan watched the ball rather than his partner and Adam Zampa’s throw lit up the stumps. This was the best piece of Australian fielding amid some messy out-cricket, albeit in the gloaming of the late afternoon when it was obviously tough to pick up the white ball.
Morgan’s departure was not a great setback. Jos Buttler settled in without many alarms and Stokes with a hint of serenity – let’s hope he is not maturing too fast – had posted his third ODI century when the rain returned. By then an undercooked Aussie side had just about accepted the inevitable.
The rustiness of the Australian team was also reflected in their inability to make the most of a vigorous start when they batted. After 32 overs they were 181 for three and another target over 300 was on the horizon. But they could not capitalise. At one point they lost five wickets for 15 runs in the space of 26 balls with Adil Rashid and Mark Wood, who took eight wickets between them, their chief tormentors. In the end Australia reached 277 for nine thanks to a sparky innings from Travis Head, who was exasperated to watch the lower order come and go in the blink of an eye.
That rustiness, a consequence of the rain following Australia wherever they tread in the UK, did not appear to hinder the top order so much. David Warner had struck four crisp boundaries before he edged a delivery from Wood to Jos Buttler. Aaron Finch was less silky but eventually began to connect with the ball in his no-nonsense style. He shared a run-a-ball partnership with Steve Smith before lofting a catch to the extra cover region off Stokes, who would have one of his more profligate days with the ball.
Up went the ball into a swirling wind and it seemed to stay there long enough for the odds on the catch being taken to lengthen considerably. Morgan swivelled in a 360-degree arc, never a good sign, yet he caught the ball without fumbling or falling to the ground. No honest armchair critic from another era could profess that this was a simple catch which would have been easily gobbled up in his/her day.
Smith and Moisés Henriques, who looked devastating for 15 minutes, both fell to more straightforward catches by Liam Plunkett. Then Glenn Maxwell fell to what is regarded as a routine catch in this decade, but one which has the old-timers gasping. A Maxwell hammer off Wood headed for the Hollies Stand when Roy came into view; he caught the ball above his head, realised that his feet were going to cross the boundary and so he calmly tossed the ball in the air before returning to the field of play to catch it, a run-of-the-mill moment of brilliance in this era.
From there Australia subsided against Rashid, who was excellent for the second game in succession. Both Matthew Wade and Starc embarked on premeditated contortions to make the bowler’s job easier as Head looked on aghast from the non-striker’s end. It was a case of Australia keeping their Head while all about him were losing theirs.
Warriors forward Draymond Green made no secret of how he feels about Cleveland fans in the aftermath of the Warriors’ 137-116 loss in Game 4 of the NBA finals on Friday at Quicken Loans Arena.
“I don’t pay that much attention to anybody in Cleveland, honestly,” he said. “They don’t seem to be the sharpest people around.”
Green was the target of a hostile reception from the home crowd throughout the lopsided defeat, which denied the Warriors a finals sweep and the first perfect postseason in league history.
Chants of “Draymond sucks” were audible whenever the Golden State firebrand was at the center of the action, never more than a controversial sequence during the third quarter which saw Green nearly ejected.
A year after his antics on this floor led to a suspension for Game 5 that began the Warriors’ historic collapse, Green was again in the middle of the night’s strangest scene.
The 27-year-old appeared to be ejected when he was called for what the Cavs and Warriors thought was his second technical midway through the third quarter. He waved his arms in frustration at an official after being called for fouling Kevin Love and was hit with the tech, which would have triggered an automatic ejection.
But Green didn’t leave the court, and referees said the technical they called after Green’s foul with 1:55 remaining in the first quarter was on Kerr – though the official box score had it listed as Green.
No announcement was ever made correcting the error, not that Green was listening for one.
Kerr said he thought the first technical was called on Green – though said he thought he deserved it – and believed his power forward was going to have to leave the floor when the one was called in the third quarter.
But Green stood stoically on the floor, then egged on the crowd to raise the decibel level of their jeers toward him. He said he knew all along the first tech wasn’t on him.
“I knew because the first tech on Steve, which I didn’t understand, Mike Callahan came up to John (Goble) and asked him who was the tech on and he said Kerr,” Green said. “So I knew I didn’t have a technical foul, but still trying to figure out why did I get the second one.”
The box was changed after the third quarter to indicate Kerr had received the first technical.
The officials acknowledged after the game they did not handle the situation very well.
Goble said he thought he had verbalized to the table that the initial technical was on Kerr, but said after watching the video that he should have done a better job with that. The problem then worsened when the officials didn’t catch the public address announcer saying it was called on Green.
“The procedure is to advise the table who the technical foul is on and with the player we give a number. With a coach or trainer, we just verbalize and at that time we should listen to the PA announcer to who it is on,” Callahan said. “At that time, we did not do a very good job of listening to the PA announcer and we did not hear him announce it. I take full responsibility for that.”
Late in Game 4 last year, Green swiped at LeBron James’ groin and was subsequently given a flagrant foul. That gave him an accumulation of flagrant foul points and forced him to sit out Game 5 as the Warriors lost their chance to clinch the series, and they eventually fell in seven games.
So even though Friday was a bad night for the Warriors, at least they head home with good news.
“Thank God I get to play in Game 5,” Green said.
For the first time in its four-year history, the Women’s Tour of Britain will enjoy a grandstand finale in the centre of London on Sunday, and Poland’s Kasia Niewiadoma will have every right to enjoy the occasion after dominating the three days of racing since her solo victory on Wednesday’s first stage from Daventry to Kettering, where she carved out a 1min 46sec lead that has proved impregnable, in spite of the best efforts of her rivals.
On the toughest stage of the Women’s Tour, 122km out and back, a finish close to the church with the twisted spire, the Dutch teams Sunweb and Boels-Dolman both put the 22-year-old under pressure. Sunweb placed their Canadian rider Leah Kirchmann in an escape that lasted more than 90km, surviving to the finish, where Australia’s Sarah Roy took the stage win.
Boels-Dolman used the strength of the 2016 winner, Lizzie Deignan, to claw back the early three-woman escape, including Kirchmann, to within reach of the peloton before – in a classic tactical move – sending their best hope for the overall title, Luxembourg’s Christine Majerus, across to join Kirchmann’s group with 50km remaining.
Together with Roy and Shara Gillow, of the FDJ team, Kirchmann and Majerus raced into a lead of more than two minutes, with Niewiadoma isolated in a select chasing group that had formed during the excruciatingly tough opening phase, which alternated leg-breaking climbs and greasy twisting descents. The Pole needed the support of her team-mate Marianne Vos, but the multiple world champion and 2014 winner of this race had pulled out on Friday with a cracked collarbone after a late crash.
Deignan’s hopes of a repeat victory had evaporated after she was struck down by stomach trouble during Thursday’s hilly second stage around Stoke, losing nine minutes. Here she was prominent, but only in a team role midway through the stage, as Boels-Dolman chased the early breakaways before sending Majerus across the gap, while she could be seen later on protecting her team-mate’s bid for the overall title as the chase intensified behind.
However, the chasing group swelled as riders left behind in the early kilometres regained contact, and a chase – led notably by the Canyon-SRAM team-mates of the British national champion Hannah Barnes – brought the peloton to almost within touching distance of the escapees by the finish.
“This was one of the hardest races I’ve ever ridden,” said Niewiadoma, the under-23 European champion. “There were lots and lots of short and steep climbs; after a while I was completely done in, and then I had to think about controlling the other teams. I had to stay calm and think positively, I knew other teams would be destroyed on that course.”
In April, during the Ardennes Classics, Niewiadoma offered a taste of the form she has enjoyed this week, matching Deignan and the Olympic champion Anna Van der Breggen in Amstel Gold, Flèche Wallonne and Liège-Bastogne-Liège. Her victory on Sunday should be a clear-cut one, but that proviso has a little more bite to it than usual. The unexpected can always happen, as evidenced by a freak crash on the finish line that sent the stage winner, Roy, to hospital.
With echoes of Deignan’s high-speed accident on the opening stage in 2015, Roy sprinted up the cobbled street in front of Chesterfield’s market hall, about 10 metres in front of Majerus and Kirchmann, with the peloton breathing down their necks behind; as she raised her hands in the air to celebrate after crossing the line, she lost control of her front wheel on the bouncy cobbles, jack-knifed her bike and landed heavily on her right side.
Roy was not alone in finding Derbyshire a road of pain. Within 20 miles of the start, the race was in ribbons because of the constant steep climbs – several tackled after dead turns, which meant the riders started them almost from a standstill. The weaker riders buckled rapidly, and midway through the stage the broom wagon that picks up the stragglers had no sitting space left, with those who wanted to quit reduced to finding places in other race vehicles.
The Olympic road race champion, Katie Archibald, finished with blood streaming down her right leg and her jersey ripped, after a crash 10km from the finish. She crossed the line on the coat-tails of the bunch and dropped to 19th overall. She is now out of the running for the prize of best Briton, which has proved an entertaining subplot, acted out by the Barnes sisters, Hannah and Alice. After the younger sibling, Alice, took the jersey on Friday, thanks to a fine second place in Leamington, it went to Hannah on Saturday thanks to a strong fifth place and a fortuitous split in the peloton in the uphill finish.
The 79 survivors will be more than conscious of the recent background to Sunday’s climax in the British capital, if the feelings of the Queen of the Mountains, Audrey Cordon, are anything to go by. “I’ve been thinking about everything that happened,” said the Frenchwoman in a reference to the London Bridge terrorist attack, adding: “Racing will show that life goes on. Women can be on their bikes, be strong, and show that we know how to live.”
Crisis? What crisis? Godolphin’s all-blue silks were carried to victory in the first four races hereon Saturday as Sheikh Mohammed’s team began to move on from the shock of suddenly losing their chief executive in midweek.
One waggish bookmaker used Twitter to suggest Godolphin were “doing a Leicester City” in showing such excellent form so soon after a change in management. In reality, there was nothing particularly new or surprising in three winners from Charlie Appleby, one of Godolphin’s two main trainers in this town, and another from John Gosden, who has a sprinkling of their horses in his nearby yard.
Appleby mopped up the first two races with a couple of two-year-olds, a division in which he has had notable success this year, which may have led, indirectly, to Tuesday’s resignation of John Ferguson. Saeed bin Suroor, Godolphin’s other main trainer, appears to believe the division of two-year-olds this year has been somewhat unfair and indeed he is yet to have even a single runner from that age group, while Appleby has now had 10 winners from 15 runners. Bin Suroor vented in the press, prompting Ferguson’s departure.
Bin Suroor’s only runner on Saturday was at Haydock, so he was at least spared the sight of seeing Appleby making so many trips to the winners’ enclosure – including after the first race with the debutant Glorious Journey, who cost £2.6m at auction in October, when Ferguson was doing the bidding.
Regally bred, the colt has clearly generated quite a lot of expectation at Godolphin, prompting a reporter to ask Appleby if he was relieved about this initial success.
Denying it, the trainer replied cheerily: “Do I look like Theresa May?” For the record, there is not much of a likeness and Appleby also appears much more willing than the prime minister to address difficult subjects in public, since he responded to a question about Ferguson’s decision to quit and how it affected the organisation.
“John made his decision and felt it was the right one,” Appleby said. “I can only thank him for the help he’s given me over the years. He’s been a pleasure to work with.
“For myself, I’m employed by Godolphin to race horses and prepare them to the best of my ability with the team I have and that’s what I shall carry on doing. I’m not going to get involved in anything more than that, it’s not my department. My department is the horses and, as I said to William [Buick], his department is to ride them and, as long as we’re doing our best at that, then hopefully we’ll carry on getting the results that we see.”
Joe Osborne, appointed as Godolphin’s interim chief executive while Sheikh Mohammed considers what should happen next, was in Appleby’s stable this week, introducing himself to staff. It appears he has only half of Ferguson’s job, as the departed man was also racing manager and liaised with the trainers over running plans. With no one now in that role, the trainers are free to make more such decisions by themselves.
In Bin Suroor’s case, this is not much of a change, since it seems he decided to cut Ferguson out of the chain of command some time ago. If the Sheikh decides to appoint a new racing manager, that person will surely view the winning of Bin Suroor’s trust and support as job No1. Whatever the fairness or otherwise of the way horses have been split between the two trainers up to now, Bin Suroor, a native Dubaian who clearly has the Sheikh’s ear, can expect to get the cream in the future.
In the meantime, Appleby hopes to take a good number of his juvenile team to Royal Ascot in nine days’ time. “There’s not a standout among them but they won’t look out of place in the lineup,” he said. He also has the newly gelded Bay Of Poets for the Hampton Court, Endless Time for the Gold Cup and Frontiersman for the Hardwicke. His classy Hawkbill is likely to be saved for another day and a softer surface.
Hugh Anderson, Godolphin’s MD, said: “It’s been an interesting week but on Saturday, at the business end of the operation on the racetrack, we have seen a Group One win in Australia and a four-timer here at Newmarket. Godolphin is about great horses being prepared by excellent teams in our yards and studs. It’s about first-class trainers and winners. It’s been a good day all round and we look forward to much more success over the season.”
Nottingham
1.50 Peter Leonard 2.20 Hurricane Hollow 2.55 Cryptonite
3.30 Stake Acclaim 4.05 Kitty Boo 4.35 Dragons Voice
5.10 Indian Chief
Goodwood
2.00 Lightening Dance 2.30 Azzuri (nap) 3.05 Zac Brown
3.40 London Prize 4.15 Tie Em Up Tel 4.45 Time To Exceed
5.20 Crafty Madam (nb)
Roland Garros is where the Open era of professional tennis began in the fabled summer of 1968, when students took to the streets of Paris and Ken Rosewall picked up 15,000 francs, roughly £2,000, for beating his friend and rival Rod Laver in the final of the French Open.
Rosewall, who had been the youngest French champion at 18 in 1953 and then the oldest at 33, could have bought half a dozen houses in London with his winnings if he wanted to – although probably not around Wimbledon, where the All England Club matched the French purse in that year of social and political turbulence, joining the professional revolution and sending a definitive signal that the amateur sport had changed for ever.
When Rafael Nadal reaches for his 10th Roland Garros title on Sunday, and Stan Wawrinka tries for his second, the prize will be an altogether more stratospheric €2.1m, somewhere near £1.8m … at the time of writing. Turbulence is cyclical.
If life was simpler in 1968, the game was too. Coaches were what you arrived at the ground in. “We used to travel with each other, hit with each other,” Laver said. “That was as good as any coach.”
But Sunday’s final on Court Philippe-Chatrier, while resembling the collision of two small armies, should be every bit as significant and devoured with equal enthusiasm. Tennis in the 60s was played with different rackets and attitudes, perhaps, and had a different constituency but there would be no holding back change.
The Spaniard has been making history all of his career, much of it this year as he completed La Décima at Monte Carlo and Barcelona. Now, he goes for the hat-trick of 10s at the place where it matters most – to him, his fans and loyal devotees of clay-court tennis.
There have been minor rumblings that the red dirt of Europe might one day be swamped by low maintenance hard courts – just as the treasured grass of Wimbledon was meant to be under pressure, which has forced a longer lead time on the preparatory tournaments to sustain the interest of the top players – as if millions of whatever currency were not enough.
The titles still matter, though, and Nadal is desperate to move on to 15 majors and to within three of the absent Roger Federer. The Swiss cannily gave the clay season a swerve after his lightning start to 2017 so he could be at his refreshed best for Wimbledon, still his best chance of adding to his collection of majors.
Clay might not have been a graveyard for Federer but, until the arrival of Novak Djokovic to make life uncomfortable for Nadal, it was always on his list. Not any more. There is a possibility that after his 36th birthday in August he will not play here again, although his sponsors would cringe in disbelief were he ever to say so.
For now, the stage belongs to Nadal and Wawrinka. Selecting a winner might seem straightforward, given Andy Murray stretched Wawrinka’s total court time for the tournament by four hours and 34 minutes to 15 hours and 20 minutes in a brave but doomed semi-final over five sets on Friday.
Nadal, meanwhile, has sailed through the fortnight in a minute over 10 hours. To get here he did not have to go past two hours in any of his matches until the second semi-final on Friday, when he crushed the sixth seed, Dominic Thiem, 6-3, 6-4, 6-0. Murray avoided the concluding bagel against Wawrinka but only because he fought like a starving dog in a final set of stupendous hitting by Switzerland’s highest ranked player.
Nadal insists, not with much conviction, that: “I don’t care about the games I lost or not, or sets or these kind of things. The only thing I care about is I have been playing very well during the whole event and I was able to win all the matches. That’s the only thing that really matters.”
Tell it to Murray, who operated at considerably more draining level and admitted his legs had gone in the end against Wawrinka. Quick wins do matter in seven, best-of-five matches – it is absurd to suggest otherwise – so the advantage is most definitely with Nadal.
However, Federer does not call his compatriot “Diesel” for nothing. Wawrinka has the genetic gift of being able to chug through a long campaign like a tank, never weakening and always potent. Some of his hitting off the ground against Murray was as hard as it is possible to strike a ball and the Scot, perhaps the best retriever in the game now that Djokovic has declined, could do nothing about the 87 winners that flew by him – and was equally grateful for the 77 unforced errors that came off Wawrinka’s some times impetuous racket.
He will not play any differently against Nadal. Nor will the Spaniard alter his game. He plays with more urgency, perhaps, all fast-twitch fibre and sweat, while Wawrinka will have his trigger ready to press on any given occasion. He will move to No2 in the world behind Murray if he wins; Nadal will stay in that slot if he lifts the Coupe des Mousquetaires again.
If confirmation were needed that history always wraps its fingers around our memories Wawrinka and Nadal are the first pair of finalists here aged 30 or more since 1969. The combatants then were 30-year-old Laver and the 34-year-old Rosewall. The younger man got his revenge that day. And the younger man this time, having lost to Wawrinka in their only previous slam final, the 2014 Australian Open, will probably do likewise on Sunday.
There was good and less good news for British tennis on Saturday. Ivan Lendl confirmed he had decided to go straight to London to prepare with Murray for his Wimbledon defence rather than return to Florida. But Dan Evans had to retire with a calf injury when leading Dustin Brown 6-3, 4-2 at the Aegon Trophy in Surbiton. “I don’t know [the extent of the injury] until I have a scan on Monday. Hopefully, it’s settled down a bit.”
Things like this are not supposed to happen. In just her eighth grand slam event, the unseeded, fearless Jelena Ostapenko produced a stunning fightback to win the French Open title here. Her 4-6, 6-4, 6-3 victory over Simona Halep, the pre-tournament favourite, who would have been world No1 had she won the title, made her the first unseeded woman to win here in the open era. At 20, she is the youngest woman to win here since Iva Majoli of Croatia in 1997, the first Latvian to win a grand slam singles title and the first person to win their first tour title at a grand slam since the Brazilian Gustavo Kuerten lifted the first of his three titles here in 1997, something he achieved on the day Ostapenko was born.
Halep will wonder how she failed to clinch victory, having led by a set and 3-0 and having three break-point chances in a long fourth game of the second set that would have put her two breaks up. The Romanian also led 3-1 in the third set but, in truth, nothing about Saturday’s final was in her hands against Ostapenko, whose outrageous ball-striking sent the ball flying past her outstretched racket time and time again as her hopes of a first grand slam title were dashed in the dirt.
It was a stunning victory for a woman who went into the French Open as the world No47, a 100-1 shot and not even spoken about as a contender. The junior Wimbledon champion three years ago, Ostapenko had never even been beyond the third round of a grand slam until this fortnight but the way she played here suggests that she will be here for many years to come.
It was also fitting, on a sultry day at Roland Garros, that she should finish it off with yet another backhand return down the line, one of 54 clean winners she struck in the final.
“I still cannot believe I am the Roland Garros champion and I’m only 20,” said Ostapenko, who showed no nerves and never deviated from her simple, devastating gameplan of attack, attack, attack.
“I know Simona is a great player and she was playing great but I kept trying, stayed aggressive and I’m very happy things turned around for me. I have no words,” she added.
In the absence of Serena Williams, Maria Sharapova and Victoria Azarenka, all missing for a variety of reasons, this year’s French Open had been considered one of the most open of all time. Halep, most people’s favourite after winning in Madrid and reaching the final in Rome, was expected to be able to tame Ostapenko and when she withstood an early barrage of groundstrokes from the Latvian to take the first set, the 25-year-old was on track.
Knowing Ostapenko was capable of reeling off winners seemingly at will, Halep was well aware she needed to stay patient, accept when she was outhit and wait for the mistakes, while taking any chance she had to be aggressive. She must have hoped that Ostapenko would freeze on the big occasion but instead the Latvian looked relatively relaxed. The simplicity of her game means she does not second-guess herself, as she proved in beating players such as Sam Stosur and Caroline Wozniacki en route.
She had also come from a set down three times on her way to the final and when Halep failed to take any of her three break points at 3-0 in the second set, she had hope. That translated into belief when she cracked several winners on her way to levelling at 3-3 and when she broke for 4-3, she whipped up a crowd who were already willing her on, gasping at times at the ferocity of her flatly-struck groundstrokes. Though Halep broke back for 4-4, Ostapenko broke again and served out to force a decider.
At the start of the third, Halep saved two break points and then broke on her way to a 3-1 lead as Ostapenko’s radar went astray as she sprayed the ball long and wide, her focus dipping for a moment.
However, from 3-1 down she broke back for 3-3 and then, thanks to a bit of outrageous fortune when she got a dead net cord on a backhand that had been heading way wide, the 20-year-old broke to lead 4-3.
Finally in front in the match for the first time, Ostapenko might have blinked but she held serve brilliantly for 5-3. At 30-40 on the Halep serve, Ostapenko had match point and she rifled an unstoppable backhand down the line to clinch victory, leaping in the air and turning in delight in the direction of her two coaches, her mother and the former Spanish player, Anabel Medina, who had been on the edge of their courtside seats throughout.
Both players struggled on second serve and though Halep may chastise herself for not attacking more, she rarely had the chance. Ostapenko defended well when she needed to and as soon as she got in position, or even sometimes when she was not, she slapped the ball at break-neck speed.
Halep will be world No2 when the women’s rankings are updated on Monday and she was gracious in defeat. “All the credit for what you have done,” she said. “It’s an amazing thing. Enjoy it be happy and keep it going because you’re like a kid.”
She may be a kid but the kid is a grand slam champion and if she can continue to play without a semblance of fear for as long as possible, then this may be the first of many.
It sounds like a beginning of a strange joke, only it’s not. Usain Bolt and Mo Farah really are sat in a hotel room in Jamaica discussing who would win a 600m race between them. “I think I’d have a good chance,” says Farah. “Just because of my endurance.” Bolt throws him a look of mock-horror. “So what about me, you and David Rudisha?” Farah laughs. “That completely changes it,” he replies, chuckling. “Rudisha is strong. He has run 1min 40sec for 800m. He could jog and still have us.”
Rudisha, the great Kenyan stoic, is sat between the pair saying nothing. Bolt turns to him. “What do you think?” The double Olympic 800m champion is aware that he is on Bolt’s home turf in Kingston and doesn’t want to cause offence. “Er … well …,” he begins. Everyone cracks up.
Eventually, Rudisha decides that honesty is the best policy. “I have a bit of an advantage because I do a lot of 400m and 800m in training and races,” he says. “So I don’t think you have a chance there.” Cue more laughter. But there is no comeback. Everyone accepts that Rudisha tells it as it is.
A few minutes later, with the Observer, Rudisha makes another startling admission. He believes he is in even better form than last year, when he glided away from the field to win his second Olympic gold in Rio in 1min 42.16sec – his fastest time since that glorious night at London 2012 when he smashed his own world record and was hailed by Sebastian Coe as producing the greatest moment of those Games.
“What’s changed is that I have been able to do a lot more mileage again,” says Rudisha softly. “That is something I lacked since I seriously injured my knee in 2013. After that, if I attempted long runs I would feel some pain and have to stop because I didn’t want any setbacks. But I was able to put more work in during the winter and I am really happy.”
Rudisha did not looked overly impressive when he was beaten by the 19-year-old Kenyan sensation Kipyegon Bett in Shanghai last month. However, he explains that he had a minor strain, which has now cleared, and that his recent times in training over 400m and 300m – which he always uses a benchmark for how he will perform in competition – have surprised and delighted him. “I am in a better form than last year and I feel fantastic,” he says. “I just needed to do some fine‑tuning and I think my season will be great.”
Understandably, he has tunnel-vision focus on London in August and winning a third world championships title to go with his 2011 and 2015 victories. “I am really excited to go back to the stadium where I made history,” he says.
“The UK will always have a special place in my heart. The fans always welcome me and it has a great history of middle-distance athletes, from Sir Roger Bannister to Steve Ovett, Steve Cram and Lord Seb Coe.”
Rudisha has run six of the eight fastest 800m times in history and for years looked almost invincible. But, for the first time, he admits he is struggling to come to grips with losing after his career-threatening injury. “Mentally I used to be a very strong,” he says. “I never wanted to lose. But the injury affected me. When I came back I lost a lot of races. And sometimes I would be a little bit reluctant in some races. Afterwards I’d look back and say to myself: ‘I don’t think I have done my best there.’”
Slowly, though, the magic returned. “In 2013 and 2014, when I had that pain in my knee, it was tough. I love running, but it is a short career. So no matter how hard it is, no matter how painful it is, I thought to myself: ‘If you love something you can do it.’ If it was not for the love of sport I would have struggled to come back.”
Rudisha hopes to be a role model for young Kenyans and notes with pride how kids chase after him shouting “Rudisha. Rudisha” while he is jogging around the hills of Iten.
“They are always there,” he says, smiling. “Even when we are doing track sessions they like making fun of me, saying things like: ‘You can’t beat us – we want to run against you.’ It is always fun and I love that.”
His deep enjoyment of running has now been passed to his seven-year-old daughter, Charin. “She used to say ‘No, don’t want anything to do with running. I don’t want to run like Daddy’. But now she loves it. When I am training at home we do some exercises and jog together.”
Rudisha’s father, Daniel, won a 4x400m silver medal at the 1968 Olympics. Could she be the third line of a Rudisha dynasty? “Well, she has good genes – I can say that,” he says, laughing. “But it is hard. Running is not only about talent and genetics. It is also about hard work and your spirits.”
There is nothing wrong with Rudisha on that front and, at 28, he has enough time on his side to compete at the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. “I would love to emulate Bolt and have three Olympic gold medals,” he says. “Wouldn’t that be fantastic?”
Brazil’s football federation said the striker Gabriel Jesus sustained a broken eye socket during the 1-0 loss to Argentina in a friendly.
The Manchester City player was taken off the field on a stretcher late in Friday’s game after being hit by an errant elbow during an aerial challenge with club team-mate Nicolás Otamendi.
Jesus was initially given the all-clear after precautionary tests but the CBF said on Saturday that, after a more detailed examination, a fracture was diagnosed in the bone that protects his left eye.
Brazil will not call up a replacement for Tuesday’s friendly with Australia, also in Melbourne.
Andy Lynch joins a select club on Sunday. The venerable Castleford prop, who retires at the end of this season, will become the seventh player in the Super League era to reach 500 club appearances and he is in esteemed company.
Lynch, who could yet finish his career with the record for Super League appearances, joins Kevin Sinfield, Jamie Peacock and Leon Pryce in one of the game’s most exclusive groups, yet there is one thing missing.
While Sinfield, Peacock and Pryce won championships aplenty during their illustrious careers, Super League glory has evaded Lynch, but, at the age of 38, his final season represents his best chance in years to win the title. Castleford are top of the table going into Sunday’s game with Warrington and are overwhelming favourites to reach Old Trafford in October. “To do it for my hometown club would be an incredible achievement for myself and for Castleford,” he said. “But we aren’t getting carried away. It’s good for the fans to be where we are but we’re taking things slowly – nothing is won at this time of the year.”
It is a commendable attitude, especially as the sense of excitement in Castleford, a town of 40,000 people, is palpable.
The club have waited their entire 91-year history to be crowned champions of England but under the commendable work of Daryl Powell that drought could end: a point not lost on Lynch, whose closest call to winning the title came when he watched from the stands as a Bradford player in 2005.
“I love this club and I will always be a Castleford fan,” he said. “Bringing a trophy home would just be a brilliant way to sign off on a career I have truly loved. To bring a trophy back to this club and this town would mean everything to me.”
While Cas attempt to remain four points clear at the top, Warrington, last year’s Grand Finalists, find themselves in the bottom four and face an unlikely battle against relegation in the Qualifiers. Lynch, however, is adamant the league leaders will not take their opponents lightly.
“We know Warrington will be tough. They’re due a good performance and this run they’re on can’t last for ever. But it’ll be a special day; just to be named among those players who’ve made 500 appearances is a great honour and something to look back on in years to come.”
Lynch’s career has lasted so long he spent his teenage years playing against Powell. If player and coach can bring the championship to Castleford it would be a fitting finale to a career that undoubtedly makes Lynch one of the finest of his era.
Tom Briscoe scored two tries to help Leeds come from behind and climb back up to third in the Super League table with a 18-16 victory at Wakefield.
The Rhinos, temporarily deposed by Hull’s win at Salford on Friday, conceded quick-fire scores to trail 10-0 after 11 minutes but ran in two tries either side of the half-time to claim their third win in four games.
Trinity responded with their third try with seven minutes left but it was too late to prevent the visitors’ third successive win at Belle Vue, now known as the Beaumont Legal Stadium.
The result brought to an end a run of six straight wins for a Trinity side that have impressed so many during the past two months. Yet Trinity took an early lead thanks to Mason Caton-Brown’s fifth try in three games and Kyle Wood’s dart over from 15 yards.
Stevie Ward replied for the Rhinos and Leeds were quickly in again as Callum Watkins put Briscoe over. Trinity held out to maintain their 10-8 advantage into the break.
Briscoe’s second try gave the Rhinos the lead for the first time and they extended their lead shortly afterwards thanks to Joel Moon. Ben Jones-Bishop replied for Wakefield but they could not find a winner.
Jake Mamo produced a man-of-the-match performance as Huddersfield Giants moved into the Super League top eight with a 56-12 win over Catalans Dragons in Perpignan.
Mamo scored four tries for the Giants, while Jermaine McGillvary and Danny Brough both crossed twice, and Aaron Murphy and Shannon Wakeman completed the scoring.
Catalans showed no sign of turning their form around –they have now won only one of their last eight matches and sit precariously in the bottom four. PA
Scotland helped their new coach, Gregor Townsend, get off to a perfect start by easing to a comprehensive victory over an inexperienced Italy side in the first Test of their tour.
Scotland made light of losing three experienced players to British & Irish Lions duty in New Zealand with the hooker, Ross Ford, leading the way with two tries after the break as Singapore hosted a tier one Test for the first time.
Townsend was delighted to get off to a winning start. “To win is important but as a coach we still have plenty to work on,” he said. “We came out with a win and that’s what we work for but there’s room for improvement next week and we are already thinking about how we can get better.”
Despite dominating for most of the opening half, Scotland were unable to shake off their stubborn opponents until they scored two brilliant quick-fire tries through their scrum-half, Ali Price, and winger Tim Visser shortly before the break.
“We believe the kind of open rugby we play, they are not used to playing with the speed of ball. So it was great to get those scores then,” Townsend said. “If we’d gone in at 3-3 they would have had a lot of confidence but the tries gave us a boost and really set us up for the second half. Italy are a tough opponent and the rugby they play takes a lot out of the forwards, but you have to keep working at it because there will be times in the game when opportunities will be made.”
Scotland made good on a pre-match promise of a fast start and forced Italy into desperate defending in the first five minutes through quick and expansive passing as they probed for an opening. Scotland’s ambition was soon rewarded when Finn Russell slotted over a penalty to open the scoring but Italy pegged them back almost immediately when Tommaso Allan kicked from long range after an infringement at a ruck.
Scotland were dominating possession but unable to capitalise on good field position due to poor offloads and a lack of discipline. Italy were content to soak up pressure and seek to trouble their opponents on the counterattack.
Italy, however, continued to give away penalties with Scotland persisting in opting for attacking set pieces and a couple of moments of brilliance in the final two minutes of the half enabled Scotland to pull clear.
Price scored the first try when he fooled the defence with a dummied pass and dived over in the corner. Visser then hauled down an exquisite chip-kick and stretched to touch down as he fell to the ground. Duncan Taylor added the conversion for a 15-3 half-time lead.
Scotland stormed out of the blocks after the break, immediately recording another seven points when Ford burrowed over from a driving maul and Russell added the extras.
Italy were looking ragged and after Dean Budd, making his debut, was sent to the sin-bin for persistent infringements Ford added his second try after a well-worked passing move as Scotland ran away with what had rapidly transformed into a one-sided contest.
Italy briefly stemmed the flow with an intercept try finished off by Michele Campagnaro in the 66th minute but their ill-discipline returned when the replacement back-rower Abraham Steyn was sent to the sin-bin for a dangerous tip-tackle.
Damian Hoyland capitalised on a man advantage by rounding off a sweeping move to touch down in the corner with five minutes remaining before Italy’s Angelo Esposito completed the scoring with a consolation try out wide.
“It was very humid but we thought it was going to be worse. Happy to play some good rugby in tough conditions,” the Scotland captain, John Barclay, said. “We scored some good tries, let in a couple, but we’re pleased as it was our first outing in a few weeks.”
Both sides will complete their tours with matches away to Australia and Fiji in the next two weeks.
Ireland made a blistering start to their summer tour with an emphatic 55-19 victory over the US Eagles at Red Bull Arena in New Jersey. Tries from Keith Earls (2), Jacob Stockdale, Niall Scannell, Kieran Marmion, Jack Conan, the debutant James Ryan, Luke McGrath and Simon Zebo did the damage, with the fly-half Joey Carbery adding four points from the boot. Garry Ringrose added a solitary conversion with Rory Scannell, on his Test debut, kicking four points.
The outclassed Eagles replied with tries from Nic Civetta, John Quill and Ryan Matyas with the former Connacht fly-half AJ MacGinty contributing four points from the kicking tee.
Joe Schmidt’s side had too much pace, power and precision for the Eagles, who are ranked 13 places below fourth-placed Ireland in the world rankings. That gap in class was blatantly apparent throughout a frantic first half with the visitors bagging five tries to establish a 29-7 half-time lead. Ireland added a further four tries after the break to seal a comfortable victory before they set off to Tokyo on Sunday for their two-Test series with 2019 World Cup pool opponents Japan.
Ross Cronjé scored a try on his debut as South Africa returned to form with a 37-14 victory over an under-strength France in the first test at Loftus Versfeld. The Springboks started nervously but scored four tries as centres Jesse Kriel and Jan Serfontein also crossed over, to go with a penalty try. France, who had made 10 changes from the side that played Wales in their final Six Nations match in March, were in the game until the final quarter as centre Henry Chavancy and replacement scrum-half Baptiste Serin crossed the line for the visitors.
There were green shoots of recovery for the Boks after their disastrous 2016 season in a game watched by just 29,313 fans. “I am really pleased, we are moving in the right direction,” the Springbok head coach, Allister Coetzee, said. “It’s step one of 13 games this season but our attack, defence and kicking game were all good.
“We are not there yet, we must acknowledge that the French played without a lot of their leading players and still put us under pressure at times.”
Israel Folau and Henry Speight each scored two tries as Australia opened their season with a dominant 37-14 win over a gallant Fiji in Melbourne.
Warren Gatland and his players insist there is still plenty more to come after the British & Irish Lions revitalised their New Zealand tour prospects with a hard-fought 12-3 victory over the previously unbeaten Crusaders. With the first Test looming on Saturday week, Gatland feels the outcome will give his squad belief that they can upset the All Blacks and take the three-Test series.
“The most important thing was the result,” said Gatland, admitting the last few days had been “very tough” following the team’s midweek defeat to the Blues in Auckland. “Tonight was another step up but there is still a lot to work on. This team was outstanding in training on Friday, the players looked sharp and I knew there would be a performance because they have had time to gel.
“The result was pretty important for us. There’s been a lot of criticism and people have written the tour off already after two games. That’s been challenging for all of us. We need to stay strong in the group and keep the faith. We’ve always known about the quality of the players we’ve got and I just keep repeating myself that with more time together we’ll be better.” Gatland then took a wry swipe at his critics: “I hope we didn’t disappoint any people tonight with the result.”
Gatland also revealed he is planning to invite the tour captain, Sam Warburton, to prove his fitness against the Highlanders in Dunedin on Tuesday, with the Wales flanker having been sidelined for the past week with a strained ankle. The Irish back-row forwards Sean O’Brien and Peter O’Mahony were both praised by the head coach, who also hailed the impact of his bench replacements.
The England lock George Kruis, meanwhile, has suggested the Lions could do a lot worse than adopt a similarly aggressive defensive gameplan against the All Blacks. “We talk about how we want to be a brutal pack, a set-piece dominant pack. I think today we showed good signs of that,” said the Saracen. “That was a big test for us. We knew it in the week and we trained hard for that. They average 37 points a game so to concede only three is huge for us. They have six internationals in that pack and we knew it would be a tasty game.
“ It got a little bit heated at times but we held our own and did a good job. We’re trying to come up with scenarios that on the pitch we can be unflappable. We’re taking steps in the right direction.”
The Crusaders’ coach, Scott Robertson, was not too impressed with the Lions’ attacking creativity – “It wasn’t a spectacle we’re normally used to but they got the job done” – and reckons his All Black counterpart, Steve Hansen, will find ways to sidestep the touring team’s committed defence.
“We thought they were going to play that way and we couldn’t negate that but Steve will do his homework,” said Robertson, hailing Owen Farrell as the man the All Blacks will particularly need to counter. “He’s world-class and can see both the game and the space. His skill execution of those flat kicks to the corner is something we need to look at.”
Alfie Hewett became the first British winner of the men’s wheelchair singles title at the French Open with a dramatic victory over the defending champion, Gustavo Fernández. The 19-year-old from Norwich lost the first eight games and saved two match points in the second-set tie-break before going on to win 0-6, 7-6 (11-9), 6-2.
“I played him a week and a half ago in another final and I was 6-0, 3-0 down, and when it went 6-0, 2-0 this time I was thinking: ‘Oh no, here we go again,’” Hewett said. “But I remembered coming back that time so I knew I could come back. When it got to that tie-break, it was very up and down, he had I don’t know how many match points, I had set points.
“Mentally that was a big positive for me to just keep in there and hold out. I felt good after I won that second set. I knew I needed to get off to a good start in the third and when that happened I just grew in confidence.”
Hewett showed his nerves in the first set, making far too many errors as his Argentinian opponent clinched the set in 17 minutes. The British player, ranked seventh, finally got on the board in the third game of the second set and it was nip and tuck after he fought back from 3-1 to make it 3-3. The tie-break proved to be the decisive moment, with Fernández, who beat Scotland’s Gordon Reid in last year’s final, unable to take either of his two chances.
Hewett carried his momentum into the third set to add his first grand slam singles title to double Paralympic silver from Rio last summer and a Wimbledon doubles title. There were a few tears but no great outpouring of emotion from Hewett who had a doubles final to come after with Reid. The British pair went on to lose against France’s Stéphane Houdet and Nicolas Peifer 6-4 6-3.
Celebrations on Saturday night will be limited to a pizza before he heads home to see his parents, brother and sister, who were following from the UK.
“I can’t imagine what they were feeling in that second set tie-break,” said Hewett. “I’ve always believed I can beat anyone on my day. Clay is one of my favourite surfaces. Norwich only has about three clay courts but there’s something about it I love.
“I had a good feeling about this week. This time last year I was outside the top 10, hadn’t really won anything. A year on I’ve got two silver medals, Wimbledon doubles champion and now singles grand slam at Roland Garros. I can’t believe it.”
The Cleveland Cavaliers are still the NBA’s current champion with essentially the same team from last year’s title and it was particularly cruel they had to spend three days at home enduring a debate about whether these Golden State Warriors are the greatest team ever. What happened Friday night with Cleveland’s 137-116 Game 4 trampling of the Warriors shouldn’t be a surprise.
Did everyone really think Golden State – as good as they have played – are that much better than the Cavs?
The Warriors might have two of the game’s three top players, but LeBron James is still the best of his generation. And though he tried to pretend late Friday night that he missed all the chatter of about Golden State’s historical brilliance, he certainly picked up enough to carry a grudge as big as the arena into Game 4.
“Some of the other guys heard it and told me that they wanted to celebrate on our floor once again and they wanted to spray champagne in our locker room,” said James, who seemed specific on details despite his protests that he wasn’t listening to the talk about Golden State’s dominance.
He even had an obvious culprit.
“I think it came from (Warriors forward) Draymond (Green),” James added.
The most honest words uttered so far in these finals came from Cavs guard Kyrie Irving who said: “We see everything, I’ll be sitting up here lying (if I said) we didn’t see it.”
If there is one truth about today’s NBA players it’s that they read and hear every word said about them. Players are constantly griping about seemingly innocuous lines from weeks-old stories or stray comments thrown out on radio shows. The idea they slip themselves into cocoons, blacking out a media world swirling around them, is a farce. What they don’t see on their computers or glimpse on television is fed to them by an armada of sycophants eager to deliver any news that might catch the player’s attention.
In other words, the Cavs – who still possess the most recent Larry O’Brien trophy – were well-aware that the Warriors have become the Showtime Lakers, Jordan Bulls and 1960s Celtics all in one. They also heard a lot of talk about how they were going to lose these finals in four games and that they were done as any real championship contender for the next few years.
When asked what part of the Warriors talk upset him most, Irving said:
“All of it.”
“It’s part of the game, I understand that,” he added. “But we knew what we were faced with, that’s what it was. But then you add, of course, some chatter out there and that adds some extra motivation. And you give us a day in between and we were ready to come out - especially me because that taste wouldn’t have been the same if we would have lost tonight and they would have celebrated on our home floor. So I’ll just leave it at that.”
The Warriors are a great team, they are probably the best team the league has seen in 20 years. They set the NBA record for regular-season wins last year and then got even better this year by adding Kevin Durant. Heading into Friday night, they had stormed through the playoffs with 15 straight victories, 30 wins in 31 overall, and it was plausible for people to wonder if they could become the first team to go 16-0 in a postseason.
They are all but certain to win these finals. While last year’s team blew a 3-1 lead to these same Cavaliers in a similar situation (with two of the next three games in Oakland), the fact Golden State won Wednesday’s Game 3 makes everything different. There is a big difference between going up 3-0 in a series as the Warriors did this year as opposed to losing Game 3 as they did last spring and having to fight back to go up 3-1. Golden State are too good to lose four straight to Cleveland. The Cavs aren’t strong enough defensively to stop this Warriors team. They have too many weapons.
But this expectation that Golden State were going to sweep Cleveland always seemed far-fetched. Remember, the Warriors – for all their dominance this spring – were down 25 points to San Antonio in Game 1 of the Western Conference finals and came back to win only after Spurs star Kawhi Leonard was knocked out of the series with a sprained ankle. Golden State probably would have won that series even if Leonard hadn’t been hurt, though it would have been more of a grind. And there wouldn’t have been any talk about the Warriors being the best team ever.
A lot went against the Warriors on Friday. The crowd was extra loud, there were several early fouls called on the Golden State players that seemed to upset them and the Cavs hit 53% of their three-point attempts. They even feared they had lost Green for Game 5 for a second straight year when he appeared to draw his second technical and an automatic ejection, but the officials later said they had given Green’s first technical on Friday to Warriors coach Steve Kerr. A huge break for Golden State.
But Game 4 was about the league’s current champion refusing to cede historic greatness to a team they beat last spring.
“They were aggressive, you have to give them some credit,” said Green, who nonetheless still complained that so many Warriors were in early foul trouble that they couldn’t be as aggressive as they wanted.
There’s still some pride in Cleveland.
Still not very pretty, but mightily effective against Super Rugby’s only unbeaten team this year – and as Warren Gatland said: “We needed that, didn’t we?” He has repeatedly claimed that only the Test series matters, but while there was palpable relief on his face after the criticism that followed the Blues defeat, you get the feeling he had targeted this match as the opportunity for the Lions to announce their arrival. Certainly they had a far more cohesive gameplan – with aggressive, suffocating defence at its heart – and his side were far more composed, finishing aside. Mako Vunipola’s apparent ambivalence towards the haka summed up the Lions’ refusal to be cowed.
Conor Murray and Owen Farrell dovetailed at half-back as well as Gatland and his coaches could have wished. Farrell scored all the points and his kicking from hand was superb. One effort stood out in particular, pegging the Crusaders back in their right corner, and Murray was equally effective with the boot. The Lions were deep in their own 22 at one stage in the second half and two box-kicks later – the second a beauty – and the Crusaders had a lineout near their own line. The All Blacks will ruthlessly punish aimless kicking, but it can be a powerful weapon for the Lions when they are on the money.
If there is one man who perhaps deserves more plaudits than Owen Farrell, it is his dad, Andy, who addressed the squad after the Blues defeat to lament their ill-discipline. Against the Crusaders, they conceded seven penalties – compared with 13 last Wednesday – and their ferocious line speed ensured their hosts could not get the ball wide as much as they would have hoped. Vunipola and George Kruis were excellent, but, more importantly, the pack, as a unit, was defensively superb. On the odd occasion the Crusaders broke through, the Lions scrambled well, and the set-piece was largely on top against a number of All Blacks forwards, who seemed to struggle with Mathieu Raynal’s officiating.
It is undoubtedly encouraging that the Lions created far more opportunities than in their two previous matches, but it is still a concern that they are not taking them; it is now two tries in 240 minutes. Early on, Jonathan Davies had the chance to put George North clear on the right, and Stuart Hogg might have released Liam Williams on the left. In the second half, a better pass from the otherwise impressive Ben Te’o would have put Williams away on the left, while CJ Stander’s knock-on after Anthony Watson’s break was horrible. Their opponents deserve plenty of credit for their last line of defence, but while it worked against the Crusaders, the Lions – to paraphrase Sean Connery – will not beat the All Blacks by bringing penalties to a try fight.
Gatland has been lukewarm to the idea of playing Jonathan Sexton and Farrell together, but with the Ireland fly-half finding his best form from the bench, we may well see them paired together against the Maori All Blacks next Saturday. With Te’o also on the pitch, interchanging with Farrell, it made for a robust midfield and the Lions benefited from having two playmakers. Indeed, their ability to adapt after losing Davies and Hogg in the first half was impressive, and the back-line that ended the match may well start the first Test. It would be bold to start Watson at full-back, but the others now have it all to do against the Highlanders on Tuesday if they are to make the Test XV.
For much of this season, Dustin Johnson’s dominance was such that the Masters and US Open looked like a race for second. If the world No1’s nonparticipation at Augusta was the result of a freak domestic accident, recent returns of 12th, 13th and a missed cut means suddenly Johnson does not seem quite so imperious.
While he will understandably have a successful defence of the US Open from Thursday as prime motivation, the other leading lights have been afforded hope at Erin Hills in Wisconsin. In a nod towards the past three champions, Johnson will have Jordan Spieth and Martin Kaymer for company in rounds one and two.
Unlike Johnson and the vast majority of the field, Spieth has playing experience of the course – from the US Amateur Championship.
“I know nothing about it,” said Johnson. “Before I injured myself, I was playing really well. Everything was just really solid. But it’s getting back to where I feel like where I’m getting a lot more comfortable and a lot more confident in the game. I feel like the game, as far as from last year to this year, is not really much different.”
Fascination elsewhere will surround how Rory McIlroy fares at a course that may well suit his game but who is returning from an enforced break after the recurrence of a rib problem. McIlroy is one of precious few players in recent times to destroy a US Open venue – but this tends to be the most attritional major of them all.
Erin Hills will be subject to intense scrutiny, as will those who preside over the second major of the year. It is a new venue for the championship, which need not be a remarkable factor but the criticism of Chambers Bay in 2015, added to the rules fiasco that overshadowed Johnson’s success last year, means the United States Golf Association is in need of positive publicity.
“They’ve taken criticism for the last two years, I’m sure they’re not liking it,” said Adam Scott, the 2013 Masters champion. “They’re going to have to try to run a really good event. The ball is in their court; they control it all. Hopefully, they get it right this time, just from a playability standpoint. Let’s just have something that’s a challenge and interesting, not just playing brutal golf.”
The early indications are not particularly good; the USGA has published a supposedly full tournament draw that includes a batch of to-be-decided player times. Phil Mickelson has been included despite saying he will attend his daughter’s high school graduation in San Diego on Thursday lunchtime. Handily, Mickelson has been given an afternoon slot for round one; his participation would become feasible in the event of a lengthy weather delay.
Mike Davis, the USGA’s executive director, denies the widespread theory that manufactured scoring is high on his organisation’s agenda. “We don’t even talk about it,” he said. “What we do talk about is making sure we can adjust the course to, say, if there’s soft conditions; maybe we tuck a hole location a little bit more versus if we get real firm conditions and it gets windy.
“We’re then sitting there talking among ourselves saying how do we tone this thing down, how do we slow the greens, get some more water on them, whatever the case may be. It really isn’t about the score, it’s about just setting the course up properly.”
Jeonju is eight time zones away from Cobham and when Dominic Solanke broke through the middle before cracking his second goal past the Italy goalkeeper, Andrea Zaccagno, on Thursday his former place of employment could hardly have seemed at a further remove. Solanke ended up sitting out this season at Chelsea after talks over a new contract broke down, early hopes of challenging for a first-team place fizzling into a limbo of training sessions and a handful of under-23 fixtures as it became clear he would not be considered for selection.
A move to Liverpool was finalised last month; he had been in danger of fading from view but now he will lead the line in England’s Under-20 World Cup final against Venezuela on Sunday as they seek an achievement that has no parallel in this country in the past half-century.
Solanke has learned the virtues of perseverance and there may be those inside Chelsea’s set-up who wonder whether the club should have stuck things out a little longer themselves. He joined the club at the age of eight and with starring roles in FA Youth Cup and Uefa Youth League titles behind him – not to mention the near-obligatory season on loan at Vitesse Arnhem – his trajectory appeared set.
It is rarely that simple for a 19-year-old attempting to break through at Stamford Bridge though and Solanke is hardly the first to seek an alternative path. Liverpool will be a fresh start with, should all go to plan, a clearer route by which to make up for lost time.
Give or take the finer details, Solanke’s was a depressingly familiar situation among English players of a similar age. Perhaps that will change if the Under-20s win their first final at this tournament and there is a sense that the current crop have a momentum that previous generations found hard to muster.
“We knew that we’ve got a winning bunch of players and we’ve got to repeat that,” Solanke said after that 3-1 semi-final win over Italy, referencing the Uefa Under-17 Championship title the core of the squad won together in 2014.
Solanke scored England’s goal in the final against Holland, which was decided on penalties; it appears not to have been a flash in the pan and when the players return for pre-season with their clubs – all bar four in the top flight – scrutiny over their use and treatment can be expected to intensify.
The cautious conclusion in Solanke’s case is that, whether or not England win the trophy and regardless of whether he scores the two goals that would almost certainly win the golden boot award outright, the tools are in place for the Premier League.
He has won admiration from those who have seen him work up close – particularly the Under-20s manager, Paul Simpson – for the way he handled his exile at Chelsea and has grown into this World Cup after, perhaps understandably, looking a shade below his best in his first two games.
Style wise, Solanke is a rangy figure who, rather than appearing awkward, has the strength and awareness to threaten when playing up against defenders or in deeper areas. He needs to be playing regularly at a high level now; so, too, do team-mates such as the Everton forward Ademola Lookman and the Bournemouth midfielder Lewis Cook.
If a lack of success in high-pressure situations has contributed to English clubs’ caution towards using young players, will an unprecedented victory this summer bring a change in mindset?
Venezuela need to be negotiated first and that, despite the country’s lack of presence as a power at senior level, is far from assured.
England will have the benefit of freshness after their opponents required extra-time to win all three of their knock-out games, but they will have to be wary of the forward Adalberto Peñaranda – who is on Watford’s books and has trodden a familiar-looking path in spells at Granada and Udinese – as well as Sergio Córdova, whose four-goal tally equals that of Solanke.
They are highly dangerous players but England’s biggest challenge may lie more in the mind – a situation that their distance from home, with few fans and media scrambling to make the 11-hour flight at short notice, perhaps improves. Interest and pressure may be ramping up before a first World Cup final at any significant level since 1966, but they are conveniently isolated.
“Everyone’s going to be rooting for us back home so hopefully we can make them proud,” Solanke said. If England do, their centre-forward might consider that those months on the sidelines were eventually well worth it. Chelsea, on the other hand, may feel precisely the opposite is true for them.
Every successful Lions tour needs a rallying cry and “remember Christchurch” will now be the mantra of the 2017 expedition. New Zealanders, at the very least, will have to readjust their opinion of the supposed lightweights in their midst. The Lions gave easily their best performance so far, brushing aside disruptive backline injuries and local scepticism to confound those who felt they might not win another fixture on this trip.
More than that, they breathed fresh life into this Lions enterprise, which would have struggled to escape a litany of gloomy provincial defeats. Their collective intensity and controlled physicality was right up where it needed to be and the victory margin could have been considerably wider. Four penalties from Owen Farrell ultimately proved sufficient in a try-less contest but it was the forwards who laid the foundations. Against an opposing pack containing six All Blacks, there was a discernible edge lacking from the initial two matches in Whangarei and Auckland.
Maybe it would have emerged in the Tests regardless but the Lions management now have first-hand evidence that even New Zealand’s leading provincial side, top of the Super Rugby standings and averaging 37 points per game, can have their attacking brilliance squeezed out of them. Here, broadly speaking, is surely the blueprint of how the All Blacks can be upset.
Had the Lions not lost Stuart Hogg and Jonathan Davies to head injuries inside the first half-hour and not let three potential try-scoring chances slip away it might have been even more convincing. As it was Farrell and Conor Murray exerted impressive tactical control behind a pack that at last showed signs of living up to its advertised potential. George Kruis, Jamie George, Mako Vunipola, Peter O’Mahony and Sean O’Brien did not feature in everyone’s starting Test XV before the tour started, but along with Tadhg Furlong, Alun Wyn Jones and Taulupe Faletau they all enhanced their reputations in these parts.
It was a cracking encounter from start to finish, with the sides fully committed and pumped up on a cold evening. Two Farrell penalties gave the Lions an early advantage and their biggest early concern was the stray elbow from the otherwise excellent Murray that inadvertently struck his own full-back and forced the bloodied Hogg from the field.
The Lions’ backline resources were further stretched when Davies was led away for a head injury assessment at the request of medical staff. Jonathan Sexton came on at 10, Farrell switched to 12 and Watson came on at full-back, an illustration of the Lions’ range of options and the versatility that Warren Gatland has deliberately opted for.
Luckily their forwards already had the bit between their teeth with the home side, not helped by a slightly slippery, dew-laden ball, initially struggling to claim restarts and losing their first three lineouts. The Lions also had some joy in the scrums against an all-international front row, aside from one backpedalling loss of control that resulted in a mass scuffle and a penalty to the Crusaders, who had won all of their 17 games this year.
For a brief moment, as Murray burst away upfield with the French referee, Mathieu Raynal, playing advantage, it seemed as if the Lions might be looking at a hefty interval advantage but an attempted pass off the floor by Jones found a lurking Crusader instead of one of his own team-mates. The visitors were slightly fortunate to concede just three points from the resultant intense period of pressure close to their own line.
Their 9-3 half-time advantage, however, was thoroughly merited and would have been extended had Farrell been awarded a 40-metre penalty he felt had sailed over but was ruled out by the referee’s assistants.
The Lions wasted another points-scoring opportunity when a poor right to left pass from Ben Te’o made life unnecessarily hard for Liam Williams outside of him. CJ Stander also spilt a glorious chance after Watson had broken clear and split the defence wide open.
In the final analysis it mattered not, with a fourth Farrell penalty in the 70th minute giving New Zealanders further food for thought with the first Test at Eden Park a fortnight away.
What a contest that will be if the All Blacks can be hassled and harried defensively, given scant time to think and repeatedly turned by the pinpoint kicking of Murray and Farrell. Despite having not operated in tandem in training, the Sexton-Farrell axis at 10 and 12 went reasonably well without dispelling the sense Gatland will opt for a bigger ball-carrier at inside centre. Te’o, that one stray pass apart, had another good game and the increasingly confident Watson may also have played himself into the Test 23.
Among the other interesting conundrums is whether Sam Warburton, in line to return from a strained ankle against the Highlanders on Tuesday, has sufficient recent rugby in his legs to oust O’Brien. And who starts alongside Kruis, who must be a dead cert, in the second-row? Gatland still has some decisions to make but at least he now knows his best XV will be genuinely competitive.
A minor tremor measuring 4.2 on the Richter scale was felt in the stadium after the game; if the Lions keep improving, a major shock could yet await in the Test series.
Crusaders Dagg; Tamanivalu, Goodhue, Havili, Bridge (Bateman, 66); Mo’unga (Hunt, 74), Hall (Drummond, 62); Moody (Crockett, 51), Taylor (Funnell, 51), Franks (Alaalatoa, 51), Romano (Strange, 56), Whitelock (capt), Bedwell-Curtis (Brown, 62), Todd, Taufua Pen Mo’unga
British & Irish Lions Hogg (Watson, 20); North, Davies (Sexton, 29), Te’o, Williams; Farrell, Murray; Vunipola (McGrath, 62), George (Owens, 66), Furlong (Cole, 66), Jones (capt), Kruis (Itoje, 62), O’Mahony, O’Brien (Stander, 56), Faletau Pens Farrell 4
Referee Matheiu Raynal (Fr) Att 20,497 Match rating 8/10
For Gareth Southgate there was progress of sorts. It has taken some time to reach this stage but finally England have got to the point where the manager of the national team can go through an entire press conference without a single question about Wayne Rooney, former captain.
Seven months into the Southgate era a new team is taking shape minus the chap who has 119 caps and 53 goals for his country. England, as Southgate said, need different leaders now, even if he is still going to great efforts not to alienate Rooney completely by naming a permanent captain. Not yet, anyway.
For the time being it will be Harry Kane leading out the team at Hampden Park when England and Scotland lock horns in their World Cup qualifying group. Jordan Henderson, Gary Cahill and Joe Hart have all previously worn the armband under the new manager and, at some point, Southgate is going to have to be selfish and discount Rooney’s feelings and decide which of the candidates deserves the role on a full-time basis.
Equally it is not difficult to see what Southgate is trying to achieve if the allegation against England is that when it comes to the crunch they lack genuine leadership and players who can cope when the pressure is dangerously close to intolerable. Or as Steve Holland, England’s assistant manager, noted earlier this week about last summer’s Iceland debacle: “Maybe you were in the stadium, or watching it on holiday like me, looking round at the players thinking: ‘Bloody hell, they’ve gone. Where are the leaders? Where is the leadership?’ That is a pressure moment, so who is stepping forward? It looked to me like there was nobody.”
Kane, ironically, was one of the players who crumbled, booed by the team’s own supporters and warranting three out of ten in L’Equipe’s ratings the next day. One bad night, however, should not be held against him forever, especially when he has just won the Premier League’s golden boot, and Southgate should probably not be criticised for devoting so much attention to his mission of “developing more leaders within the group,” with the emphasis on the plural.
That process took in a overnight trip to Woodbury Common last weekend when the players began their preparations for the Scotland game by mucking in with the Royal Marines. Team-bonding, they call it, although Southgate was also reminded that, when Clive Woodward did the same with the England rugby team, one of the senior training instructors subsequently gave him a list of names as “men we wouldn’t go into battle with.”
The feedback for Southgate was not quite so brutal – “there was nobody they said shouldn’t be on the journey with us,” he clarified – and when it comes to Kane there was also the clear sense that the manager sees him as the kind of player who drives others on with his own ability.
“His goals record over the last three seasons speaks for itself. Even when we worked together at the under-21s, the quality of his finishing was clear. You see the level of finishing from the likes of [Robbie] Fowler, [Paul] Scholes and [Alan] Shearer, and you could see that level from Harry from the first day.There was the question of whether he could transfer that into matches because he wasn’t playing for Spurs at the time, but he’s done that now. He’s always had the focus about being the best possible player and they are the attributes when you look at the really top players.”
By Southgate’s own admission it is not an orthodox way for England teams to operate. That, however, does not make it wrong. “Eventually I have to decide: ‘OK, this is what we’re going to do,’” Southgate said. “But it is important to develop a group first. I want a group of leaders. Then, when we’ve got strength in various levels of leadership, everybody can see the importance of their role in the team.”
Plus Kane is another reminder, in a week when England have reached the final of the Under-20s’ World Cup, that England is capable of bringing through elite footballers. “Everybody knocks youth development,” Southgate said. “Our coaching gets knocked, our youth development gets knocked, our young players get knocked but why shouldn’t young English players be able to achieve?
“We have clubs searching the world to bring in young players, some of whom are outstanding but others who are maybe not as good as the players who are already there under the clubs’ noses. And if we’ve got a team in a World Cup final at that age group, why are we looking around the world?”
When a furious Jordan Pickford conceded a goal during a training exercise with England’s Under-21’s at St George’s Park this week, he whacked and burst one of the inflatable mannequins that had been put up to complicate the strikers’ route to goal. “I just don’t like conceding,” he explains with an endearing chuckle. There was an obvious quip that could have been made about being accustomed to it after a campaign behind the dummies in Sunderland’s defence but his club’s relegation is no light-hearted matter for the 23-year-old.
Pickford is still hurt by his hometown team’s fall from the Premier League even if things are looking up for him personally, with his acclaimed performances throughout the season likely to result in offers from several top-flight clubs waiting for him when he gets back from this month’s European Under-21 Championship, from which he is confident of returning as a winner.
“It’s hard to take that I got relegated with Sunderland and it’ll always be hard to take but I’m mentally strong,” says Pickford, who has been on the club’s books since he was eight. “[The impact of relegation] is massive – 40-odd people lost their jobs throughout the season and financially it’s not ideal for the whole club. For me, having grown up and been there since I was a kid, seeing people you’ve known for a long time losing their jobs, it’s not nice. But I feel like as a team and staff behind the scenes we did the best we could do and it was just unfortunate that we never got the results we needed.”
Of course it was more than misfortune that caused Sunderland to finish bottom of the table but the failure was certainly not the fault of Pickford, whose excellence earned him a place on the shortlist for the PFA young player of the year award. It is fair to say promoting Pickford to No1 rather than buying a more experienced goalkeeper when Sunderland’s first choice, Vito Mannone, was injured in August was one of the few decisions David Moyes got right during a miserable campaign.
“He has been great, to give me that experience,” says Pickford. “There was a lot of talk about certain keepers coming in, like Joe Hart, but the manager just brought in a No2/No3 [Mika, from Benfica] and gave me the opportunity. It was top drawer, really. I was a young lad thrown in at the deep end but I felt ready for it.”
It would have been better if we had stayed up; my heart is massive towards the club. It’s a hard one, really.
His description of how he became ready for it begins with a memory from his early childhood, when his brother Richard, six years his senior, would invite him to kickabouts with the instruction: “Get on the tarmac and dive about lad.” He went on to hone his talent in the more formal surrounds of Sunderland’s academy and then, after turning professional in 2011, spent loan stints at a variety of Football League clubs, most recently at Preston North End in the 2015-16 season, when he kept 14 clean sheets in 30 matches. “That was proving that I was good enough,” he says with the confidence he has gained from working his way up steadily.
Another sign of that confidence, and his readiness, was the way he hollered instructions at veteran defenders as soon as he was thrust into Sunderland’s first team. “Around the place I’m just myself really but as soon as you cross that white line I feel it’s my job and I’m here to do it and get the lads going,” he says. “You don’t do it nastily, you do it to help the lads in front of you and you know you’re doing it when they look round and give you the thumbs up or, after the game, they bring up something you’ve done well and that you’ve saved a goal by talking.”
Pickford is all about the bottom line. The saves he cherishes most are not the most acrobatic or difficult ones but the ones that matter most. “I go back to the [Peter] Schmeichel thing: you save it how you have to, any way that you can. Technique goes out the window sometimes.” So his favourite stop in his career was the close-range one he made to prevent Leicester City’s Wes Morgan from equalising in the sixth minute of stoppage time at the Stadium of Light in December. “It wasn’t an unbelievable save, it was just the timing of the game,” he says. “A match-winning save and we thought that win might have got us going.”
The win did not get Sunderland going – they were battered 3-0 by Swansea City a week later – but it lengthened Pickford’s list of admirers. Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea have been mentioned as potential destinations for him this summer. He admits to being torn about the possibility of having to choose between staying at his hometown club or heading back up to the Premier League, where his talent suggests he belongs. “Ideally it would have been better if we had stayed up; my heart is massive towards the club,” he says. “It’s a hard one, really. What will be will be.”
He has resolved not to think about it until after the European Championship. England kick off their campaign on Friday against the holders, Sweden, before completing their group fixtures against Slovakia and the hosts, Poland. “The Euros is massive for me and a lot of the other players. I don’t want to be getting distracted and I am really excited for it. We have got a chance to win it with the squad we have got. We have come this far, we have to get out of the group first but we are capable of doing that easily. We will see where we go from there.”
One warm evening in the summer of 1971 I got home from work with a copy of the London evening paper in my hand. Look, I told my girlfriend, it says here that the Lions are arriving at Heathrow tonight. Let’s go. So we climbed into the car and drove out on the M4 to the airport. We were not alone. The arrivals hall was already packed – but with people who had arrived from the opposite direction, which meant from Wales.
The singing had already begun. Cwm Rhondda, of course, and much else, while we waited. By the time the heroes had passed through the baggage hall and passport checks and started to emerge, people were standing on chairs and tables, creating an impromptu arena.
Looks of astonishment crossed the players’ faces as they saw the welcome that awaited them. One after another, each newly minted legend received his massive cheer. John Dawes, the captain. Gareth Edwards, the genius. Barry John, the king. Willie John McBride, the giant. Ian McLauchlan, the mighty mouse. Gerald Davies, the uncatchable. John Taylor, the tackler. JPR Williams, author of a crucial drop goal – the only one of his career – in the final match of the Test series. And so on. All of them cheered to the rafters – with the exception of David Duckham, the dashing blond England wing, who received a few good-natured Welsh boos for having displaced John Bevan, the 20-year-old Cardiff prodigy, in the last three Tests.
The Lions had beaten the All Blacks in a series for the first and, so far, the only time. They had been away for three months. Their coach returned with them, too. It was he who had persuaded McBride to change his mind about undertaking a fourth Lions tour and he who had coaxed a reluctant John – a native of the same mining village – into joining the party with the promise that he would not be subjected to an unduly rigorous training regime. It was he who bent the Lions’ rules to allow Davies to fly out and join the party three weeks late, after taking his Cambridge tripos exams.
That was Carwyn James, whose achievement in New Zealand remains unequalled by any of his successors. At 41, and taking a chunk of unpaid time off from his day job as teacher of Welsh and head of rugby and cricket at Llandovery College, James was already a man of many facets, some of them seemingly contradictory: a lover of literature and the theatre, a deacon at his village chapel, a 40-a-day cigarette smoker fond of wine and gin, a compelling columnist (for this newspaper) and broadcaster, a solitary man yet a lover of company and stories and singing. But, most of all, a rugby visionary beyond compare.
Although a confirmed Welsh nationalist who stood in the 1970 general election as a representative of Plaid Cymru, he viewed the task of coaching the Lions as one of reconciling the characteristics of the four nations. And he did it his way, a way that persuaded the members of his squad to lay down their deep-rooted national rivalries. Lasting friendships were formed that would have seemed impossible before the party assembled to listen to an introductory speech given by a coach known to the Welsh players for his prowess as a fly-half and later coach with Llanelli, but who was a complete unknown to others.
Years later he put it this way: “The very first thing I said to them was: ‘Look here, be your own man. I don’t want Irishmen to pretend to be English, or Englishmen to be Celts, or Scotsmen to be anything less than Scots. You each have an ultimate quality to give to the team and you must know that you are able to express yourself in your own special unique way, both on the field and off it.’”
“I shall always remember his gentleness,” McLauchlan once said. “In New Zealand he was dealing with a fairly rough bunch of blokes, but he never had to utter a harsh word and never had to raise his voice. Our success was entirely due to him.”
I thought of him this week when Eddie Jones, the England coach, spoke of making his players into “participants” rather than mere “recipients”, as if this were something new. As John Spencer, the England centre who was a member of the 1971 party, said in a TV programme on James several years ago: “One of his strengths was that he left a lot of the ideas to the members of the team.”
But Spencer also called him “a great organiser”, and he was meticulous in his preparation. An amateur in an amateur game, he brought a professional’s commitment to the task as he assembled dossiers on their opponents, visited Matt Busby to talk about Manchester United’s training methods and called on Eric Ashton at Wigan to see how rugby league’s champions went about their work.
It was amusing to hear Sean Fitzpatrick, speaking in the aftermath of the 2017 tourists’ defeat by the Auckland Blues, suggesting that their task against the Crusaders on Saturday will be easier because “there’ll be a lot more structure to the game” – implying that spontaneity is alien to the Lions’ culture. In 1971, James gave his players a structure within which their individual creativity could find its fullest expression.
When it was all over, the defeated captain paid him a high compliment: “He kept a unity that transferred itself to the pitch,” the great Colin Meads said. “He did have stars, but no one could have coached the stars he had like Carwyn did. He was judicious and scientific in his approach, in a way we hadn’t seen in New Zealand before.”
Honoured and fulfilled in many ways, rejected and isolated in others, he died of a heart attack in 1983, aged 53. Now the many elements of his complicated life are explored in great depth and with exemplary sensitivity by Alun Gibbard in a new biography titled Into the Wind, whose English-language edition is published on Friday.
Speaking of James’s love of the work of Federico García Lorca, Gibbard refers to the way in which the presence of the Spanish concept of duende within the poet’s work – “a heightened state of emotion, expression and authenticity” – found a resonance in the rugby coach’s sensibility. Duende might not be an ingredient of Warren Gatland’s formula for this year’s Lions but, as much as anything else, it was what earned the 1971 team their heroes’ welcome home.
• This article was amended on 13 June 2017. An earlier version said Carwyn James was 31 when he took the Lions to New Zealand in 1971. He was 41.
A rugby player has died in Sydney following an incident during a game on the city’s northern beaches.
Paramedics were called to Pittwater rugby park at around 1.45pm to treat the 25-year-old player.
The Warringah Rats rugby club wrote on its Twitter feed at around 3pm that “due to an incident involving and injury to a player during a game played earlier today, all games at Rat Park have been cancelled”.
Warringah Rugby Club advises that due to an incident involving an injury to a player during a game played earlier... https://t.co/0HQJeD4JCr
https://t.co/i9PZjYWVL5 Warringah Rats rugby player dies during match - https://t.co/bv8ekdRJTk https://t.co/dNk4R6n7Yr
Warringah Rugby Club told the the Daily Telegraph that the man was a fifth grade player. It was believed the incident happened in a game between Warringah and Randwick rugby clubs.
Junior rugby clubs expressed their condolences for the player who died in the game.
Our hearts are heavy at the news of the death of @Warringahrugby Player at Rat Park this afternoon. We send our love to Warringah Families pic.twitter.com/YiKZUociGT
I have always loved dancing. I used to be a regular clubber, going out with friends on the weekend and dancing the night away. Unfortunately, all my friends reached a certain age, settled down and stopped going out. About the same time, four years ago, my gym introduced a new workout class called Zumba. I’d never done anything like it before: it was a fitness class, but it also introduced me to a new style of dance. Now I drag myself out of bed every Sunday morning just for Zumba.
I’ve been at my gym for 10 years and have tried pretty much every class going – Pilates, body conditioning, legs, bums and tums – but Zumba is top of my list. It’s a 45-minute fitness class where the instructor stands at the front of the studio and we all face her, shadowing her steps and movements. It’s more like joining a party. It’s a solo activity: you all move around the studio in sync, doing different sequences of choreographed steps along to music.
A lot of the movements are recognisable from other dance forms, from salsa and flamenco to hip-hop and contemporary. Every three weeks or so, the instructor will mix it up and introduce new steps. As a regular, it’s enough time to practice and learn the sequences without getting bored. Sometimes, I’ll miss a step here or there, but it really doesn’t matter: the steps are repeated, so you join back in when you’re ready.
The music is as varied as the movement, with songs from different genres and from all over the world. Whatever the style, the choreography suits it brilliantly, so you really get into it. Some songs are slower, allowing you to take a bit of a breather, while others are fast, making for a high-intensity workout. It can be hard work physically, but you’re having so much fun, you don’t notice you’re burning calories. It’s the only group workout I’ve done where pretty much everyone has a smile on their face.
Favourite music to dance to? Latin American, such as reggaeton and salsa.
Post-Zumba recovery snack? I make protein shakes: peanut butter and banana is probably my favourite.
1 If you’re feeling self-conscious about joining a class, but want to give it a go, there are lots of YouTube videos and Zumba DVDs, which are helpful for learning the basics. Get some friends round and turn it into a party.
2 It doesn’t matter how fit you are, or whether you’ve got an injury or a disability, Zumba can be adapted by the instructor according to your individual needs.
3 The most important thing is to feel comfortable, so wear something tight or baggy, plain or sparkly. Trainers are also essential, because there’s lots of high-impact jumping and twisting.
4 The most basic step that’s used in a lot of tracks comes from salsa. Step forward with your right foot, back with your left, then bring your right foot back to meet your left one, in a one-two-three rhythm.
5 Nowadays, it’s highly likely that any local leisure centre will offer Zumba classes; there will probably be a regular class in a local community hall, too. Enter your postcode on the Zumba website to find the nearest one.
Nina Shadi, Zumba instructor at Fitness First
The Cleveland Cavaliers aren’t finished yet.
The defending NBA champions delivered a breathtaking shooting display and led from wire to wire to stave off elimination and deny the Golden State Warriors the first perfect postseason in league history with a 137-116 victory in Game 4 on Friday night at Quicken Loans Arena.
The Cavaliers poured in a record-breaking 24 three-pointers to break the NBA finals record set by the Warriors in Sunday’s Game 2. They were led by LeBron James, who finished with 31 points, 10 rebounds and 11 assists for his ninth triple-double in NBA finals history, surpassing Magic Johnson’s previous mark of eight. No other player has more than two.
“It’s going to be even tougher in Game 5, but we look forward to the challenge,” said James, who remains on pace to become the first player to average a triple-double over an entire finals. “We know it’s going to be very difficult, but if we can continue to not turn the ball over like we’ve done the last two games, if we can continue to defend and keep bodies on bodies, we give ourselves a good chance.”
Can't stop watching this. #NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/qfR8u6ApKe
Kevin Love finished with 23 points, including six three-pointers, while JR Smith chipped in 15.
History would suggest Cleveland’s win only delays the inevitable: no team in NBA history has ever rallied from a 3-0 deficit to win a playoff series in 126 previous tries. But no team had ever won an NBA finals from 3-1 down until the Cavaliers pulled it off last year. Now they’ll look to repeat the feat starting with Game 5 on Monday night in Oakland. “Obviously the job is still far from over,” said Kyrie Irving, who finished with a game-high 40 points. “This is a good start.”
The Cavaliers came out swinging in the opening minutes as Irving, Smith and Love drained long jumpers to open a 24-9 advantage, their largest lead of the series. That’s when Golden State inserted Andre Iguodala for Zaza Pachulia for one of their vaunted death lineups. The Warriors had settled down and slowly chipped away on 10 straight points from Durant that cut it to 31-25.
But the turnover-prone Warriors couldn’t keep pace with the torrid shooting of the Cavaliers, who led 49-33 after 12 minutes, setting an NBA finals record for points in a quarter despite missing eight of their free throws – against a team that’s as well-regarded defensively as any in the league.
“Just one of those games,” said Curry, who was held to 14 points on 4-of-13 shooting and went without a made basket until midway through the second quarter. “Not going to overreact to one. Obviously I can play better and want to play better and will play better.
“They played with their backs against the wall. They had a free swing at it, and it was one of those nights where we just didn’t have anything clicking.”
The Cavaliers extended their lead to 19 points early in the second, but Golden State cut it to 11 with James on the bench. Then James returned and within three minutes the hot-shooting Irving and Smith stretched Cleveland’s lead to 69-49, prompting a timeout from Golden State coach Steve Kerr that saw the Warriors hanging their heads as they retreated to the bench.
Cleveland led by as many as 22 points during a record-breaking first half that saw them connect on 60.9% of their shots including 13-for-22 from beyond the arc. When the dust cleared the Cavaliers led 86-68 and had set the all-time playoff record for points in a half.
It was often physical and fraught with hostility: including seven technical fouls, a flagrant and a heated exchange of words between James and Durant, who finished with a team-high 35 points. At one point it appeared Draymond Green had been ejected for picking up a second technical foul, but he was allowed to remain in the game when officials said the first had been called on Kerr and mistakenly recorded in the box score to the Warriors forward.
Golden State chipped away methodically during the third quarter, getting as close as 104-92 with 2:38 remaining. But Kyle Korver, Deron Williams and James added three-pointers before the end of the frame, stretching the lead back to 19 points and giving Cleveland the record before the fourth quarter had even started.
But the Warriors could not get within single digits of Cleveland throughout the second half, prompting renewed optimism amid the sellout crowd of 20,562, who chanted “Cavs in seven!” in the dying minutes.
“We have championship DNA as well,” said James, who surpassed Michael Jordan for No3 on the all-time finals scoring list. “We just kept our composure. We shared the ball, we moved the ball and defensively we were physical.”
The result cost the Warriors, winners of 30 of their last 31 games extending back to the regular season, a chance at the NBA’s first ever flawless playoff run. Instead, they’ll try to join the select list of one-loss champions: the 2001 Los Angeles Lakers (15-1) and 1983 Philadelphia 76ers (12-1).
“(16-0) would have mattered but that’s gone now,” said Klay Thompson, who finished with 13 points. “But 16-1 sounds pretty good.”
Trainer form is a tricky beast. When David Simcock saddled the second and third in the Lockinge three weeks ago it looked as if the Newmarket man had probably overcome his slow start to the season and was now worth following but, almost a month later, he is still struggling along on a low strike-rate.
Breton Rock, one of his Lockinge heroes, is the likely favourite for today’s John of Gaunt Stakes at Haydock and the veteran should be suited by the likely squelch underfoot. But it is not comfortable being on favourites from his yard in competitive races just now.
Mitchum Swagger (4.05) is an interesting alternative at 5-1 or so, with Ryan Moore a fascinating jockey booking. This one faded away in the Lockinge but stepping back a furlong and down in class might be what he needs and he has got his ground again. He came within a head of landing a Group Three at this track in September.
2.20 Haydock Wiliam Haggas’s Pennsylvania Dutch had only one run but it was over this course and distance that he made an impressive winning debut in September. His rating for this handicap looks pretty tasty on that evidence and his pedigree suggests a softer surface may help.
2.30 Newmarket A half-brother to the winner of seven handicaps, Six Strings got off the mark in an autumn maiden but better can be expected this year, following a gelding operation.
2.55 Haydock Aged five, Handsome Dude is holding his form a lot better this term than last, winning on the all-weather in February and being first home on the wrong side at Thirsk last month. Another soft surface may help him here, which is not necessarily true of the likely favourite, Snap Shots.
3.10 Chester A half-sister to a Middle Park winner, Khamaary could not have been more impressive on her handicap debut at Redcar. She has gone up a whopping 16lb but looks capable of shouldering that.
3.30 Haydock The James Fanshawe yard is just getting going and Return Ace, unexposed and with an encouraging pedigree, is attractive if she can return in the sort of form that saw her score at Newmarket on her first run of last year.
3.40 Newmarket Lurking at the bottom of the weights, Batts Rock is a potentially significant improver after only five starts and punters should not be put off by his seventh placing last time, when he travelled well until clipping a rival’s heels. On the promise he showed that day and when second at Ascot two weeks before he is of great interest.
Newmarket 1.25 Al Fujairah 1.55 Tangled 2.30 Six Strings 3.05 Al Qahwa 3.40 Batts Rock 4.15 Luqyaa 4.50 Marqoom 5.25 Firnas
Catterick 1.40 Villa Tora 2.15 Sir Geoffrey 2.50 Collodi 3.25 Sakhee’s Return 4.00 Art History 4.35 Gilmer 5.10 World Power
Haydock 1.45 High Waves 2.20 Pennsylvania Dutch 2.55 Handsome Dude 3.30 Return Ace 4.05 Mitchum Swagger 4.40 Arc Royal 5.15 Commodity
Chester 2.00 Awsaaf 2.35 Forever A Lady 3.10 Khamaary 3.45 Tallinski 4.20 St Mary’s 4.55 Lucky Beggar 5.30 Energia Fox
Beverley 2.05 Silken Moonlight 2.40 Cardsharp 3.15 Rebel Assault 3.50 Prying Pandora 4.25 Dream Free 5.00 Thornaby Nash (nb) 5.35 Pass The Cristal
Chepstow 5.40 Seneca Chief 6.10 Frostbite 6.45 Amenta 7.15 Alaadel 7.45 Satchville Flyer 8.15 Iniesta 8.45 Tsundoku
Stratford 6.00 Lieutenant Gruber 6.30 Dunraven Storm (nap) 7.00 Court Minstrel 7.30 Cobra De Mai 8.00 Optimistic Bias 8.30 Defining Year 9.00 No Hiding Place
If Eddie Jones, assessing the situation in the expected cauldron of 25,000 locals raging beneath the Andes, decides to empty his bench – and he usually does – England will blood more new caps in this first Test against Argentina than they have since 1947.
The coach has selected 11 fresh faces in his squad of 23. Seventy years ago, England fielded 14 because they had to. It was their first Test since the hiatus in international rugby that was the Second World War. This time the circumstances are only slightly less compelling. Jones has precious little choice with 30 players unavailable for this first Test, of two, in the city of San Juan, 1,000km inland from Buenos Aires, wedged up against the Andes and Chile beyond.
It is not the All Blacks at Eden Park, but Argentina in Argentina is about as intense a furnace in which to forge new players as Jones could have chosen. “It’s one of the greatest challenges in world rugby,” he said with the grin that assures he is delighted with the situation. “Everyone is nice to you and everyone smiles, ‘yes sir, what would you like sir?’ And then comes the game. Bang. It’s on. That’s the difference here.”
Tom Curry is the headline selection, the Sale flanker set to become England’s youngest debutant – at just shy of 19 – since Jonny Wilkinson was introduced in 1998, a couple of months before Curry was born. Wilkinson came on as a winger for the last few minutes of a comfortable win against Ireland; Curry is going to have to mix it from the start with a pack of Pumas. He’s England’s youngest starter for 90 years.
The reception on the pitch will be ferocious, as will the backdrop. The Estadio San Juan de Bicentenario is a sell-out, and the locals, whatever the sport, do not enter an arena anything less than well up for it. “When we come to these provinces the people are fanatics,” says Martin Landajo, the Argentina scrum-half. “The Argentinian crowd is like a football crowd. They will insult you, shout offensive things. It is not the same as England where you have the people sitting together and nothing happens. If you are a bit cheeky they may do something to you.”
Fortunately, Curry, whose identical twin, Ben, is also on tour, seems a well brought-up fellow. At the other end of the experience spectrum, Dylan Hartley, on 84 caps, is sharing with him. He describes Curry as a studious room-mate who does his stretches every day and rings his mum. Such conscientiousness will have to be enhanced on Saturday by something more elemental, but Jones and Hartley have great faith in their young charges.
The opposition are more of a known quantity than England’s thrown-together XV, which includes three other new caps in Harry Williams, Mark Wilson and Alex Lozowski. Another five have fewer than a dozen caps each. Argentina boast 528, spread more evenly throughout their XV than England’s 345, 215 of which are shared between Hartley, Danny Care and Mike Brown.
The Pumas’ squad is entirely taken from the Jaguares, Argentina’s sole team in Super Rugby. They are the only other international side whose selection policy is as strict as the All Blacks’, so some of their best players are ineligible. The Jaguares have graced the Super 18 with some fabulous play but a consistent winning formula remains elusive. In this, their second season, they won four of their first five matches, then lost six of the next seven.
For now, the nascent arrangement between the Jaguares and Pumas is clearly unsatisfactory, the two sides essentially the same, but it has introduced the players to the rigours of regular professionalism. “In the future it will help us,” says Landajo.
He expects the dynamic of international rugby to galvanise the Pumas. “Jaguares is more like a job; this is our passion.”
Jones considers this the perfect challenge by which to test his youngsters, even if he knows patience will be required. “You don’t expect them to be world beaters on their first start. It is a process. I remember giving Matt Giteau his debut [for Australia]. He was terrible. He dropped the first ball, threw two bounce passes and was absolute rubbish. Second Test he was a little bit better and then his career blossomed.”
Words of assurance, perhaps, for Lozowski, who starts at inside centre. But for Williams, who makes his debut via a colourful route that took in a degree in English and sports science, a healthy social life, a stint as a pro with Jersey before winding up as a Premiership champion with Exeter last month, and his fellow prop, Ellis Genge, on one cap, the proposition is more brutal.
Jones, enjoying a similarly healthy social life, took a trip to Argentina when he was a teenager himself in 1979. “I remember the Australian scrum getting pushed back. You could see the tractor marks in the ground. That was when the bajada was at its peak.”
The bajada is the scrummaging technique around which Argentina built their first great side in the 70s and 80s. It was belligerent, focused and unrelenting. Few could deal with it.
We live in more enlightened times now, wherein Pumas are seen running with the ball, but that primal threat remains integral to Argentinian rugby. For rugby boys, Argentina in Argentina is an initiation ceremony without equal. England’s mission is to emerge from Saturday’s inferno with a few more fully formed men.
Ola Toivonen took advantage of a Hugo Lloris error to score an injury-time winner from inside his own half as Sweden beat France in their World Cup qualifier in Stockholm.
The Toulouse midfielder collected a low clearance from Lloris close to the halfway line and clinically lifted the ball into the unguarded net to earn a 2-1 victory that leaves Sweden top of Group A in qualifying for next year’s World Cup in Russia.
France, who are second to Sweden on goal difference, took the lead through Olivier Giroud’s superb left-footed volley after 37 minutes, only for Jimmy Durmaz to equalise for Sweden just before half-time.
Holland moved to within three points of the top two with a 5-0 win over Luxembourg in Rotterdam. Arjen Robben and Wesley Sneijder gave the hosts a 2-0 lead at half-time, with Liverpool’s Gini Wijnaldum and Tottenham’s Vincent Janssen on target in the second half. Bulgaria lost ground in the race for top spot, falling to fourth in the group after losing 2-1 in Belarus.
In Group B Marc Rebes’ first-half header earned Andorra their first competitive victory since 2004 as they beat Hungary 1-0. The tiny nation’s first qualifying success since a 1-0 win over Macedonia 13 years ago was also a humiliating setback for the visitors, who topped their group at last summer’s European Championship but are now eight points adrift of second-placed Portugal.
Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice for the Euro 2016 winners as they won 3-0 in Latvia to keep up their pursuit of Group B leaders Switzerland. Goals from Arsenal’s Granit Xhaka and Stoke City’s Xherdan Shaqiri earned Switzerland a 2-0 win against the Faroe Islands which extends their 100% start in qualifying to six games.
In Group H Dries Mertens and Nacer Chadli were on target for Belgium as they won 2-0 in Estonia. Mertens opened the scoring after half an hour, turning the ball home after Mihkel Aksalu had spilled Kevin de Bruyne’s right-wing cross. The hosts had Artjom Dmitrijev sent off just before half-time with the score at 1-0. Elsewhere Gibraltar were denied a first-ever point in qualifying when Pieros Sotiriou scored the winner for Cyprus in the 87th minute.
Belgium now lead their group by four points from Greece, who drew 0-0 with Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Bosnia forward Edin Dzeko and his Roma team-mate Konstantinos Manolas were involved in an altercation after the final whistle following a bad-tempered contest in Zenica.
There have been some encouraging performances from Hull in the first half of this season but given the personnel Lee Radford had to make do without here, it is well within reason to suggest this was their performance of the campaign so far.
Victories at Salford are certainly not the formality they used to be. In the space of eight months, the Red Devils have become one of the league’s most impressive sides, and they sit second in the table on merit as the season passes the halfway stage.
But, for a Hull side without four members of last season’s Super League Dream Team and their star half-back Marc Sneyd, this was an ideal way to prepare for next weekend’s eagerly-awaited Challenge Cup quarter-final with the leaders, Castleford. “We didn’t fight as hard as we did last year in winning it to just give it away,” said the Hull coach Radford, whose side moved back into the top four following this encouraging victory.
It would be foolish though to suggest Salford, one of the league’s real surprise packages this season, are on the slide following back-to-back defeats for the first time in 2017. They too have a cup quarter-final next weekend – but Ian Watson’s side looked noticeably tired here.
Watson has been fortunate in that he has not had a plethora of injuries to contend with this term, but the effects of two double-header weekends in six weeks perhaps took their toll. “They taught us a bit of a lesson,” he lamented afterwards.
The damage was done by the visitors in the first half. They led 22-0 by the interval thanks to tries from Fetuli Talanoa, Danny Washbrook and two for the half-back Albert Kelly. The Australian’s arrival from cross-city rivals Hull KR sparked some debate at the end of last season, but with 17 tries in 16 games so far in a Hull shirt, he has proven an inspired signing.
“He’s a gambler but he’s talented,” Radford said of Kelly. Hull were able to rest him in the final quarter, and while Salford were much improved after the break, tries from Niall Evalds and Weller Hauraki were mere consolation, especially with the visitors responding via Carlos Tuimavave and Jamie Shaul to round off a performance that puts them in good shape for next weekend’s tie with the league leaders.
Salford: O’Brien; Bibby, Welham, Sa’u, Evalds; Lui, Dobson; Tasi, Brining, Hasson, Murdoch-Masila, Hauraki, Griffin. Interchange Kopczak, Krasniqi, Carney, Lannon. Tries Evaulds, Hauraki Goal Dobson
Hull: Shaul; Michaels, Fonua, Tuimavave, Talanoa; Kelly, Connor; Bowden, Washbrook, Watts, Manu, Turgut, Thompson. Interchange Fash, Matongo, Downs, Griffin. Tries Talanoa, Kelly 2, Washbrook, Tuimavave, Shaul. Goals Connor 5. Referee: B Thaler.
On the basis that if even Gordon Strachan had abandoned hope of Scotland defeating England then the fixture would be pointless, perhaps the manager’s faith is understandable. History, recent and distant, is hardly in Strachan’s favour: Scotland have beaten England six times in 50 years and taken seven points from five matches in the latest quest to end a miserable absence from major championships.
“I don’t think this is a free hit, I really don’t think it’s like that,” said Strachan. “I genuinely believe we can win the game, I really do. I’d be really disappointed if we didn’t get anything from the game.”
Pressed on what possible evidence Strachan had for this bullish approach, he referenced the 3-0 loss at Wembley in November. Scotland’s showing there has routinely been worthy of more praise than is valid –mainly from the manager.
“I take stuff from the last England game, where we would all agree that there was nothing happening and we were comfortable and doing a lot of things we had worked on,” Strachan explained. “We get a couple of chances, we don’t take them, we could have been in the lead. If big Grant Hanley was playing regularly, he would have put that header in the back of the net and then Gary Cahill loops one in.
“That’s how close we were, so I take that. Then I take the training, the enthusiasm of the training, and what the guys who have had a good season are bringing to the group, all that adds up to feeling good.”
If Scotland are to lose – and the manner of defeat may be more significant than whether it happens – further pressure will surround Strachan’s position. There is a genuine possibility this could be his last match in charge despite, contrary to reports this week, the Scottish Football Association having no shortlist of alternative candidates. Strachan desperately needs a marquee result such as victory over the Auld Enemy to back up regular claims of progress.
Strachan, as is typical, swatted aside any discussion of this game being crucial to his own situation. “I’m OK. I’m fine,” he said. “Funnily enough I want to win for everyone bar myself. So we’re looking after one another.”
England’s record, of an unbeaten qualifying run that stretches to 34 games, is not lost on the Scotland manager but does not seem to be a source of fear.
“I know for a fact that playing for England brings it own stresses and pressures,” he said. “That’s what they have to deal with and so far they have dealt with it well. I’m sure they would have liked to do better at tournaments but qualifying has been terrific. We said getting second would be fine and it’s still the target.”
Strachan is believed to have considered a three-man defence as the most legitimate means of handling England but may feel he lacks the resources to deploy that formation. His two most serious calls would appear to be in the wide right attacking position – where James Forrest and Ryan Fraser are candidates to play –and at centre-forward, with Leigh Griffiths and Chris Martin the options. Martin’s late goal against Slovenia in March kept alive faint hopes of Scotland featuring in next summer’s World Cup.
Craig Gordon, who will start in goal for the hosts, will not lack motivation for a potential meeting with Jermain Defoe. When at Sunderland in 2009, Gordon was involved in a clash with Defoe, then of Tottenham Hotspur, which resulted in the goalkeeper sustaining a broken arm.
“I wasn’t pleased with the challenge,” said Gordon. “It was a long time ago and these things happen in football. There is no way it will have any bearing on this match. I went out to dive at his feet. It was a challenge where he kicked my arm and broke it. He tried to make contact after the game but I wasn’t interested in speaking to him. He did try, to be fair to him.
“It had a lot of impact on the progress I was making in my career at that time. When something as bad as that happens to you in your career – and because of the problems I had after, re-breaking it, I’ve still got the metal work in there from the three operations I needed to fix it – then it’s obviously going to stick with you a bit. Let’s just hope he doesn’t score.”
One quirk of previous encounters may be on Strachan’s side: the presence of his opposite number, Gareth Southgate, in the England team for the visit of Scotland in 1999 was sufficient for Don Hutchison to be belatedly drafted into the visiting lineup at Wembley. Hutchison scored to secure Scotland a 1-0 win.
It is when Dele Alli pulls up his chair and starts to reminisce about his younger days that it becomes apparent, contrary to the image he may project, it has not been an entirely seamless rise to put him the position where he is today – a footballer of rare quality, England international, superstar in the making.
Two months after turning 21, he is thinking back to his days in the academy at Milton Keynes Dons, when he was trying to make a name for himself as a striker. Just not very successfully, as it turned out, judging by his memories of being removed from the team and told he might have to think again.
“I was on the bench a lot in the under-13s and then the manager [Dan Micciche] took the decision to pull me back and put me just in front of the defence. I wasn’t as physically strong as the other boys at the age. He said it was so I could get more space, so I didn’t have to worry about the physical battles and could just focus on my strengths, which at the time were getting on the ball and passing.”
The transition into a more attacking player came when he broke into the first team and, again, when he moved to Tottenham, where he recalls it feeling “strange to be playing so high up the pitch again” and the first call-up from England arrived after six Premier League appearances – a decision that prompted something close to ridicule at the time.
Roy Hodgson might not have got everything right as England manager, but nobody should question why he fast-tracked the player who is now the subject of rumoured interest from some of Europe’s superpowers and has been named the Professional Footballers’ Association young player of the year for the past two seasons. Yes, he was part of the England side that disintegrated against Iceland last summer but there can be no doubt he is one of the players Gareth Southgate wants to shape his team around. Alli will win his 18th cap when England renew acquaintances with Scotland at Hampden Park and it does not need long in his company to realise he is perfectly at ease with his elevated new status.
“I heard someone use this line about something else – that it’s unbelievable, yet believable at the same time. When it’s happening, there are moments when you can’t believe this is happening, but then I think: ‘I’ve worked so hard for so long – so it is believable.’ I wasn’t expecting it to happen so quickly but you can’t wait for time and when you get chucked in at the deep end you have to make sure you take the chance.”
He sounds supremely confident but grounded, too, smiling shyly when it is pointed out he has a better goals and assists record than Paul Scholes or Steven Gerrard at the same age and noting he has “a lot to achieve before I can start thinking I’m as good as them”. Later he chastises himself for starting last season slowly – a hangover, he says, from the club’s unsuccessful pursuit of Leicester City and the ordeal of Euro 2016, a tournament he would sooner forget.
“It wasn’t really until I come back here [with England], and Gareth coming in, that I’ve even talked about it,” he says of that Iceland game. “Until then you don’t really want to talk about it, or even think about it, because it’s such a hard thing. “It still makes your heart go and, even now, you get a lump in your throat but it’s important, as a team, that when something like that happens you need to go through it and see where we went wrong. I’m sure Gareth is aware of how hard it is to talk about it as players, with it being such a low point in our careers, but it’s important that we do go to those dark places.”
His analysis of last season is that Spurs were “phenomenal”, even if they do not have any silverware to show for it, but it is tempting to wonder what he makes of the idea of a move abroad. “People get too worried about where they are going to end up sometimes, then lose focus on the journey and don’t enjoy it. I’m signed to Tottenham and I’m enjoying it. “Who knows where I am going to end up, whether I stay at Tottenham for the rest of my career or if I do happen to go somewhere else. I’m sure if it happens, if I do go somewhere else, it will be at a time when I think that’s what’s needed. But I am just looking forward to enjoying the journey.”
He is keeping his options open, in other words, but there is still plenty of time for all that when, lest it be forgotten, he will be one of the younger players on the pitch at Hampden Park, a game that leads to the inevitable question about whether someone with his temperament can be trusted to keep control.
“I know there are a lot of mixed opinions, but that’s the player I am,” he says. “When I was younger I always used to get into tackles and if Dan could see me losing my temper he’d pull me off the pitch straight away and put me in the sin-bin. It’s something that has always been in my game and it’s not something I’m looking to change. “Maybe if I didn’t have that in my game I wouldn’t have achieved as much as I have done so far at this age. You don’t want players to think they can walk all over you … it’s important you stand your ground.”
That, however, does not mean he is oblivious to the fact he has crossed the line in the past. “There are things I regret, like the West Brom one,” he says, referring to the off-the-ball incident with Claudio Yacob that resulted in a retrospective three-match ban for violent conduct. “After that game I regretted it straight away. It was one of those moments I have learned from and I’ve not done anything like that again.
“There was also the challenge in the Europa League [a red-card tackle on Gent’s Brecht Dejaegere]. I know it looked really bad – and it was a really bad tackle – but I also know I would never go out to hurt someone. It was just a poorly timed tackle. “I apologised to the guy straight away. To be doing a challenge like that is horrible. Horrible for me as well, to think about it. I apologised and felt sorry and I’ve learnt from it; it was a mistake.”
Chris Coleman has admitted that the pain of losing 6-1 against Serbia five years ago will never leave him as the Wales manager returns to the country for a crucial World Cup qualifier in Belgrade with a warning for his players that they need to deal with a hostile atmosphere and those periods when their opponents are enjoying a “power play”.
Sitting third in Group D and trailing Serbia and the Republic of Ireland by four points with five matches remaining, Wales have little margin for error on Sunday night in Belgrade, where a defeat would leave their hopes of qualifying for next year’s World Cup finals in Russia hanging by a thread.
The task is made considerably harder because Coleman will be without Gareth Bale, his most influential player, through suspension as well as Neil Taylor, who is serving a two-match ban. To compound matters, Hal Robson-Kanu withdrew from the squad on Thursday and added his name to an injury list that includes James Collins, Andy King and Ben Woodburn, leaving Wales looking rather depleted, especially in attack.
Although Coleman refuses to be downbeat and remains sanguine about the team’s prospects in Belgrade and beyond, he is prepared for the fact that Serbia will evoke some painful memories. The Wales manager admitted that everything came flooding back when he paid a visit to the country in March.
“It was only a recce but I had butterflies in my stomach: ‘Here we go, I remember this place,’” Coleman said, recalling the chastening defeat in Novi Sad that led to many Wales supporters calling for his resignation. “I can’t say this is another game in the group because it’s not for more than one reason. And one of the reasons is that [game in 2012]. I suffered there, we suffered there – and it was my fault. That will never leave me. Nor should it. It will be like that if I went back to Belgrade with my wife for the weekend.
“But I can’t wait for this game. I know it’s going to be tough but I like meeting those challenges. With Balo in the team or not, I can’t guarantee a win. And we’re desperate for a win. But what we must do is perform. We have to stand up to them and not go away with our tails between our legs having missed the game, because that’s unacceptable. I won’t accept that, but I don’t expect it from these players. For some time now they’ve stepped up to the mark.”
Although Coleman admitted Wales would miss the experience and knowhow the absent senior players could have provided, he pointed to the presence of Ashley Williams, the captain he described as a “natural born leader”, to set an example to others that they must “do anything but turn away from the challenge”.
Coleman added: “You go to these places and it’s almost like there’s a stage in the game where there’s a power play. All of a sudden, from wherever it comes, the crowd start getting really rowdy, the opposition up the tempo for five or 10 minutes and they bombard you. You stand up to it or you duck it. There’s no third option.
“This will come in Belgrade, I know it will before we kick a ball, and that’s what we’ll talk about with our players. You need to answer all the questions physically, mentally and tactically. It’s international football, your country against their country. It’s not war but it’s what you stand up for and what they stand up for and bang, it comes together. Something’s got to give and it’s whoever’s capable or not of mentally standing up to it.”
Manchester United’s hopes of signing Álvaro Morata have received a significant boost after the striker told Real Madrid he would like a move to Old Trafford. However, negotiations between the clubs may not be straightforward because of friction relating to David de Gea.
United have frustrated Madrid’s attempts to sign the goalkeeper and fear the Spanish club will drive a hard bargain over Morata as a result. The De Gea issue has led to a strained relationship in the past, with a proposed move breaking down in 2015.
United are not willing to pay more than around £60m for Morata, who is optimistic a deal can be struck. The 24-year-old is due to go on honeymoon in just over a week and would like the transfer to be concluded before then.
Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s release by United was confirmed on Friday and José Mourinho wants to secure a replacement striker as swiftly as possible. The manager worked with Morata at Madrid and has made the Spain international his principal target. United had an opening offer of £52m turned down this week by Madrid, who held talks with Morata’s representative, Juanma López, on Friday.
López is understood to have informed Madrid’s general director, José Ángel Sánchez, that the player who scored 20 goals in all competitions this season has decided to leave in search of regular first-team football. Morata, who came through Madrid’s youth sides before being sold to Juventus in 2014, started 14 times in La Liga during this campaign having rejoined the club in the summer and suspects his opportunities at the Bernabéu could be even more limited next season.
Morata has been convinced by Mourinho that Old Trafford is the best place to restart his career. Interest from Chelsea has not been followed up and, although Milan have emerged as suitors, Morata is determined to play in the Premier League.
Mourinho gave Morata his first-team debut at Madrid in December 2010 but Morata left for Juventus having made 37 La Liga appearances in nearly four seasons. The release of Ibrahimovic followed a serious knee injury sustained by the 35-year-old in the Europa League semi-final tie against Anderlecht in April. He is expected to be out until early 2018 and will continue his rehabilitation at United.
United are also interested in Internazionale’s winger Ivan Perisic after lodging a €40m offer. Inter are holding out for €55m and, while negotiations continue, the Torino striker Andrea Belotti remains an option as Mourinho seeks to rebuild his attacking options. Reports in Portugal on Friday claimed that a £30m move for the Benfica defender Victor Lindelof could be back on.
The fight between Mercedes and Ferrari remains finely poised at the front of the Formula One grid as Canada hosts round seven of the season this weekend. Certainly there was little to choose between them in practice on Friday at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve with Lewis Hamilton edging out Sebastian Vettel in the morning and Kimi Raikkonen ahead of the British driver in the afternoon but, behind them the gulf to the midfield teams remains a chasm.
It is in danger of becoming even more pronounced. The Williams chief technical officer Paddy Lowe has warned that the spending differential to the top teams is greater than ever and the sport’s senior management addressed the issue in Canada. Williams are currently in sixth place in the constructors’ championship. They have a quick car but they and their contemporaries on the grid are still two seconds off the pace of the leaders, not a gap that can be bridged while the financial disparity remains so drastic.
“We face a gulf of spending that has probably never been seen before in the sport,” said Lowe, whose first stint with Williams concluded in 1992 with Nigel Mansell winning the title. “It was a great reward to us that we came and beat McLaren. We knew they had a lot more money than us and we did a better job than them. But the distortion we have today is on another level. Probably a factor of two-and-a-half times in expenditure between the leading teams and the first of the independents. That seems like a gulf that is difficult to cross, certainly in a sustained way.”
Estimated figures from 2016 back him up, with Williams spending £100m to the £265m of Mercedes, £225m of Ferrari and £215m of Red Bull. Lowe has first hand experience of some of this largesse, having been technical director at Mercedes between 2013 and 2016. “It is clear something has to be done about that,” he said.
Williams are celebrating their 40th anniversary this year and the team are still held in high regard. Thirty-thousand fans turned out last week to attend a day at Silverstone for a display of their cars. The circuit will host a similar event at the British Grand Prix and the fans’ reaction will doubtless be similarly enthusiastic. But they have not won a title since 1997 and, as things stand, are not in the mix to do so again. Chase Carey, the chief executive of the Formula One group, acknowledged the issue on Friday in Montreal and insisted it was being addressed. “There is no question right now that there is a disparity in spending that is quite wide,” he said. “There are amounts being spent at the top that even the teams that are spending it would recognise it is tough to rationalise. It creates issues because it undermines the competitive balance of the sport.”
He was backed by F1’s director of motorsports, Ross Brawn, who also agreed that changes would occur but within parameters. “We don’t want to dumb Formula One down,” he said. “We don’t want all the teams to be exactly the same, there should still be the Ferrari, the Mercedes, the Red Bulls, the teams you aspire to beat but we don’t want domination. We need an environment where if a team does a really good job it can do well. We don’t want a situation where financial power enables a team to get a dominant position, as has happened in the last few years.”
Rob Smedley, Williams’ head of vehicle performance, joined the team from Ferrari having been with the Scuderia just as Brawn and Jean Todt were helping Michael Schumacher to his fifth consecutive title in 2004. He believes the current structure of F1 is a direct consequence of that period noting the role Brawn, the poacher now turned gamekeeper, played.
“It is essential F1 should not just be how much you spend. Williams showed you didn’t have to be the richest team but that it’s become less about that was probably created by my old team when Ross and Jean built a team around finding marginal gains,” he said. “F1 should be about engineering excellence and brave drivers going toe to toe on the track.”
The task is a considerable one. Damon Hill won his title with Williams in 1996 and recognises how much the landscape of the sport has changed. “It is very difficult for a team like Williams to break the stranglehold that Ferrari and Mercedes have,” he said.
The perennial problem is one of coaxing agreement from teams with vested interests but Hill believes it will be dealt with because of commercial expediency. “F1 is as much about teams competing as it is about drivers,” he added. “[Owners] Liberty see this as entertainment and their buck comes from the racing and if there is no bang they don’t get people watching.”
The long, lank boy in lane three is rigid with nerves. Understandably, given he is 15 years old and racing in the World Junior Championships 200m final against athletes three years his senior. Technically he is a mess too. When he runs his neck is cocked back and tilted rightwards, as if he has slept awkwardly and missed an osteopath’s appointment. It barely matters. As he rounds the bend he suddenly goes supersonic to win in 20.61 sec.
In front of his home fans at the National Stadium in Kingston, Usain Bolt has just become the youngest junior world champion in history.
On Saturday night, 15 years on from that golden hello, Bolt returns to the same stadium for his farewell race in Jamaica. They are calling it “Salute to a Legend”, and for once the hyperbole is not misplaced. Over 30,000 will watch a star-studded undercard, including Britain’s double Olympic champion Mo Farah, the double Olympic 800m gold medallist David Rudisha, and the 400m world record holder Wayde van Niekerk, and then party long into the night with dancehall stars such as Beenie Man and Ding Dong. As always, though, Bolt will take centre stage.
But, as he admits, saying goodbye – and coming to terms with his own sporting mortality – is going to be “emotional”. “I live to make my country proud,” he adds. “When I was growing up my idols were Don Quarrie and Herb McKenley. I watched these guys dominating on the track, and working hard and I just wanted to be like them. I wanted to put my country on the map. Wherever I go in the world and see Jamaicans and they tell me I make them feel proud, and for me that is a big honour.”
In truth, Bolt’s 100m race at 10.10pm local time will be more of a celebration than a contest. His most dangerous rivals, including Olympic silver medallist Yohan Blake and the young South African sensation Akani Simbine, who has dipped under 10 seconds six times in 2017, have been planted in a much tougher 100m earlier in the evening. He will win. And win well.
He started at 15 on a winning note and he wants to leave the sport on a winning note
Even so, it will still serve as a useful barometer given that Bolt has not raced competitively since January and missed training for nearly three weeks following the death of his close friend, the British high jumper, Germaine Mason. With the world championships in London two months away, he needs to make a statement. As his father, Wellesley, puts it: “He started at 15 on a winning note and he wants to leave the sport on a winning note. So his main aim is to win here and be in London.”
It is hard to overstate the outpouring of love and pride Jamaicans have for Bolt. In dozens of conversations the same phrases are uttered like mantras, especially “People person” and “Makes our country proud.” There is also no doubt among Jamaicans that, despite the chequered history of the 100m and doping, Bolt has done everything the right way.
And at the Spartan Health Club where Bolt does regular cardio, fat-burning and step sessions (although he draws the line at the Friday evening burlesque class), his personal trainer, Steve Ming, insists that what you see is what you get. “The moment he walks in, he lights up the room,” says Ming, who has known Bolt since he was a scrawny teenager. “There’s a big rivalry inside the gym between Arsenal, Liverpool and Chelsea. We are the [Manchester] United crew and he’s a United supporter. So when Arsenal are losing he will walk in and start joking. He’s just a normal person.” The owner of the gym, Andro Henry, adds that Bolt’s other big passion is Japanese manga comics – especially Naruto and Bleach – and that Bolt “talks to everyone”.
The Jamaican minister of culture, gender, entertainment and sport, Olivia Grange, goes further still. She believes Bolt ranks alongside Bob Marley as the biggest star to ever come out of the country. “Anywhere around the world you go, if you say ‘Jamaica’ they say ‘Bob’ and ‘Bolt’,” she says. “We have a saying: ‘we’re little but we are tallawah’, which means we maybe small but we are awesome. It’s wonderful that Jamaica – which is such a small country – has such an awesome presence through its music and track and field.”
It helps, too, that Bolt is considered humble and willing to do so much for charity. As Andre Lowe, the sports editor of the Jamaica Gleaner newspaper, puts it: “He’s not your quintessential mega-rich, diva-type superstar. He loves kids and that’s why helping to improve the quality of life for Jamaican kids is such a big part of his charity efforts. There’s a joke – if you want to get Bolt to appear anywhere, tell him there will be kids there.”
But in Jamaica they know that the 6ft 5in star will cast a long shadow when he retires after London - especially given that he has contributed to 40% of the country’s medals at Olympic Games and world championships since 2008. True, there is a long treadmill of talent, but few dispute that freaks such as Bolt come along once in a generation. “We will certainly miss his dominance,” admits Lowe. “His international appeal, his personality … these are things that all added to brand Jamaica, these are all things that we will no longer be able to point to.”
Bolt, meanwhile, is yet to make any firm plans for retirement. His coach, Glen Mills, wants him to take over as coach of the Racers Club, but he has always shown a certain reluctance for early morning starts. And while the Jamaican government says he is pushing at an open door if he wants to go into politics, he insists that it is not for him and he “tries to stay as far as possible away from that.”
Even so, the sports minister is still hoping that Bolt will continue to do his bit for Jamaica in the future. “I wish he would change his mind,” she says, before adding, with a twinkle in her eye. “But if not, I look forward to him settling down and making a family with some little Bolts.”
A former member of the Newcastle United youth football system has appeared in court charged with 29 historical sex offences committed over the 25-year period from 1973 to 1998.
George Ormond, 61, also a coach at the Montagu and North Fenham boys football club during that period, appeared by videolink at North Tyneside magistrates court on Friday. He is charged with 28 offences of indecent assault committed on boys aged under and over 16, and one charge of buggery on a 15 year-old-boy, alleged to have been committed between 1982 and 1983. Ormond, wearing black steel-rimmed spectacles, with grey hair in a side parting, a greying beard and wearing an open-necked blue shirt, spoke at the five-minute hearing only to confirm his name, age and current address in Devon and to say that he understood the charges and conditions of the court hearing.
Of the charges 10 alleged victims of indecent assault were under 14 when the offences took place; the youngest was aged 11 at the time. Eight of the indecent assaults are alleged to have been committed on boys aged between 14 and 16; a further 10 charges relate to young men who were over 16 at the time. The charges collectively relate to alleged offences committed against 17 different victims over the 25-year period.
None of the victims can be named for legal reasons. The chair of the magistrates, Lillian Molloy, informed Ormond, who is on bail without conditions, that he will appear next on 7 July at Newcastle crown court.
In 1939 the Football League made the wearing of numbers on the backs of shirts mandatory, and in 1951 it officially allowed footballs, previously a shade of mud brown that given the state of many pitches at the time must have been extremely unhelpful, to be white. These novelties stand as two steps on football’s long journey to modernity though superficially they have little in common, separated as they were by 12 years and a world war. In fact, however, they were introduced in a single pioneering week during the pre-season of 1927, a time of wild experimentation which appears to have gone forgotten or unnoticed in the game’s many histories and timelines.
Herbert Chapman, who had already won two leagues titles and an FA Cup with Huddersfield Town and was in due course to repeat that feat at Arsenal, has been credited with playing a decisive role in both. In fact he seems to have been supportive but only tangentially involved, with credit for player numbers more rationally belonging with Chelsea’s manager, David Calderhead, his chairman, Claude Kirby, and later with Everton’s William Cuff, and for the white ball with a certain Mr EL Roberts of Kingsland, Shrewsbury.
At the end of July 1927 Roberts, a humble reader, wrote to the Athletic News to “draw the attention of the Football Association and all lovers of the game to the desirability of changing the colour of the football, which I have no doubt whatever will meet with universal approval”. A white ball, he suggested, would not only be more visible but also inherently more exciting. “The attraction would be to see a white globe travelling low and high,” he suggested, “with its twists and turns increasing our interest and excitement as it goes towards the goal.”
Ivan Sharpe, once of Derby County, Leeds United and Watford and a member of Britain’s gold medal-winning football team at the 1912 Olympics, was editing the paper at the time. So taken was he with this idea that in his next edition he not only published the letter in full, but also an editorial at the top of the front page. “A ball of white leather … has advantages for spectators and players,” it read. “On sunny days the players probably would find it more difficult to see than the ball now used, but as the bright days of the English winter, as in the modern summer, are comparatively few, more might be gained than lost. In the murky weather characteristic of the football season it is probable that the white ball would be a very welcome innovation to spectators. The idea seems fanciful, but is worthy of thought.”
This is where Chapman came in. He, along with several other managers, was sufficiently intrigued to test white balls in pre-season friendlies that summer. “We realise the possibilities of the suggestion appearing in the Athletic News,” he said, “and intend to explore them as fully as possible.” He did, however, admit that “I doubt it will ever be done in league matches”. “It certainly is a novel suggestion,” said the FA secretary, Frederick Wall, when challenged to declare it illegal. “There is nothing in the laws of the game to prevent a white ball being used, and as it is a practice game I personally see no objection.”
It wasn’t a completely novel idea. There are records of white-painted balls being used in games dating back to the end of the 19th century, and they were already in occasional use on the continent. Derby had come across one on a pre-season tour of the Netherlands in 1925: when dusk fell during a game against Ajax, making the brown ball hard to make out, a white replacement was thrown on to the field. The tourists kicked it back off again, refusing to play with “a lump of whitewash”. This time, however, the English game was a little more receptive. Only, however, a little.
Reading were among the first to try it, and no one there was particularly impressed. The referee, JV Pennington, said that “it is difficult to express a definite opinion after one trial” but also that “I am satisfied that it would severely handicap the goalkeeper on a bright day” and, puzzlingly, that “a ball painted white is dangerous to players heading it”. The Reading captain, Robert Eggo, sniffed: “I cannot see that a white ball is any advantage, and on a bright sunny day it might easily prove a distinct disadvantage.” Their manager, Andrew Wylie, declared the whole idea “a piece of nonsense – only a fad”.
The Guardian reported that of other trials that weekend, at Clapton Orient it “was a distinct disappointment, with the players complaining of finding difficulty in sighting it in the grey weather”, while at Huddersfield the white paint was swiftly rubbed off the ball, which “assumed the ordinary hue long before the end”, and at Blackpool players “were emphatic in expressing their dislike of the innovation”.
Arsenal played the first half of their game with a ball covered with shiny, enamel paint – the same stuff that was applied to golf balls – and the second half with one with a matt finish. The Athletic News’ correspondent “noticed particularly how the ball showed up against the dark background of the spectators standing on the popular terracing”, and declared “it was obvious that on a really dull day the white ball would be an enormous advantage from a spectators’ point of view”.
Those actually on the field, however, were less overwhelmed. The referee, WT Guttridge, described “one occasion when I entirely lost the ball as it flashed across the white crossbar”, and complained that “I found it even more difficult to follow when it travelled level with the players’ white knickers”. Billy Blyth, the Arsenal captain, said of the enamelled ball that “all the players agree it was impossible to control, slithering off the toe at all angles. So far as visibility was concerned, we could see the ball splendidly when it was on the ground, but it was a strain following its flight at a height.”
“We made the experiment as an experiment, and we are not going on with it,” declared Chapman. “I would not go so far as to say it was unsatisfactory, but it was not successful enough to justify any departure from tradition.”
The league season kicked off with balls unchanged and that, it seemed, was that. “The probabilities are that we have heard the last of the white football,” read an editorial in the Burnley News. “A proposal that seems to have had its origin in the craze for novelty, it only required the light of actual experience to demonstrate its futility. On Saturday the white ball was used on several grounds, and in all cases the experiment may be said to have been a complete failure. The experiment has met with a chorus of condemnation, and we may take it for granted that the white ball has been kicked for the last time.”
Calderhead had been one of the white ball’s vocal critics, perhaps because he was concentrating on alternative innovations, with his Chelsea side preparing to experiment for the first time with the use of numbered jerseys in a trial match the following Monday. Though it had been witnessed in a couple of amateur internationals at club level this was a true first, and though Calderhead declared it “certainly helpful, particularly from the spectator’s point of view” he said he was “not certain if it is worth putting it up to the Football Association council”.
This too had a hostile reception. Sidney King, manager of West Ham United, said numbers made “players look like horses and jockeys”, while Tottenham Hotspur’s Billy Minter said that “in my long experience of football, I have always found the crowd able to pick out any man after a glance at the programme”. Walter Hart, Birmingham president, declared it “hideous” and Wall, on behalf of the FA, declared the idea “very undesirable and unnecessary”. Chapman, a good friend of Calderhead’s, was a lone supportive voice. “I don’t see how the idea can be otherwise than useful,” he said, even if “the innovation would hardly be necessary”.
A year later both Chelsea and Arsenal wore numbers in their first league games of the season. That day the great football writer James Catton wrote an article in support of the novelty. “The objects of every club should be to play the game and give the greatest possible pleasure to those who throng the seats and terraces,” he wrote. “It is difficult to understand why some clubs are strongly objecting to a proposed change which is of great help to everybody on all occasions. The convenience of the public should be paramount.”
Not likely. Though Chelsea surveyed 700 fans after their game and received unanimous support for numbering, and the Guardian reported that “the spectators approved of a practice that should have become general years ago” because “the personality of a scoring forward in a ‘crush’ goal is not always revealed by the shape of his back”, the League immediately banned them. Chelsea, though, did not give up, and in 1929 wore numbers on a tour of Brazil, earning the nickname Los Numerados.
“I can see nothing whatever against the numbering of players and I hope to see this agreed at the annual League meeting,” their chairman, Claude Kirby, said in 1928. “League football has many new and powerful rivals to contend with, and we cannot afford to miss any opportunity of popularising it. I am convinced that thousands of casual spectators would become regular followers if they had this easy means of identifying players.”
His fellow chairmen were unmoved, but the idea never went away. There was some support at the FA, whose honorary treasurer, Arthur Kingscott, had seen numbers in use while acting as tour manager on a trip to Canada in 1926 and returned to declare that “at first I did not like the idea” but that “in the end I came to the conclusion that it was an excellent idea, and it enabled the crowd to follow closely the movement of every player”.
In January 1933 Tottenham were allowed to wear numbers for their FA Cup third-round match against Watford, which they won 7-1, and that March they were worn in a trial match between England’s first and second XIs at Fratton Park, leading to larger versions being used in the FA Cup final the following month between Everton, who wore 1-11 starting with the goalkeeper at No1 and ending with the outside-left, and Manchester City, who took 12-22 starting with their outside-left and ending with their goalkeeper, Len Langford, at No22.
The idea was debated and rejected by the Football League later that year (“What the advantage would be it is hard to conceive,” sniffed the Times) and the next time numbers were seen at Wembley was in 1939 (“It makes the game so much easier to follow that one wonders why players in League matches are not also allowed to be numbered,” enthused the Times), a couple of months before the league finally made them compulsory, the motion proposed by the Everton chairman, new league president and long-term numbering advocate, William Cuff, and carried by 24-20.
White balls would get their turn, though they had to wait a while. The late 1940s saw several colour-based oddities, with the winter of 1946-47, the snowiest of the 20th century, prompting Southend to paint their touchlines red and Reading to turn their goalposts blue, and soon alternatives to brown leather balls were being considered once again.
Of particular importance on the white ball’s road to acceptance was a televised match between England and Italy at White Hart Lane in 1949 when a white ball was used in fading light towards the end at the insistence of the Fifa president, Sir Stanley Rous, who felt that “against the background of high stands at White Hart Lane the ordinary ball becomes almost invisible in the air when the night is falling”.
After that game the league’s secretary, F Howarth, sniffed that “I do not think the ball offered many advantages over the ordinary one”, but it had been well received by the watching public and the FA resolved to keep experimenting: in February 1950 England B played Switzerland B at Hillsborough with a bright yellow ball being used in the first half, and a garish orange one in the second. The big push came the following year, the first to see top-level competitive floodlit football. It was under lights that the white ball really, in every sense, shone.
In 1951 the League permitted their use, but their introduction was haphazard. Initially most games started, according to tradition, with a brown ball, a white one being brought out only if it got a bit gloomy – the Guardian described the latter stages of one Chelsea game that year as being “like watching a ping-pong ball bobbing about in a darkened room”. But there was a catch. Back in 1927 one ball manufacturer was quoted as saying that it was, in his opinion, “practically impossible to make a white football”. By 1951 a solution had been found, which involved a different tanning process, the application of a layer of white paint, and then a layer of cellulose. The first layer made the ball white, the second protected the first from damage. It also, and quite accidentally, protected the ball from water: traditional versions might increase in weight by as much as 20% on a wet day, but white ones remained impervious. It was a discovery that was to change the game.
It certainly changed some games. In 1951, for example, an amateur international between England and Wales was tied at 1-1 with 15 minutes to play and the two teams battling to hoof a sodden leather ball around a muddy pitch, when a white ball was called for. England duly skipped to a 4-1 victory.
In 1952 the Sunderland Echo asserted that the ball particularly helped players who were “smaller in build and favouring a short-passing game”.
“Big players given an advantage on mud declare that this compensates them for the start and finish of the season when conditions favour smaller men,” it wrote. “They insist that the light ball, used as a counter to mud, penalises them.”
In 1953 the FA recommended that white balls should be used from the start or not at all, though this remained at the referee’s discretion. That November, Hungary showed quite how much it assisted more technical players when they put a white ball into the England net six times at Wembley.
The greatest possible advert for their use came with the arrival of another Hungarian team the following year, for what must surely rank among the most important friendlies in the history of the game, most probably at No1. The match between Wolverhampton Wanderers and Honved was to inspire L’Équipe to propose a European Cup, which started in 1955, and an eight-year-old George Best to become a Wolves fan, as an estimated 12 million people watched the BBC’s broadcast of the second half, a rare glimpse of televised football beyond the FA Cup final and occasional internationals.
With his team 2-0 down at the interval the Wolves manager, Stan Cullis, sent his groundsmen and apprentices (including a 15-year-old Ron Atkinson) out at half-time to drench the pitch with water, and with the resulting bog frustrating the swift-passing Hungarians his side utilised more direct tactics to battle back to a thrilling, dramatic 3-2 victory.
The 1958 World Cup was the first to utilise a white ball, and the battle was effectively over, the sympathies of supporters made crystal clear two years later when the later stages of Burnley’s title-clinching 2-1 win over Manchester City at Maine Road were soundtracked by both sides’ fans singing “white ball, white ball” as they strained to keep track of the brown one.
Back in 1927, the often outspoken and always readable Derby Telegraph columnist bylined An Outside Right took aim at footballing novelties. “I am among the large army of football enthusiasts who regard the attempt to introduce such innovations as white balls and identity numbers for players as the mere vapourings of people who are not happy unless they are being given something novel. There is nothing wrong with the game. Let us get on with it. Players ought to be numbered, should they? Here is a proposition put forward by someone who, like the sponsor of the white ball idea, ought to see an optician, and yet wishes to evade that expense by football helping him out.
“The one great objection to players being numbered is that spectators would take a superficial, rather than an intelligent, interest in the game. Under existing conditions spectators have to exert their powers of observation and intelligence in order to follow correctly the play and the players. Make this [too] easy for them and there will be no fun in it. Man is a hunter; half the fun is in the actual hunt. I am against anything that makes football too easy a spectacle to watch and follow. Football will soon go to the dogs if the football administrators give ear to the faddists.”
Over the 90 years since those words were written the football administrators haven’t just given ear to the faddists but eyes, nose and mouth as well. Heaven knows what he would have made of the modern game, but an Outside Right would surely admit that he got this call wrong.
Mark Sampson says he believes “the most together team will be the last to go home” as England Women begin a month‑long training camp before the European Championship this summer. With hopes high after England’s third-place finish at the 2015 World Cup in Canada, Sampson says players and staff are focused on being “the best on the planet” and have not discussed any outcome other than winning the trophy.
Speaking before preparations that include friendlies, the first of which is on Saturday away against Switzerland, and a warm-weather training camp in Spain, Sampson said: “I think that the key quality in this tournament will be togetherness. The most together team will definitely be the team that is last to go home.
“We’ll be working hard on the training pitch to make sure we’re fit, to make sure we understand what we’re trying to do and to make sure that whatever the opponent throws at us we’ve got the relevant weapons to find a way to win. Refusing to go home, find a way to win, and staying together.
“I believe this team has the ability to be the best in the world, 100%. There’s been nothing on my mind since the final whistle of the [World Cup] semi-final than how we’re going to win this event. I’ve never once discussed with the players about getting through the group, of getting to this stage or whatever. It’s about winning.
“That’s no guarantee we’ll win. – of course it’s not. We might lose our first two and be eliminated. But our focus is completely on doing everything we can to give us the best possible chance to win this event.”
Sampson earned criticism from inside the women’s game after he named his 23-strong squad three months before the tournament and before the Spring Series, the climactic event in a reshaped Women’s Super League. Yet the England manager defended his decision and said the announcement was a necessary part of the squad’s preparation.
“I’ve got to give huge credit to the players,” he said. “They were all made aware of the announcement and their confirmed places in the squad early and I think the work they have put in has been incredibly diligent and professional. I’ve been really impressed with their level of performance [in the Spring Series] but I’ve also been impressed by their work away from the field. This was always the intention, to do the work behind the scenes that makes the big difference when you’re put in front of all the cameras.
“We said we need to rip into each other and have a right good go at this Spring Series. We said we had to compete, to tackle, to fight, to push each other. I think we arrive now with the right balance between toughness and freshness.”
England are planning to stay to the end of a tournament being hosted by the Netherlands and which begins on 16 July. “We’re looking at it that we’re away from 5 June to 7 August which seems a really long time,” Sampson said. “So we try to have a good balance as to when we switch on. When we do switch on with this team we demand the highest of standards, work ethic, competitiveness, learning – all the key qualities to be the best on the planet. But when we switch off we want to have fun, we want to enjoy ourselves and we’ve got a great balance, I think.
“I’m excited by the programme we’ve got, but like anything it’s great to see it on paper, but it’s the people that make it come alive. That’s the staff, that’s the players, that have to make it come alive and make it the best possible preparation camp they’ve ever had.”

A top New Zealand official says Warren Gatland is among the potential candidates to succeed Steve Hansen as the All Blacks’ head coach, particularly if the British & Irish Lions achieve a stunning series win. New Zealand Rugby’s chief executive, Steve Tew, has also said the visitors remain a serious threat in the Test matches and, even if they lose heavily, that the future of Lions tours will not be endangered.
The experienced Tew, whose spell at the helm of NZR has coincided with the All Blacks winning back-to-back World Cups, has acknowledged that assistant, Ian Foster, is in pole position should Hansen confirm his intention to step down after the 2019 tournament in Japan. If New Zealand were to suffer an unscheduled wobble, however, Tew anticipates Gatland’s name entering the frame.
“Ian Foster is sitting there as a very strong candidate when Steve does finish but there’ll be others,” said Tew, suggesting that the overseas-based Gatland, Joe Schmidt and Vern Cotter would be potential alternatives. “Joe is sitting in Ireland and we’d like to have him back. Vern is coaching at a very high level and you wouldn’t rule Gatty out either.”
Asked whether Gatland’s stock would rise appreciably if the Lions won the Test series, Tew replied: “You’ll have to ask Warren what he wants to do next. We don’t know what Steve’s doing yet but what we will do is manage the transition very well. We’ll be sitting down later this year to work out the process.”
The notion of Gatland taking over from Hansen might sound improbable to many in New Zealand but there is considerable respect for his successful stints in charge of Wales, Wasps and the 2013 Lions in Australia. “I’m still of the view this is a very good Lions team and once they get together they’ll be very tough in this Test series,” said Tew.
“I think the physical attrition of the series is going to take its toll. One team will come through that better than the other.”
The commercial benefits to New Zealand Rugby of staging a Lions tour are similarly striking and, unsurprisingly, Tew wants his country to host another in 2029. “It’s unique and something that’s worth preserving. The current contract between the Lions and Sanzar (South African, New Zealand and Australian Rugby) runs out after this tournament and needs to be renegotiated but the commitment from all of us is that the Lions are locked into the calendar.”
More contentiously he has dismissed switching to a 16-year cycle to allow Argentina, now part of the Rugby Championship, to host the Lions before 2033 at the earliest. “We’re not currently anticipating Argentina coming into it because there’s a history of them touring to the three countries.”
World Rugby’s vice-chairman, Agustín Pichot, feels otherwise, with the possibility of arranging early tour games in North America clearly an option, but the three leading southern hemisphere unions are, to varying degrees, kept financially afloat by the Lions. “In 16 years time it might change but I think you’d struggle to run a Lions tour with a meaningful schedule in Argentina,” said Tew. “There’s no doubt our good friend Mr Pichot has his eyes on the Lions but I don’t think that would involve turning it into a 16-year cycle. That’s not on our radar.”
Nor, predictably, is backing a Super Rugby franchise in the Pacific Islands – “In the immediate future I can’t see how you could sustain a professional team in a Pacific Island unless, financially, there’s significant private intervention” – but as recently as the past week Tew has had discussions with South African officials about rugby’s future viability across the southern hemisphere. “It’s not as simple as saying they [South Africa] want to leave Sanzar. I’ve asked that question in the last week. The complication for the southern hemisphere is that we all live so far apart. It’s an enormous cost.
“One of the things we’ve learnt [from Super Rugby] is to be careful about expansion. The Aussies, the South Africans and to a degree the Japanese are learning that the hard way.”
Tew has reaffirmed the All Blacks will continue to play financial hardball when it comes to negotiating deals to play Tests in the northern hemisphere. Despite not having agreed to play England on tour this autumn, discussions with the RFU’s chief executive, Ian Ritchie, proved informative. “We know that when we play at Twickenham you can ratchet the turnstiles up. Ian and I had a good commercial conversation so I’ve now got a good idea what the real number looks like. We certainly had a conversation about a fee that was higher than we’d ever had before. That’ll sit in the system until the next time we come back and discuss it.”
One of the great contrasts of the Olympic Games is that while they bring out the best in athletes, they often bring out the worst in host cities. This past week offered a sharp reminder of this dynamic, with fresh revelations that the National Security Agency engaged in indiscriminate surveillance during the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. This was no mere quirk of history. The Olympics-induced state of exception has long afforded government authorities enormous leeway to break norms and bend laws.
If, as appears likely, Paris and Los Angeles are awarded the 2024 and 2028 Games respectively, the cities should bear in mind the events in Salt Lake City and not sleepwalk to the optimistic rhythms of the IOC. It’s time to face up to the past and make big asks for the future.
The NSA, according to former executive and whistleblower Thomas Drake, was not merely scooping up metadata during the Salt Lake City Games, alarming as even that would be. Drake said of the warrantless dragnet: “Virtually all electronic communication signals that went into or out of one of those designated areas were captured and stored by the NSA, including the contents of emails and text messages.” Drake’s input is part of a lawsuit brought in 2015 by former Salt Lake City mayor Rocky Anderson alleging an overreaching mass surveillance program that vacuumed up data on millions of innocent people.
Drake’s disclosure adds detail to what former NSA contractor Edward Snowden revealed in 2013, that according to government documents, the NSA met with higher-ups from “COMPANY E” ahead of the Games. As part of the President’s Surveillance Program, “NSA asked COMPANY E to provide call detail records in support of security for the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City.” The CEO of “COMPANY E,” which turned out to be Denver-based Qwest, fully cooperated. Another document from the Snowden surveillance archive makes it clear that Salt Lake City was no one-off: “NSA has had an active role in the Olympics since 1984 Los Angeles games, and has seen its involvement increase with the recent games in Atlanta, Sydney, and Salt Lake City.”
The lesson for everyday people in aspiring host cities is threefold. First, governments are perfectly willing to use the Games to test-drive new methods and technologies, publicly denying it all the while. Second, private companies are more than willing to go along for the ride. Finally, the truth can take years to unearth.
Since the 2002 Salt Lake City Games – the last time the US hosted the Olympics – the country has cartwheeled forward with intensified surveillance measures. This should fuel serious public concern in Los Angeles. But the only group raising the issue is NOlympics LA, led by activists from the Democratic Socialists of America and their coalition allies. The LA bidding team simply avoids the subject.
The truth is that the Olympics are at an inflection point. The promise of memorable athletic performances is no longer enough. The terrain around the Games has shifted mightily in the last decade, with activists, academics, and elected officials asking tough questions during the bid process, kneecapping bids with data and in some cases torpedoing them with public referenda. Exhibit A is Boston where activists so vociferously opposed the Games that the mayor refused to sign on the dotted line for cost overruns, thereby killing the bid. The 2024 Olympics field originally featured five full-fledged candidates before public pressure derailed bids in Hamburg, Rome, and Budapest, leaving only Los Angeles and Paris.
For too long the IOC’s response to criticism has been to ladle out fat dollops of slapdashery. It starts at the top with the IOC president, Thomas Bach. The Rio 2016 Olympics left a herd of white-elephant venues already crumbling into disrepair, disgruntled residents who had their homes demolished for the Games, and broken legacy promises, most notably related to water cleanup. Former Rio mayor Eduardo Paes, who was one of the Games’ biggest boosters, has been accused of accepting nearly $5m for shepherding Olympic contracts into particular palms. Yet, in the wake of the Games, Bach proclaimed the Rio Olympics “marvelous” and heralded their “tremendous legacy to the people of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil and South America.” He even claimed with a straight face that in Rio, “the financial model of the Olympic Games has really stood a stress test.”
Fast forward to today. In Los Angeles and Paris, the IOC has two relatively strong bids. Bach recently said “this is a position you like to be in.” But behind Bach’s stiff-lipped insistence, the smartest people in the IOC know that with the number of aspiring host cities dwindling the Olympics are in crisis. Even the Economist, the house journal for corporate capitalism, has admitted that the current dearth of prospective hosts indicates that “the business model for the Olympic Games is running out of puff.”
According to media reports, LA is engaged in backroom badinage with the IOC to squeeze out a few concessions, including financial aid to run its organizing committee for an additional four years. Last week, the LA mayor Eric Garcetti suggested that the IOC could also help finance metropolitan youth sports programs. If these are the best concessions that Los Angeles bid jockeys can wrest from the IOC, then they need to work on their game. This is a historic opportunity to extract fat satchels of cash from the IOC (and the group has plenty to spare) that could benefit everyday Angelenos. After all, LA has more people living in poverty than any other major US city and the highest number of chronically homeless people in the country. Last year, LA had the most officer-involved killings in the US. The Los Angeles County Jail is the biggest in the country, and is plagued by serious inmate abuse issues. Los Angeles need not squander this unique moment. Time to think big. The Olympics come with serious baggage, whether it’s blanket surveillance, public debt, or aggressive marginalization of the already marginalized. LA bidders have a rare chance to push back.
Apparently Liverpool are going to keep plugging away at this transfer negotiation lark until they crack it or land themselves a full-scale ban. But judging by the latest names being linked with them, the feast of new players that Jürgen Klopp was hoping to find waiting for him at Anfield is pie in the sky and he’s been told to make do with whatever he can find at the service station on the way home. His old muckers at Dortmumd might help him out by lending him the 19-year-old schemer Emre Mor for a season and there’s chat in France about grasping for Bordeaux’s sprightly forward Gaëtan Laborde. Mmmm...meh.
Klopp might also be waving goodbye to Divock Origi, whom Marseille are hoping will be fascinated by the prospect of forming a strikeforce with another of the club’s summer targets, the much-maligned Mario Balotelli.
Meanwhile, Chelsea are shopping at the top end and have their hearts set on Kylian Mbappé. One paper goes so far as to claim that Antonio Conte could try to charm the wonderboy in person after next week’s friendly between France and England. Sure, he might as well take him for a stroll down Blackpool promenade while he’s at it.
If that pair hook, it’ll be blues for Arsenal. And Gunners’ hearts will be properly shattered if Alexis Sánchez accepts the £350,000-per-week contract that Bayern Munich are reported to be pushing his way.
Meanwhile, Conte also wants to lure Idrissa Gueye to Stamford Bridge but Everton are refusing to play ball, which is a shame in a way, because it would be intriguing to see how opponents attempt to play ball against a midfield featuring both Gueye and N’Golo Kanté. Not a moment’s peace, that’s what there’d be.
Manchester United’s hopes of signing Torino’s Andrea Belotti have been complicated by the fact that Milan have put money on the table, and lots of it. And Milan are also keen on Porto’s André Silva, who Arsenal have been sizing up, too.
West Ham’s attempt to repair the damage they did to themselves last summer could begin with the capture of the mercurial Algerian winger Yacine Brahimi, who has reportedly been told by Porto that he can move on.
Kieran Gibbs have been given a similar message by Arsenal and now representatives from other clubs are fighting on his doorsteps like press photographers outside a polling station. Brighton’s man is understood to have thrown the first dig but Stoke’s chap got a good elbow in and Newcastle’s envoy won’t be shifted easily.
Representatives of Southampton, those most passionate defenders of transfer etiquette, are reported to be in the vicinity of the ex-Dortmund boss Thomas Tuchel even though Claude Puel hasn’t been officially sacked yet. Can only be a coincidence.
Saudi Arabia’s national football team have been criticised for failing to observe a minute’s silence held before Thursday’s match against Australia in Adelaide.
The Socceroos lined up in the centre of the pitch before the World Cup qualifier and held the brief silence as a tribute to the two Australians killed in the terrorist attack in London at the weekend. As they did so, the Saudi Arabia team continued jogging, passing the ball between each other and taking their positions on the field. Pictures from the match show a single Saudi player, Salman al-Faraj, appearing to stand facing the Australia team with his hands behind his back.
Adam Peacock, a presenter with Fox Sports Australia, said on Twitter the Asian Football Confederation has approved the minute’s silence against the wishes of travelling Saudi officials. He said the Football Federation of Australia “tried to reason” with the Saudis but were unable to persuade them to participate in the tribute.
Pre game minute silence:AFC approved it pre game.Travelling Saudi officials said no.FFA tried to reason, no avail and went ahead.
Sara Zelenak, 21, from Brisbane and the South Australian Kirsty Boden, 28, were killed in Saturday night’s terrorist attack. Zelenak was working in London as a nanny and Boden was a nurse, whose family said she died running “towards danger, in an effort to help people on the bridge”. Two other Australians were stabbed in the neck in the attack, which has been claimed by the terrorist group Islamic State.
The decision not to participate in the tribute was met with criticism on Twitter.
Would've been nicer if our opposition showed some respect & lined up on the centre circle during the minute's silence. Not hard. #AUSvKSA
Others defended the Saudi team, suggesting the minute’s silence was not a recognised way to show respect and condolences in the country’s culture or in Islam more broadly.
It's misunderstood, even if the victims were in Riyadh or Dubai, They will not stand for a minute's of silence
But that appeared to clash with other instances of Gulf countries holding minute’s silences, including to mark the death of the former Saudi King Abdullah.
1st match of the Silver Cup Zedan v UAE paying a respectful minute of silence for late King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia pic.twitter.com/NhObtDAggJ
A minute of silence for the passing of #SaudiArabia's King Abdullah before Handball World Championships match in Doha pic.twitter.com/cPelMMMGrR
Another image appeared to show a domestic Saudi team, al-Ahli Saudi FC, standing for a minute’s silence before a Qatar Airways Cup match against Barcelona in December 2016.
Australia went on to win the match 3-2, putting the country on track to qualify for the next World Cup in Russia in 2018.
On Friday the Saudi Arabian football federation made an “unreserved” apology.
“The players did not intend any disrespect to the memories of the victims or to cause upset to their families, friends or any individual affected by the atrocity,” it said in a statement.
“The Saudi Arabian Football Federation condemns all acts of terrorism and extremism and extends its sincerest condolences to the families of all the victims and to the government and people of the United Kingdom.”
AFL chief executive Gillon McLachlan has lamented being unable to ascertain what was injected into ex-Essendon player Nathan Lovett-Murray, who claims his child has been harmed by the club’s former supplements program.
Lovett-Murray reportedly claims his three-year-old daughter, who was conceived about a year after the 2012 supplements program ended, has a mysterious growth on her chest and behavioural issues. The 34-year-old is suing his former club over health fears for his daughter, News Corp Australia has reported.
“There’s no doubt in my mind that the injection program we were put through has had some impact on my daughter,” Lovett-Murray told News Corp.
Lovett-Murray last year served a year-long ban for his involvement in the doping program but his AFL career ended in 2012. League chief executive McLachlan said support was being offered to the former utility player but a lack of details clouded the matter.
“The AFL and the Essendon footy club will do everything we can to help Nathan and his family in what is clearly a very tough period,” McLachlan told 3AW on Friday. “Clearly, I think that’s been implicit in this is the uncertainty of not knowing what the players got. That’s always been one of the most challenging aspects of this.”
“In the broader sense, Nathan’s management is still negotiating with Essendon and I think he’s one of the last couple of people to not finalise their compensation claim. I’m sure that will get done. If there’s broader support or medical support we can provide we’ll do whatever we can.”
Lovett-Murray’s matter is the latest fallout from the supplements program, which has also contributed to mental health issues for former coach James Hird.
The AFL handed down a series of penalties in the aftermath, including kicking Essendon out of the 2013 finals, a $2-million fine and stripping of draft picks. Hird was suspended for 12 months and, in 2015, the Court of Arbitration for Sports ruled the 34 past and present Bombers players be banned for the 2016 season.

The night started with a catfish throw.
It ended with haymaker after haymaker – both literal and proverbial – from the ever resilient Pittsburgh Penguins.
The defending champions provided an emphatic and repeated reminder of what makes them such a difficult out in a 6-0 demolition of the Nashville Predators in Game 5 of the Stanley Cup final to take a three-games-to-two lead.
Pittsburgh will have a chance to become the first franchise in 19 years to win back to back Cups when the series shifts back to Nashville for Game 6 on Sunday night.
“Understand that we’re going to play a desperate team,” said Penguins captain Sidney Crosby after collecting three assists. “Nothing’s done yet and we’ve got a lot of work ahead of ourselves.”
So do the Predators, who can’t get back to Smashville fast enough.
Justin Schultz, Bryan Rust and Evgeni Malkin scored during a first-period barrage against Pekka Rinne that sent the Nashville goaltender to the bench for the rest of the night, all the good mojo he created during a pair of wins in Games 3 and 4 gone.
Conor Sheary, Phil Kessel – just as linemate Malkin predicted – and 35-year-old playoff newbie Ron Hainsey also scored for the Penguins. Crosby’s eventful night included becoming the franchise’s all-time leading scorer in the Stanley Cup final, a two-minute roughing penalty for trying to dribble Nashville defenseman PK Subban’s head on the ice near the end of the first period and an flip of a water bottle onto the ice during play.
“It’s just one of those things it slipped out of my hand,” Crosby said. “I had a gesture with my hand and before I knew it the thing was flying across the ice. I know you’re not allowed to do that, so I’m not going to start doing it in the Stanley Cup final.”
Matt Murray bounced back from so-so performances during Pittsburgh’s lost weekend in Nashville to make 24 stops while also benefiting from a dominant performance by the guys in front of him.
Penguins coach Mike Sullivan, as he has for each of the last two springs when his team finds itself in a tight spot, pushed all the right buttons again. He stuck with Murray, reunited Sheary with Crosby and Jake Guentzel, and stressed his team needed to play with urgency but not desperation after the Predators rallied to tie the series by outscoring the Penguins 9-2 during two wins in Nashville.
It took all of 91 seconds for Pittsburgh to get its swagger back.
Just 91 seconds after a Nashville fan flipped a catfish onto the PPG Paints Arena ice – a move that came shortly before a three-goal outburst by Nashville in Game 1 – Schultz powered home a slapshot to end an 0-for-15 power-play skid.
“We were on our toes tonight,” Schultz said. “We were really jumping and playing our game, playing fast. It all started with that start and got us going for the rest of the game.”
Rust made it 2-0 just 6:43 into the game with a nasty backhand flip over Rinne’s glove.
Then things got chippy (and a little weird) for the game’s best player. Crosby and Subban became tangled up behind the Nashville net late in the first period, with Crosby ended up on top of Subban. Crosby then started hitting Subban in the head repeatedly, eventually drawing a roughing penalty while Subban – who quipped that Crosby was complaining about Subban’s bad breath during a Game 3 exchange – went off for holding.
Malkin ripped a wrist shot over Rinne’s glove on the ensuing 4-on-4 to make it 3-0 with just 10 seconds left in the first. Rinne gave way to Juuse Saros at the start of the second period after stopping just six of nine shots, continuing his wildly uneven play. Rinne stopped 50 of 52 shots he faced back home in Games 3 and 4. He’s stopped just 34 of 45 in Pittsburgh during the series.
Saros hardly fared any better. Sheary took a pretty feed from Crosby and sent it by Saros 1:19 into the second to push Pittsburgh’s lead to four. Kessel ended a six-game goal drought 8:02 into the second. The score had been predicted by Malkin and it came just seconds after Crosby threw a water bottle onto the ice as the play went by Pittsburgh’s bench, a move he told referees was unintentional.
When Hainsey, who waited 907 regular-season games before reaching the playoffs for the first time this season, tapped in a pass from Malkin to make it 6-0, the stage was set for the Penguins to return to familiar territory.
The franchise has won all four of its Cups on the road. A shot at a fifth awaits Sunday, though it’ll hardly be easy.
The Predators are 9-1 at home in the playoffs, a place they will need to be a haven once again if they want to extend their improbable Cup run - and a flat-out odd final - back to Pittsburgh.
Crosby now has 20 career points in the Stanley Cup final, a new franchise record and one more than team owner Mario Lemieux. ... Crosby also moved into a tie with Denis Potvin for 19th on the all-time career playoff scoring list. ... The team that has won Game 5 in a 2-2 series has gone on to win the Cup 71 percent (17 of 24) of the time since 1939. ... The teams combined for 100 penalty minutes (58 for Nashville, 42 for Pittsburgh). ... Guentzel’s assist moved him into a tie with Dino Ciccarelli and Ville Leino for the most playoff points by a rookie in NHL history (21). ... Penguins F Nick Bonino missed his third straight game with a lower-body injury. ... Nashville F Colin Wilson made his series debut after missing the first four games with an undisclosed injury. Wilson skated on the fourth line with Frederick Gaudreau and Harry Zolnierczyk.
If a win can ever feel worrying, this may be the one.
Victory was crucial for the US’s prospects of automatic qualification for next year’s World Cup finals and duly obtained. Key job, done. But there was a certain slackness to the Americans that a superior side – say, Mexico – will surely exploit.
If the Hexagonal group’s bottom team was capable of exposing vulnerabilities in the Americans’ back line and midfield here in the Denver suburbs on Thursday, what might Mexico do to the US at home on Sunday?
A draw in Mexico would be an impressive result for the US in almost any conceivable context; on this evidence, that’s surely the right attitude to take into the fixture. No reason for hopes to be set too high.
Christian Pulisic was the hero - a sentence likely to become a well-worn sentiment in the months and years ahead. Ruthless and alert, the 18-year-old scored twice and provided a coolness in front of goal that more experienced team-mates lacked.
“He’s having fun,” Bruce Arena said, calling him “an exceptional talent.” He added: “I just think he’s a natural for the game, he sees the game very well and has good instincts on getting in good spots, especially his running off the ball’s exceptional.”
Arena said he felt frustrated at half time with the lack of sharpness at both ends, but overall pronounced himself content. “We played a solid 90 minutes,” he said. “We’ve started off 2017 in pretty good shape so I’m pleased at this time.”
Dennis Lawrence, the T&T head coach, felt his charges were unfortunate. “Individual errors is probably what cost us,” he said. “I felt all-in-all the boys probably didn’t deserve that.”
While any team can miss a multitude of chances, it was the number of good opportunities afforded to the away side that should be most worrisome ahead of the trip to Mexico City. And, curiously, Arena’s men had some of their worst defensive moments when leading 2-0 in the latter stages against a Trinidad & Tobago team that ought to have been demoralized and feeling the effects of the thin Colorado air.
Even if the US camp insisted in the build-up that the focus was squarely on this match, the structure of their international break demonstrated how seriously they are taking the trip to the Azteca. Like mountaineers heading to the pinnacle, the Americans played to a 1-1 draw in a friendly against Venezuela in Utah last Saturday; this stadium is 700ft higher, at 5,200 ft; the Azteca is at 7,200ft.
But the biggest altitude problem ahead of the game was the low position of the US in the standings: out of the rarefied air of the places ensuring automatic qualification for next year’s tournament in Russia and six points adrift of Mexico at the summit.
Three points against T&T was virtually essential – both to lessen the risk of missing the top three spots and facing a playoff against an Asian side, and to avoid being struck by self-doubt ahead of the toughest fixture of the campaign.
With few injury problems to worry about, Arena picked what looked like a strong and solid, low-risk line-up. John Brooks, who came off with a leg injury in the unedifying spectacle against Venezuela, returned to partner Geoff Cameron in central defense but did not convince.
Pulisic, the team’s most exciting player, had license to roam across the final third of the pitch. With Clint Dempsey also inclined to wander in search of the ball, it was important for the team’s shape that Jozy Altidore was a more robust and predictable spearhead up front.
The first chance of note came in the 15th minute as Dempsey found space on the edge of the area to unfurl a dipping shot that narrowly cleared the bar. The Seattle Sounders forward was chasing his 57th international strike, a number that would tie him with Landon Donovan at the top of the all-time US scoring chart. Not this time: he was substituted in the second half. Arena said he understood why Dempsey was visibly irked to be removed. “He’s got a really competitive edge to him,” he said.
After 25 minutes, Brooks tested Jan-Michael Williams from distance, and the T&T goalkeeper was called upon again seconds later to deny Altidore. Pulisic then ran down the left and lashed over. Amid the American pressure the visitors enjoyed a surprising amount of room on their left wing, though fashioned little when close to Tim Howard’s net.
Until the 32nd minute, that is, when Kenwyne Jones squandered an outstanding chance to head the visitors into the lead. With Howard flailing, the Atlanta United and former Sunderland striker – one of four MLS-attached players in the T&T starting XI – nodded the ball against the bar. Though Williams had to make five saves in the first half, the sides were level at the break.
American anxieties were soothed after 52 minutes with the opening goal. DeAndre Yedlin crossed low and Pulisic – operating outside the area for so much of this match – appeared inside the six-yard box, as if teleported, to slide the ball beyond Williams. Yet, in another sign that the home team was prone to lapses in concentration, T&T had the ball in Howard’s net almost immediately after the restart, but it was correctly ruled offside.
Two minutes after the hour, Pulisic finished a move that he started. Thanks to some incisive passing he was set clear on the right of the area and calmly slotted past the goalkeeper at his near post to make the game safe, though not exactly comfortable. While Arena did not get the assertive and cohesive team display he no doubt craved before Sunday, at least he could once again savor a fine performance from the teenager.
Fast graduating from starlet into star, the Borussia Dortmund tyro is not short of self-belief. “It’s gonna be a tough one down there in Mexico especially, but we really want some revenge on them [for their win last November],” Pulisic told FS1 post-match. “So we’re really confident going into that game,” he said with a nonchalant shrug. “We’re going to come out with a win there too.”
A legal challenge has been launched by Newcastle United over documents seized from the club by officials conducting a tax investigation.
A high court judge banned HM Revenue & Customs from examining, without the club’s consent, material taken in a raid carried out in April under search warrants issued by Leeds crown court.
Mr Justice Supperstone, sitting in London, said on Thursday that the ban would continue until resolution of the club’s application for a judicial review against HMRC. He directed that any material being retained by HMRC which is identified as attracting legal professional privilege must be returned to the club. He also directed that the legal action involving Newcastle, who have just secured promotion back to the Premier League, must return to court on 22 June. It is expected the club will then have to show it has an arguable case to take to a full judicial review hearing.
At the interim hearing on Thursday no details of the grounds of the challenge were revealed in court. During the day lawyers for the club did not respond to requests for further information about the case and HMRC lawyers said they could not provide any information.
Manchester United will not offer Zlatan Ibrahimovic a new deal when his current contract expires at the end of the month.
The 35-year-old had an option for a second season at United – following his influential first campaign in English football – but a cruciate ligament has finished his career at Old Trafford. The Swede will be 36 by the time he next plays, with the knee injury expected to keep the striker out until early 2018.
The Premier League’s retained list will be released on Friday and Ibrahimovic’s name is set to be one of the main talking points. The striker scored at Wembley in both United’s Community Shield and EFL Cup successes, as well as playing an important role in their triumphant Europa League campaign.
That competition has now witnessed his final appearance for United, after he sustained the ligament damage in April’s quarter-final second leg against Anderlecht. His agent, Mino Raiola, says Ibrahimovic is not short of offers. “Many clubs have asked for Zlatan,” Raiola said. “He can play two more years and will stay in Europe, 100%.”
Ibrahimovic’s release means a new No9 is high on United’s list of priorities this summer and a £60m offer for Álvaro Morata is expected to be submitted. José Mourinho has identified the 24-year-old as his primary attacking target after the France international Antoine Griezmann confirmed he will not be leaving Atlético Madrid. Negotiations with Real Madrid have taken place this week, with United’s first offer of €60m (£52m) turned down as the Champions League winners value him significantly higher at €90m.
Rory McIlroy has been grouped alongside another former world No1 in Jason Day and his Ryder Cup team-mate Justin Rose for the first two rounds of next week’s US Open.
McIlroy earlier this week confirmed his participation at Erin Hills after recovering from a stress fracture to a rib which forced him to withdraw from last month’s BMW PGA Championship at Wentworth.
The Northern Irishman claimed his first major victory in a wire-to-wire triumph at the 2011 US Open, defeating his nearest challenger Day by eight shots. Rose was the 2013 champion in Wisconsin. The trio will tee off on Thursday at 2.09pm local time (7.09pm BST).
Rose’s conqueror at the Masters, Sergio García, will tee off with Bubba Watson, the 2012 and 2014 champion at Augusta, and Adam Scott, who walked away with the green jacket four years ago, at 1.36pm. The pick of the morning groupings sees Dustin Johnson begin the defence of his title alongside his two predecessors, Jordan Spieth and Martin Kaymer. The world No1, who broke his major duck 12 months ago at Oakmont Country Club, will play alongside the man who pipped him to the title in a final-round showdown in 2015 and Germany’s 2014 winner.
Johnson is looking to become the first man to successfully defend his title since Curtis Strange in 1989 and clinch a first victory following a back injury which forced him to miss the Masters in April. The trio will commence their first round at 9.35am.
The English duo Lee Westwood and Ross Fisher and Northern Ireland’s Graeme McDowell go off at 8.02am while the Scottish pair Russell Knox and Martin Laird are in the next grouping setting off at 8.13am.
Almost a week on and England’s players are still piecing together the eccentricity of an end-of-season overnight stay on Woodbury Common mucking in with the Royal Marines. Harry Kane thrilled at the novelty of “putting up my own tent and sleeping in a sleeping bag”. Kieran Trippier, who can hardly have anticipated enduring the “sheep dip” or a four-mile early morning hike with 21kg on his back through a Devonian wilderness on his first call-up, admitted an initial sense of shock gave way to enjoyment. All spoke of admiration for their hosts and praised Gareth Southgate for thinking outside the box when it came to team bonding.
Yet it took the manager’s right-hand man to explain the true merit of a trip to the south-west which, like so much of the national team’s attempt at reinvention, was in effect born of memories of the feeble and high-profile capitulation to Iceland in Nice last summer. “It would be easy to assume: marines, army, run until you are sick, but that was actually the opposite of what it was all about,” said Steve Holland. “Gareth has identified issues we need to address and had come up with different ways to go through the process. Take leadership. There were various different exercises that weren’t physically challenging but did demand some to step forward, organise others and take responsibility. To lead.
“The guys were having to handle situations where there was pressure. They were out of their comfort zones, and they didn’t feel good about what they were being asked to do, even with limited physical risk. Standing knee high in water, having to pass through a tunnel full of water, not being able to see while in the tube before you reached the marine at the other end … personally, I didn’t fancy that for a second, but I pushed myself through, as did everybody. Now relate that back into football. There are moments on the pitch – and the Iceland game is everyone’s point of reference – where you have to react, when you’re one up and everything looks fine, then suddenly ‘bang, bang’, it’s 1-2.
The feedback Gareth’s had has been that, in some cases, the team’s ‘identity’ has been lacking
“Maybe you were in the stadium, or watching it on holiday like me, looking round at the players thinking: ‘Bloody hell, they’ve gone. Where are the leaders? Where is the leadership?’ That is a pressure moment, so who is stepping forward? It looked to me like there was nobody. Does what we did at the weekend solve that? Not in one hit, no. But having identified it, it is part of a process that hopefully, in the short term but also in the long term, will create a different mindset within the group that can help us. It is as simple as that.” The exorcism of that nightmare on the French Riviera is still continuing.
Scotland will test England’s progress in the ferocious din of Hampden Park on Saturday, with the group leaders charged with imposing themselves on their hosts. Coping with that level of expectation is part of the process. Roy Hodgson’s side were supposed to ease beyond Iceland, after all, and were ahead early on. Southgate and his staff have recognised that this young group’s potential will not be realised until hurdles such as these are vaulted with ease. “There is potential, yes, but there is also clearly some work to be done to get this group to where their maximum is,” said Holland. “If we can hit that then this team has a chance to win [tournaments]. I have no doubt, this team has a chance to win.
“Since coming in, Gareth has been very interactive in the way he has dealt with the players and what happened last summer: asking them what they think, not necessarily telling them what he thinks. It has been driven really by an ownership from the players. What did you recognise? What was right? What was wrong? How is it going to be different next time? What can we do to make that process different? The feedback Gareth’s had from players of the past and the present has been that, in some cases, the team’s identity has been lacking, whether that is tactical or philosophical. They want to get that back.”
The aim is to give the group some tactical flexibility, allowing them to switch from four at the back to three if required, as they have demonstrated under Southgate. Likewise, they need to mix between pressing high up the pitch when out of possession, or being able to sit deeper and look to counterattack. “And what are we doing with the ball?” said the assistant manager. “Are we obsessed with playing from goalkeeper to halfway line, or is that not so important? How are we going to get from the halfway line to make chances? Everybody has to be very clear about their roles and responsibilities. There is room for adaptation there, positionally, but I think that is the only way.”
All of which suggests a settled group will use international breaks, including the current two-game period, to familiarise themselves with Southgate’s demands and ensure that, come Russia next summer, England’s thinking is anything but muddled. Holland’s role is now full-time, his eight-year spell with Chelsea curtailed as a Premier League champion, with any fears rival elite clubs, Tottenham Hotspur among them, might have had over him gleaning inside information on players while on international duty presumably now allayed. “The job offered to me was not a ‘split duty’ job,” he said. “It was ‘come full-time or don’t come at all’, and I understand totally what that is. That is correct. I can see why people might have thought there were issues.
“I had the best eight years of my life at Chelsea, incredible experiences winning the Champions League and Premier League, so I am grateful to them. But it was not a wrench joining Gareth here. I’m 46 and I’ve never seen England in a final. My eldest son is 18 and he’s never seen England in a semi-final. When you can try and affect that, working with an England team that delivered success, that opportunity was impossible to reject.”
Sydney’s audacious bid to make the AFL finals faces another test against the last side to make a miraculous charge into September action. Thursday’s impressive 46-point win over reigning premiers the Western Bulldogs at the SCG lifted Sydney to a 4-7 record.
It bumped them three places up the ladder to 13th and ensured they will be no more than two wins off eighth by the end of the round. The resurgent Swans, who have won four of their last five after a 0-6 start, get a nine-day break before tackling Richmond at the MCG.
Three years ago, the Tigers were in an even worse mid-season position than the 2017 Swans, floundering in the lower reaches of the ladder with a 3-10 record after four straight losses. But the Tigers then reeled off nine straight wins to scrape into the top eight.
Long-suffering Richmond supporters are breathing more easily this season with the club firmly entrenched in the top eight with a 7-4 record. They were fourth going into their bye week and can’t drop more than one spot despite not playing.
Sydney coach John Longmire is clearly an admirer of the way the Tigers go about their business and knows his team will face a tough test at the MCG on Saturday week. “They have been fierce around the contest,” Longmire said of Richmond following the Swans’ win over the Bulldogs.
“Their pressure has been enormous, that’s the thing I’ve really noticed this year. They play a really strong hard brand of footy, so that’s a good challenge for us.”
Sydney utility Gary Rohan, who pulled out with sickness a few hours before Thursday’s game, is expected to be available next week. Recalled former co-captain Kieren Jack dlslocated fingers late in his comeback game against the Bulldogs, but earned praise from Longmire for lifting after a quiet first half.
“He was pretty important for us just in a leadership sense in that first half, and then he got going when he started to find his sea legs,” Longmire said. “His third quarter was really good and he started off well in the the last quarter as well, went in for centre bounces, and dislocated a couple of fingers there at the end, but he was pretty good in the second half.”.

What becomes obvious in conversation with Ivan Lendl is that his hard-nosed approach to the physical demands of his sport is the perfect antidote to the occasionally downbeat world view of Andy Murray.
It is a working athlete’s natural inclination to seek comfort in hardship. If it was easy, goes the thinking, everyone would be doing it; because it is not, the best survive and prosper. A word that recurs more often than most in a Murray interview is “tough”.
Certainly, with three slams to his name and the prospect of fighting for another one this weekend – after indifferent clay form, shingles, flu, injury and some struggles in his first five matches at this French Open – Murray has cause to wonder if he is in the best possible shape to play Stan Wawrinka in their semi-final on Friday. He says he is. “Physically, I feel great,” he said after defeating Kei Nishikori in four sets on Wednesday.
Enter his coach. “You have to put in consistent work to have consistent results,” Lendl said on Thursday. “If you have three illnesses and an injury which take you out for some time, you start again. You get going and you get ill or injured again, then you start again and again and again. It’s very difficult mentally for the player.
“It’s nice that Andy’s healthy and he can put the practices in – and I think the results are starting to come. I had a few injuries or have been ill at the wrong time of the year when I needed to do a training block. It happens.
“With the exception of the first two or three days, when he had a bit of flu, he has been putting in great work. He scraped through the first two matches and then the work started to come in.”
Murray has also complained in the past that the four-month gap between the first two slams of the season can affect a player’s motivation. Lendl demurs.
“Of course, you focus on the slams but, in order to play well in the slams, you have to have confidence. You get confidence through winning. You get winning through consistent work. So you are kind of feeding into that. I don’t think he’s low physically. He’s pretty strong out there. He doesn’t feel tired the next day. You don’t lose your conditioning over two- or three‑day flu. If you’re in bed for two or three weeks, you lose your conditioning. You just shake off flu and rebound very quickly to the level you were before. I’m not very concerned about that.”
Murray – along with everyone else at Roland Garros – was surprised to see Novak Djokovic wilt shockingly in the third and final set of his quarter-final against Dominic Thiem, shortly before the Scot came through his own dips to outlast Nishikori in 2hr 39min. The Serb, who has not won a slam since beating Murray in last year’s final here, has slipped well behind him in ranking points, and left the tournament dispirited and puzzled.
Djokovic could not explain his dramatic collapse – especially having beaten Thiem in 11 of the 12 games they played in the Rome semi-finals. Of the many theories circulating here, burnout was near the top of the list.
He had a public power outage at the worst possible moment and could do nothing about it after losing a tight first set – even with four chances left to repair the damage.
When Murray was asked how he has turned his tennis around this fortnight after early exits in the leadup clay tournaments where he did so well last year, he said: “I was doing a lot of very basic drills, a lot of patterns of play and just literally repeating those. Pretty boring. It’s not much fun. But, when I’m getting into longer rallies now, I feel like I’m on autopilot.”
He cannot afford to crash like Djokovic did. He must be fit enough on Friday to hold at bay an opponent regarded as the naturally strongest player on the tour, and who spent just 1hr 40min getting rid of Marin Cilic. Wawrinka has yet to drop a set; Murray has given up three and fought through three tie-breaks.
Lendl concedes it could turn into a battle of strength. “Yeah, possibly. It comes down to executing your gameplan and the conditions. Different conditions favour different players on the court – or not necessarily players, but the patterns you can do and can’t do. [On Wednesday] it was extremely difficult with the wind [at the start of the match]. Ball-striking was hard and Kei hit the ball incredibly well the first set. But then it left him. He was pushing Andy around because of the conditions and Andy couldn’t get the timing [right]. Then Kei couldn’t keep the timing because of the conditions.”
If Murray wins, he plays either Thiem or Rafael Nadal, who meet in the second semi-final. And that probably will be a slugging match. Of the four men left, the young Austrian hits his forehand with most venom, at 84mph, followed by Wawrinka (81mph), Nadal (79mph) and Murray (73mph).
As a comparison, the Latvian who on Thursday reached the women’s final, Jelena Ostapenko, has been averaging 76mph with her forehand. If Murray gets to the final for the second year in a row, he will be significantly in deficit in power off the ground, whoever he plays.
The British & Irish Lions have flown south, across the snow-capped Southern Alps, aware they have an increasing mountain to climb on tour in New Zealand. Some are billing their looming fixture with the Crusaders as a “fourth Test” on a par with facing the All Blacks and a second provincial defeat in four days would add to the pressure on Warren Gatland’s squad.
News that Sam Warburton has an ankle strain is another setback, with the tour captain having hurt himself in the opening game in Whangarei. His absence from the match-day squad to face the Crusaders does allow Sean O’Brien to stake his claim at openside but represents another headache for Gatland in an increasingly trying week.
The 22-16 defeat against the Blues on Wednesday has generated little external belief that the Lions are building towards a series win and the release of impressively strong All Blacks, Maori and Crusaders squads on the same day has not helped, either. When a young player as electric as the Chiefs’ Damian McKenzie cannot make even the All Blacks squad, let alone the starting lineup, New Zealand clearly have remarkable strength in depth.
At least the Lions have responded by naming their strongest side so far. Under the leadership of Alun Wyn Jones, the third successive Welsh captain named by Gatland, this is a team with a serious edge to it, with the first-choice half-backs Conor Murray and Owen Farrell also united for the first time and Liam Williams on the wing.
Gatland has stuck to his promise to give every player at least one start in the opening three games, with George North and Jonathan Davies featuring for the first time on this trip. Nine of the XV were involved on the victorious 2013 tour and have enough experience to know that Lions tours are defined by the last three weekends rather than the opening stanzas.
At least two thirds of this XV would appear to have a good chance of starting the first Test, although Gatland is insisting he has not yet commenced those deliberations, saying: “The players are going to get one or two chances before we start thinking about that. We haven’t spoken about Test combinations.” Plenty of others continue to do so on his behalf, however, and the centre pairing of Ben Te’o and Davies is just one area set to be closely monitored by all concerned.
What no one disputes is that Farrell is maturing into a top-notch international player and Gatland has been as impressed as anyone. “I’ve seen a massive development in him in the last four years,” the head coach said. “I think he’s been one of the top players in the northern hemisphere for the last two years. He’s a good age, he’s matured and he’s calm and confident.”
The fly-half himself is also not the sort to be fazed by a little adversity, particularly in a city that has had to show such extraordinary resilience in the face of the earthquake devastation from which the region is still recovering.
“Obviously you have to be mentally strong because of the standard of the opposition,” Farrell said. “We’ve got to have our wits about us, we’ve got to be in the game constantly. You can’t afford to have periods where you’re not on your mettle against teams like this.”
With the Highlanders, the Maori and the Chiefs also to come between now and the first Test on 24 June, Farrell concedes the touring team would not want to suffer five successive losses at this psychologically important stage: “I don’t think we would, no. You’ve got to take confidence from how you perform but that also comes from how you train, how you act and how you play. Games can be tipped on a knife edge sometimes, as you saw [on Wednesday]. It was a first outing for a lot of boys and I thought apart from the result it was a step in the right direction.”
That is a slightly debatable conclusion given the way the Lions’ discipline and execution began to fray in the second half. They conceded far too many “soft” penalties for Gatland’s liking and also made the mistake of compounding one error with another. “We need to make sure we’re a bit smarter than that,” Gatland said. “[Wednesday’s] result was disappointing. We know we can’t afford to give away so many penalties.”
The Lions will certainly need to raise their game to cope with a strong-looking Crusaders side captained by Sam Whitelock and containing a posse of All Blacks. “We are facing some of the best rugby players in the world but we have some of the world’s best in this team, too,” the head coach, Scott Robertson, said. “No matter how it unfolds, this will be a game the players involved will remember as one of the special moments in their careers.”
Crusaders I Dagg; S Tamanivalu, J Goodhue, D Havili, G Bridge; R Mo’unga, B Hall; J Moody, C Taylor, O Franks, L Romano, S Whitelock (capt), H Bedwell-Curtis, M Todd, J Taufua. Replacements B Funnell, W Crockett, M Alaalatoa, Q Strange, J Brown M Drummond, M Hunt, T Bateman.
British & Irish Lions S Hogg; G North, J Davies, B Te’o, L Williams; O Farrell, C Murray; M Vunipola, J George, T Furlong, AW Jones (capt), G Kruis, P O’Mahony, S O’Brien, T Faletau. Replacements K Owens, J McGrath, D Cole, M Itoje, C Stander, R Webb, J Sexton, A Watson.
Fernando Alonso has said he will leave McLaren unless the team can provide him with a winning car by September, and insisted he would also walk out of the sport if plans to increase the number of races to 25 were implemented.
Returning to F1 after competing in the Indy 500 where he was running strongly until his Honda engine gave out, Alonso was unequivocal about the need for the manufacturer to drastically improve their power unit. His comments echoed those of McLaren’s executive director, Zak Brown, who warned this week that time was running out for Honda after they failed to bring hoped for upgrades to Canada.
“We have to win,” Alonso said. “If we are winning before September when I make a decision, I will stay.” Winning by September is not on the cards for McLaren and his options to go elsewhere are extremely limited but he insisted he would move on. “Things have to change,” he said. “I want to win. I joined this project because I want to be world champion and we are not in that position so if you don’t see things changing and you are not in a competitive position you change projects.”
Alonso was equally unenamoured by suggestions that F1’s new owners would be increasing the number of races to 25 in a season, stating a position Lewis Hamilton said he agreed with. “I started when the calendar was 16 races, plus the tests, and now we keep increasing the races year after year,” said Alonso.
“We are in a number that is quite demanding already with the life you have between the preparation, the sponsor events, the tests, the commitments, plus 20 or 21 races. I think it’s already enough.
“I consider that a good quality of life is more important than more seasons in F1. If the calendar stays between 20 and 21 races, I would be happy to continue but it if increases it is not for me.”
Hamilton, meanwhile, has admitted he goes into this weekend’s Canadian Grand Prix on the back foot against his world championship title rival, Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel. After two difficult races already this season, Hamilton acknowledged that his Mercedes team need to bring him up to speed quickly at the Circuit Gilles Villeneuve, a track that shares traits with the others at which he has struggled.
Hamilton trails Vettel by 25 points in the standings but crucially in his attempt to win a fourth title Hamilton has struggled with his set-up twice this season and he and Mercedes need to identify the issues if he is to keep Vettel in sight.
“We have seen Ferrari are the quickest and that they are the favourites,” Hamilton said. “We are working hard to rectify the issues we had in the last race and hope we can attack this weekend. They have got some unique bits on the car which will work well this weekend but it doesn’t mean we can’t take the fight to them.”
He was off the pace all weekend in Russia, then at the last round in Monaco he could not hook up the car again and failed to make the final session of qualifying. Bringing the tyres into the right temperature for their operating window has been the major issue and it has been of greater import to Hamilton rather than his team-mate Valtteri Bottas.
Identifying and rectifying the problem before this weekend’s grand prix is paramount. The track itself is similar to Sochi and Monte Carlo, a low-abrasion, low-grip surface with short-duration corners and the tyre selection in Montreal is also the same, including the ultrasoft rubber, which has proved most troublesome for Hamilton. But he admitted that although he returned to the factory to work on the problem they would not be able to identify whether they have solved it until returning to the track.
“After the last race, there was a lot of information for the engineers to be working on but we didn’t have all the solutions and the answers at that point,” he said. “We have done some analysis but we will find whether or not there are new things we can improve on this weekend.”
The three-times world champion, who has won five times at the track, remained optimistic he could put in a good performance. “There are lots of opportunities for overtaking here, you can follow a little better than other circuits, it suits an aggressive driving style,” he said.
Romania’s Simona Halep will take on the unseeded Jelena Ostapenko for the French Open title after two outstanding semi-finals here on Thursday which showcased some of the best ball-striking and athleticism the game has to offer.
Halep, the third seed and considered a weak favourite in what was called the most open of French Opens, reached her second Roland Garros final by outmanoeuvring the second seed, Karolina Pliskova, to win 6-4, 3-6, 6-3. Ostapenko, the world No47, overcame Timea Bacsinszky of Switzerland 7-6, 3-6, 6-3 with a barrage of 50 winners, the last of which put the 20‑year‑old into her first grand slam final. She is the first Latvian player to achieve the feat.
There was more than a sense, when Halep came from a set and 5-1 down to win her quarter-final against Elina Svitolina of Ukraine on Wednesday, that the Romanian had survived the toughest moment she would face in the tournament. But the 2014 runner-up had to play well to cope with the easy power of Pliskova, the runner-up at the US Open last year.
Halep led 4-1 in the first set and though Pliskova hit back to 4-3, she broke again to move ahead. Pliskova hammered a series of winners to get the early break as she won the second set and looked confident when she recovered from 4-1 down in the third to get back on serve at 4-3. But Halep, who credits her coach, Darren Cahill, with her new positive attitude, did not panic. The Romanian dug deep and returned to her gameplan, getting the taller Pliskova on the move and hitting into space. It worked as she broke for 5-3 and she served out for a place in her second grand slam final. “It’s an amazing feeling right now,” Halep said. “I’m just happy. I don’t know what was yesterday, I just care about today. It was extremely tough.”
Victory in the final on Saturday would make Halep the world No1 for the first time in her career but first she will have to beat a woman who does not seem to know what pressure is. It is three years since Ostapenko won the junior Wimbledon title, since when she has taken time to mature, better known for her feisty attitude than her results. Until this fortnight, she had never been past the third round of a grand slam and she has yet to win a Tour title. Now she is one great day away from winning her first grand slam crown.
With the fearlessness only young players can truly show, Ostapenko bashed down winner after winner to defeat Bacsinszky in 2hr 24min. The Swiss, a semi-finalist two years ago, has the greater experience and more variety but for long periods of the match she was bludgeoned. Even when Bacsinszky fought back and levelled at 3-3 in the decider, Ostapenko never wavered from her all-or-nothing approach and she pulled away to become the first unseeded woman to reach the final since Mima Jausovec in 1983.
Both players were celebrating their birthday on the day of the match but Ostapenko will probably remember it best. “When I came here, of course I didn’t expect I would be in the final,” Ostapenko said. “But then, first match was a tough match as well, and I won it. I think it kind of gave me confidence. Then every match I was playing better and better and I got my confidence, and I think it works pretty well. She was playing pretty well, and I was telling myself that I have to still play aggressive but to be, like, smarter and to not make many unforced errors. And I think it helped me that I was still playing very aggressive.”
Bacsinszky said she regretted not taking some opportunities in the first set but for the most part was impressed at the outrageous hitting of Ostapenko.
“She’s 20, not afraid of anything,” Bacsinszky said. “She doesn’t measure maybe what she’s doing right now. She probably doesn’t care. Best example is the match point. I serve very well wide. She’s, like, hitting as hard as she can down the line from nowhere. It comes above the net and in the corner and, I mean, who tries that? Seriously? I mean, it’s like one out of 10. But she does it. So we’ll see if she does it at 28 years old.”
If Ostapenko wins the final on Saturday, she will not care too much about what happens when she is older.
England will take on one of rugby’s most formidable assignments – a Test match in Argentina – with four new caps in their starting XV and a further four players whose tally of Tests is in single figures. Most significant is the selection of Tom Curry, one of the twin brothers who have taken this England camp by storm.
Curry will become England’s youngest new cap since one Jonny Wilkinson made his debut, aged 18 years 314 days, in the 1998 Six Nations, just a couple of months before Curry was born. “My principle has always been that if a player is good enough, you play him whether he is old or young,” the head coach, Eddie Jones, said. “Some players at 18 are much more mature than players at 28. There were no qualms at all about throwing him in.”
If Curry’s career can be half as influential as Wilkinson’s, England are set fair indeed, all the more so as in this case there are two of them. The Curry boys, who play for Sale, turn 19 next Thursday, so Tom will be 18 years 360 days old when he takes to the field in San Juan on Saturday.
Whether England’s back row ever accommodates both brothers remains to be seen – their energy and industry might work well with a heavy-duty ball carrier, a Billy Vunipola, say – but for now they compete with each other. Ben was given the nod for the Barbarians game at the end of last month but had to withdraw from the bench with a back injury, so Tom replaced him, came on in the first half and was awarded man of the match.
Ben is not available for this match and joins Chris Robshaw and Sam Underhill as back-row forwards just failing to make it out of the treatment room. The loss of Robshaw’s experience is a particular blow for a squad shorn of 30 players by injury and the British & Irish Lions. “Chris is almost back to full training,” Jones said. “We just felt he was a bit tired. Certainly, he should be available for the second Test.”
The Pumas will face a XV with 345 caps, nearly a quarter of those owned by the captain, Dylan Hartley, who passes Martin Johnson to draw level with Lawrence Dallaglio and Rory Underwood as England’s third most capped player. All being well, both here and with the Lions in New Zealand, Hartley will claim third place outright, behind Wilkinson and Jason Leonard, in the second Test in Santa Fe on 17 June.
To conjure such names is to summon memories of England’s most glorious era. But, for all the success of more recent times, a victory on Saturday against battle-hardened Super Rugby players already up to speed with the game and each other will represent a feat every bit as impressive as any Jones has managed in his remarkable England tenure to date.
As well as Curry, he awards new caps to Alex Lozowski, Harry Williams and Mark Wilson. “He’s a good tough player, quite similar to Robshaw,” the England head coach said of the latter. “He’s a hard worker and a very tough player. He has impressed and really deserves his opportunity.”
Beyond the debutants, Henry Slade, Ellis Genge, Charlie Ewels and Nathan Hughes have fewer than 10 caps apiece. And if England should be looking for reassurance from the bench they will find only Matt Mullan with any caps at all. The anticipated debut of Denny Solomona may yet transpire, but he takes his place on the bench, having overcome the foot injury that had threatened his tour. Marland Yarde starts instead on the right wing.
“Test match rugby is about winning,” said Jones. “You only survive in Test match rugby if you win as a player and as a coach.”
Low on experience this collective may be, but the expectations of their coach remain as high as ever.
England M Brown (Harlequins, 60 caps); M Yarde (Harlequins, 11 caps), H Slade (Exeter, 5 caps), A Lozowski (Saracens, uncapped), J May (Gloucester, 25 caps); G Ford (Bath, 35 caps), D Care (Harlequins, 71 caps); E Genge (Leicester, 1 cap), D Hartley (capt; Northampton, 84 caps), H Williams (Exeter, uncapped), J Launchbury (Wasps, 42 caps), C Ewels (Bath, 3 caps), M Wilson (Newcastle, uncapped), T Curry (Sale, uncapped), N Hughes (Wasps, 8 caps). Replacements J Singleton (Worcester, uncapped), M Mullan (Wasps, 15 caps), W Collier (Harlequins, uncapped), N Isiekwe (Saracens, uncapped), D Armand (Exeter, uncapped), J Maunder (Exeter, uncapped), P Francis (Northampton, uncapped), D Solomona (Sale, uncapped).
Emirates Team New Zealand beat Ben Ainslie’s Land Rover BAR team in the first-to-five challenger semi-final on Thursday, ending British hopes in the 35th America’s Cup.
The New Zealand team held a 3-1 lead before Thursday’s races, and secured a 5-2 overall victory to end Ainslie’s dream of “bringing the America’s Cup back to Britain”. The New Zealand boat had capsized on Tuesday, with Wednesday’s four scheduled races then postponed due to high winds in Bermuda.
“We knew it was going to be incredibly tough at the first attempt,” Ainslie said. “Ultimately we weren’t able to catch up with the existing teams in time.”
Sailing’s most successful Olympian added: “I couldn’t be prouder of the team today. What we have achieved today is incredible.”
Ainslie has won the cup before, as tactician with Oracle Team USA in their 2013 comeback against Emirates Team New Zealand. But he wants to win it for “Queen and country” and under the banner “Bring The Cup Home” set about mounting his own challenge, launching BAR with the aim of doing something British teams have tried and failed to do on some 20 occasions.
New Zealand, helmed by Peter Burling, won the day’s first race by 31 seconds to move one race from eliminating the British crew. Ainslie steered his team to a 20-second victory to close the gap, but a mistake before the start line in the next race gave New Zealand a clear path to victory. Land Rover BAR tweeted shortly after their elimination, saying “our goal to win the 36th America’s Cup starts today”.
New Zealand will now progress to the challenger play-off, where they will face either Artemis Racing or SoftBank Team Japan. Sweden’s Artemis Racing currently lead their semi-final 4-3. The play-off winners will then take on the defending champions, Oracle Team USA, to determine the overall winners.
The body of the former Buffalo Bills wide receiver James Hardy has been recovered from a river near his home in Indiana, police have confirmed. He was 31.
Hardy was a college star at Indiana, where he also played basketball. He was drafted by the Bills in the second round of the 2008 draft but only played two injury-affected seasons for the team before a short spell for the Baltimore Ravens. He was released by the Ravens in September 2011, effectively ending his football career.
“We are saddened to learn of the passing of James Hardy today,” the Bills said in a statement. “We send our condolences to the Hardy family as they deal with his tragic loss.”
Hardy pursued an acting career after his retirement from football. In 2014, TMZ reported that he was arrested after attacking police officers but was declared unfit to stand trial by a judge and committed to a mental health facility.
Senior executives in British racing are starting to consider the possibility that some of the Flat season’s marquee events might suffer directly as a result of the diplomatic crisis in the Gulf, in which some of the sport’s most powerful participants are on opposite sides.
The current crisis, seen as the most serious in the region for several years, started on Monday when a coalition of states including Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates announced that it was cutting all economic and diplomatic ties with Qatar. The Saudi-led coalition has accused Qatar of destabilising the region by supporting “terrorist and sectarian groups”, charges that Qatar denies.
Sheikh Mohammed of Dubai, the most significant owner in world racing, is the UAE’s vice-president, prime minister and minister of defence. His Godolphin racing operation has 375 horses in training in Britain, and a total of 750 worldwide. Qatar, meanwhile, has also invested heavily in European racing in recent years through the increasing interest in the sport of two members of its ruling family, Sheikh Joaan al-Thani and Sheikh Fahad al-Thani.
The Qatari investment extends to racehorses and sponsorships, including the main Festival meeting at Goodwood in August and the Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe meeting in France, both of which have Qatar as their principal sponsor. The British Champions Series, which includes races at a number of top tracks and Champions Day at Ascot in October, is sponsored by the Qatari investment fund Qipco, which also supports Ireland’s most prestigious all-aged race, the Irish Champion Stakes at Leopardstown in September.
If the current crisis is not resolved swiftly it is possible major events including Glorious Goodwood could be affected. None of those connected to the key players that the Guardian contacted was prepared to comment on Thursday.
Godolphin was created to promote Dubai to the world and Sheikh Mohammed is its driving force. There is an acute awareness that, if the breakdown in diplomatic relations continues, it could seem inappropriate if the famous royal blue silks lined up for a race sponsored by Qatar.
Godolphin’s leading miler Ribchester, an impressive winner of the Lockinge Stakes at Newbury last month, finished a close third in the Qatar Sussex Stakes last season, and would be expected to be a leading contender for this year’s renewal. The Sussex Stakes is the feature event of what is now known as the Qatar Goodwood Festival as part of a 10-year sponsorship deal, which was the most valuable that British racing had seen when it was signed in 2014.
Ribchester is an obvious example of the possible dilemma that could face his owner, but Godolphin is such a major player in the sport that it would also expect to field fancied runners in other major events such as the Goodwood Cup, Richmond Stakes and Nassau Stakes, all of which are sponsored directly by Qatar.
The sensitivity over the situation among senior racing executives is considerable, and what all those involved in the administration and promotion of British racing are most desperate to avoid if the current situation in the Gulf continues is any hint of partiality. It is difficult to underestimate the importance of both sides to the future financial wellbeing of British racing, and the most earnest wish of all concerned is that diplomacy will find a way to resolve the crisis speedily.
Brighton 2.20 Bath And Tennis 2.50 Goodwood Crusader 3.20 Morache Music 3.50 Miss Inga Sock 4.20 Quloob 4.50 Many Dreams 5.20 Broughtons Fancy
Carlisle 2.10 Move It Move It 2.40 Manshood 3.10 My Girl Maisie 3.40 Savannah’s Dream 4.10 Silva Eclipse 4.40 Melting Dew 5.10 Highfield Lass 5.40 Remember Rocky
Wolverhampton 2.00 Blue Rocks 2.30 Dream Ally 3.00 Seneca Chief 3.30 Retrieve 4.00 Lugano 4.30 Helfire 5.00 Tadween 5.35 Society Ranger
Goodwood 5.55 Road To Dubai 6.30 Deeds Not Words 7.05 Meccabah 7.40 Getback In Paris (nb) 8.15 Mittens 8.50 Zambezi Queen
Haydock Park 6.15 Livella Fella 6.50 Red Force One 7.25 Kyllang Rock (nap) 8.00 La Celebs Ville 8.35 Willbeme 9.10 God Given
Stratford 5.30 Spencer Moon 6.05 Darwins Fox 6.40 Broken Eagle 7.15 Popaway 7.50 Balnaslow 8.25 Mr Satco 9.00 My Dance
On a grey, tense, occasionally febrile day at The Oval a Champions Trophy that has fizzled and sparked burst into vibrant life as Sri Lanka beat India by seven wickets to scenes of great joy among their flag-twirling fans.
This was a hugely impressive, relentlessly aggressive team batting performance as Sri Lanka chased down India’s 321, a total built around a fine century from Shikhar Dhawan. For India the match was probably lost in the middle overs as Sri Lanka bowled tightly and only MS Dhoni of that trio of grand middle order guns got into double figures.
Afterwards Angelo Mathews dedicated the win to Sri Lanka’s recent flood victims and said he hoped victory might “bring a smile” in some difficult times. The result at The Oval has also thrown up an intriguing turn for the tournament itself, with the final fixtures in Group B – Pakistan versus Sri Lanka and South Africa versus India – pared back into de facto knockout quarter-finals. It might have taken a while. We may have had to dry our socks once or twice. But the next 10 days look fraught with possibilities.
This match might still have turned late on with Sri Lanka closing in on India’s total.
Having limped his way to a feisty 47 Kusal Perera wandered off clutching a hamstring, breaking the spell of a wonderful partnership with Mathews that had seemed to be romping cloudlessly towards the finish. In came Asela Gunaratne in his place, a fun, slightly clubby-looking cricketer, who poked around a little before getting off the mark with a wonderful pulled six over square leg to leave Sri Lanka needing 43 from 36 balls. Gunaratne kept on swinging, plonking Jasprit Bumrah over midwicket. Mathews raced to his 50 and with eight balls remaining Sri Lanka were home.
The large Indian crowd was slightly chastened by the end, not to mention distinctly thinned out. But The Oval had been a seething and enthused full house for most of the day, with flags and colours of both nations ranged around the bleachers. The first great swirl of excitement came at the toss as Mathews chose to field, offering up the prospect of another display of muscular ignition from that bravura Indian top order.
At times, though, the most striking moments in a cricket match tend to arrive with a stunned hush. And so it was here midway though the Indian innings, with the deep blue platform set and the crowd cranking up the volume. Rohit Sharma had got to 50 with a flipped six off Thisara Perera, bringing up the hundred without loss in the 20th over. That first six was hit hard and flat and spilt over the boundary by Gunaratne, but the same shot led to Sharma being bounced out two overs later, spooning a catch to deep fine leg.
Enter Virat Kohli, to the familiar gale of triumphalist squeals and swoons. Bathos is defined as a sudden, unintentionally humorous anti-climax. Another definition might be Kohli c Dickwella b Pradeep 0, the world’s top white-ball batsman caught attempting a glide to a full-length ball that moved off the seam, as they will at times in England. Kohli trudged off, the silence broken only by some “who are you” chants from the Anglo-Sri Lankan ultras in the OCS stand. Kohli has batted five times now for India at The Oval for 54 runs and five times out.
At the other end Dhawan kept on motoring, that huge, pale sabre of a bat marking out a lovely high parabola and sending the ball disappearing at high speeds square of the wickets. But at 179 for two the second stunned silence arrived as Yuvraj Singh was dismissed, bowled by Gunaratne jamming a full loopy ball down into the ground, feet motionless, and seeing the ball bounce back on to his stumps. Asela bowls something perhaps best described as mystery trundlers. This was a floaty cutter that Yuvraj just seemed to lose.
Exit one galactico, enter Dhoni, who got off the mark with an extraordinary helicopter-upper cut – into the crowd over wide third man. The 200 came up at the end of the 38th over. Dhawan carved his way to his 10th hundred in one-day internationals, seven of which have come outside India. Hardik Pandya came and went, flogging Lakmal over midwicket for six before a flaccid exit next ball, swatting a wide yorker to cover.
Dhoni rattled along to 50 at a run a ball, a patient innings studded with brutal hitting, but was out soon after whirling himself almost off his feet skying a catch to long off. And for all the delirium of the crowd a score of 321 for six was imposing but still gettable.
Sri Lanka emerged cautiously in reply, edging to 44 from their opening 10 overs for the loss of Dickwella, caught slicing to short third man. The commandingly upright left-hander Danushka Gunathilaka drove with authority and produced one spanked swivelling six over deep fine leg that clattered the seats. He was joined by Kusal Mendis, who played with real wristy power all around the wicket as Sri Lanka got after Ravindra Jadeja, reduced on a bland English pitch to a rather glamorous purveyor of left-arm darts. Gunathilaka was run out for a fine 76, his top score in ODIs.
Mendis departed soon after for a lovely 89, brilliantly run out by Bhuvneshwar Kumar, but both Mathews and Kusal Perera carved fearlessly as India’s fielding grew a little ragged and a tough looking chase became a stately, occasionally violent procession.
Diego Costa’s decision to make public a text message exchange with Antonio Conte, in which the Italian apparently confirmed the striker has no future with Chelsea, could end up costing the Premier League champions millions of pounds with potential suitors now aware the Spain forward is unsettled at Stamford Bridge.
Costa, who is with his national squad having played a significant part in his club side’s title success, has said he will “have to find a way out” given his relationship with Conte and the club has effectively fractured beyond repair. Yet Chelsea have made clear to the 28-year-old that he will not be permitted to negotiate his own exit and, instead, the club will take the lead in overseeing the departure of a player whose contract has two years to run.
Chelsea had initially hoped to sell Costa to Tianjin Quanjian for £76m but their chances of generating such a mind-boggling fee, which could have been reinvested in the pursuit of Everton’s Romelu Lukaku, have been complicated by the player’s comments to the media after Spain’s draw with Colombia on Wednesday night. The striker had suggested his relationship with Conte “has been bad this season” before relaying a text exchange between the pair.
“I’m going to be honest, the other day Conte sent me a message saying he does not count on me for next season,” Costa said in the mixed zone, “so I’ll have to find a way out.” The fact the striker has made clear he has been told he can leave would appear to undermine Chelsea’s bargaining position with possible buyers. Costa could even pursue the payment of a loyalty bonus if sold given he has not formally asked for a transfer and has been told the club are actively looking to move him on.
It is understood Conte had sent an initial message detailing what he expected of the player in terms of fitness work over the summer, with the indifferent tone of Costa’s response apparently prompting a follow-up which cast doubt on the player’s future. The pair’s relationship has been tested regularly over the manager’s first year in English football. The first cracks opened in pre-season, when Costa had claimed a back injury prevented him from playing a full part in the manager’s monotonous if crucial pattern-of-play sessions, and an angry clash with a fitness coach in the wake of Tianjin first expressing interest in January testing matters further.
He was subsequently dropped for a league game at Leicester. Conte claimed that was because of another back complaint – he has been consistent in only selecting players able to play a full part in training – and had opted not to criticise the player in public after Costa was filmed enjoying a post-match beer in the dressing room following a win against West Bromwich Albion the previous month. On each occasion, the Italian made clear he would not tolerate the forward’s influence disrupting Chelsea’s pursuit of the title and, to his credit, Costa responded by leading the line effectively and taking his goal tally to 22 in all competitions. His last came in the FA Cup final defeat by Arsenal.
The player indicated in the aftermath at Wembley that he would resist any move to the Chinese Super League before the World Cup next summer, with his preference a return to his former club Atlético Madrid. Yet with the Spanish side’s transfer ban upheld and not due to expire until January 2018, he would face sitting out the first half of next season if Atlético mustered a bid deemed acceptable to Chelsea. He is unlikely to have the patience for such a scenario. “I love living in Madrid but I have to think about my future,” Costa had said. “It’s complicated because I cannot go four or five months without playing. I have no preference for a league, I just want to play.”
More plausible may be an initial switch to Milan, now under the ownership of Li Yonghong, to follow in the footsteps of Fernando Torres. The Spaniard ended up back at Atlético via a spell at San Siro, and Costa’s agent, Jorge Mendes, is believed to have been in Italy on Thursday to speak with the Rossoneri over summer recruitment. Costa’s situation will have been addressed, although Milan have alternative forward options they may opt to pursue.
Chelsea always envisaged adding to their forward ranks this summer, and had hoped to persuade Everton to drop their £100m valuation of Lukaku. Yet even that price may rise now that their eagerness to shift Costa has been exposed. The Premier League winners do retain an interest in Southampton’s Virgil van Dijk, who is no longer under immediate consideration by Liverpool, and will seek to purchase a back-up goalkeeper to replace Asmir Begovic.
Transfers are not part of Peter Moore’s remit as Liverpool’s new chief executive and the club’s alleged tapping up of Virgil van Dijk predated his official start date in the job, but his first Premier League meeting in Harrogate on Thursday will have been awkward regardless. Southampton are not the only member club to regard an emissary of Fenway Sports Group with scepticism and suspicion.
Liverpool’s owners, including John W Henry and the chairman, Tom Werner, were heavily involved in the damaging decision to withdraw interest publicly in Van Dijk on Wednesday, 24 hours after Southampton complained to the Premier League of a clandestine approach and 48 hours after it emerged the Holland defender favoured a move to Anfield over Chelsea, Manchester City and Arsenal.
In a statement Liverpool clalimed that “recent media speculation” was the source of “our regret”, which raises the question of why the plug was pulled on this summer’s transfer priority when countless targets who have been mentioned in the media have ended up at Anfield in the past. The evidence that Southampton allegedly have against Liverpool – Van Dijk meeting Jürgen Klopp in Blackpool, text messages from the manager to the player – suggests FSG would be justified in fearing an investigation into its club’s conduct should the Premier League take the complaint further. That could still happen, with the Premier League having written to both clubs to request their version of events. It is also worth noting that Liverpool withdrew their interest in a £60m-rated transfer, one that was months in the planning, following communication with Southampton earlier in the day.
Liverpool are under a transfer embargo at academy level for the next two years – the second year suspended – having been found guilty of tapping up a 12-year-old schoolboy from Stoke City and offering him and his family inducements.
Five years ago it was Fulham who received an apology from Liverpool after they reported the Anfield club to the Premier League for making an illegal approach to Clint Dempsey. Fulham were particularly aggrieved by a report on FSG’s website that claimed the USA international had joined Brendan Rodgers’ squad. It took a personal apology from Werner to Fulham’s then owner, Mohamed al-Fayed, followed by a letter from Liverpool’s then managing director Ian Ayre that stated: “Our club can do better and we pledge that it will,” before officials at Craven Cottage withdrew the complaint.
FSG is said to be concerned at the impact of the Van Dijk approach on Liverpool’s reputation, hence the sudden U-turn. Its dubious record in dealing with other clubs – whether on transfers or seeking to end the collective sale of overseas broadcasting rights – suggests an inability to learn from mistakes is the bigger problem.
It would be breathtakingly hypocritical of other Premier League clubs, or any professional club for that matter, to condemn Liverpool for sounding out a potential recruit. Equally, it is fair to accuse FSG or those who run the club on its behalf in England – the president, Mike Gordon, the sporting director, Michael Edwards, and Klopp – of turning what should have been a major statement of intent in the transfer market into a shambles. The warning signs did not emerge on Monday. It was 20 April when the Liverpool manager, discussing how Anfield is a more attractive proposition for recruits this summer, said: “The talks we’ve had so far are very positive. That doesn’t mean it will all work out but they are really positive and they all see the progress. That’s good.”
Klopp has missed out on a key defensive target before Liverpool had approached Southampton with a bid. Van Dijk may now question Liverpool’s commitment to a deal that always appeared problematic given he is under contract at Southampton for another five years. Liverpool have alternative central defensive targets having been conscious that Van Dijk would look elsewhere if Champions League football were not on offer – Burnley’s Michael Keane, Hull’s Harry Maguire and Napoli’s Kalidou Koulibaly are among them – but can ill-afford further blunders as they strive to build on last season’s progress. Efforts to sign Mohamed Salah have also stalled in recent days with Liverpool reluctant to meet Roma’s asking price.
It was only last week that Moore, on his first day as Ian Ayre’s successor, stated that Liverpool “won’t be spending £100m just because Manchester City has spent £100m”. But Liverpool, and FSG recognise as much, do need to invest £100m-plus in a squad that will be competing, Klopp hopes, for the Champions League and Premier League title next season. Considering Liverpool were offering £28m for Salah at the time and had treated a £60m target to a day out in Blackpool, Moore’s attempted contrast with City’s expenditure was somewhat inaccurate. City’s ability to get two signings worth £78.3m over the line with a minimum of fuss – Bernardo Silva and Ederson – is another contrast that reflects poorly on Liverpool.
There remains plenty of time and money for Klopp to enhance his squad of course but, without another dramatic turn of events in the Van Dijk saga, the rebuilding will continue without the player he wanted for the cornerstone of Liverpool’s defence. A severe and avoidable setback.
Eoin Morgan has been singled out as the most important figure behind England’s one-day revival by the team’s assistant coach, Paul Farbrace, who believes their current barnstorming approach to the format comes down to the captain’s near relentless backing of his players.
After wins over Bangladesh and New Zealand, England go into Saturday’s group game against Australia at Edgbaston with a Champions Trophy semi-final already sewn up and their one headache being whether to stick with Jason Roy or parachute in Jonny Bairstow as opener.
Morgan has previously said Roy will play through the entire tournament but his faith is being tested by the right-hander’s average of 6.71 from his seven international innings this summer. Farbrace all but ruled out a switch, however, saying it would go against the philosophy of the captain that has made their disastrous 2015 World Cup a distant memory.
“I think Eoin Morgan is the single biggest factor in England’s success in the last two years in white-ball cricket,” said Farbrace, who stepped up as caretaker coach during the New Zealand series that followed the World Cup and witnessed something of an epiphany when the side came out all guns blazing by posting 408 for nine in Birmingham in the first ODI.
“Andrew Strauss [the director of cricket] took a lot of credit in that he talked about a new emphasis, while Trevor Bayliss has come in as a very experienced coach. But for me, Eoin Morgan is the single biggest factor.
“In the buildup to that game here in 2015 [against New Zealand] he talked to players about going and playing your way – there’ll be no one getting stuck into you if you get out playing an ordinary shot. People have taken his lead and I think that’s why the team has flourished.”
Roy actually made a golden duck during that watershed total two years ago in his maiden international innings but it was the selflessness shown in attacking for the team that means Farbrace is fully behind Morgan’s current support of the 26-year-old.
He said: “We haven’t seen anything about him that suggests he is struggling for confidence. We’ve been consistent with our selections and we’ve stuck by people when they haven’t been taking wickets or scoring runs. It’s always paid dividends. I don’t see Jason being any different.
“At no stage has he ever tried to get runs for himself to keep himself in the next game. He’s always played in the way we want him to as a team and you stick by people in that case.”
Bairstow was one of four England reserves to train in the indoor school at Edgbaston on Thursday, with the XI that beat New Zealand in Cardiff given an extra day off.
On the prospect of knocking out Australia on Saturday, Farbrace added: “Our motivation is purely on keeping momentum going and playing well. We think we’re still learning. Who we’re playing on Saturday is irrelevant. It’s a case of us continuing to do well. Australia have a high quality. You want the players to be excited by that.”
Notwithstanding the vagaries of the London transport network, the biggest insult to an already beleaguered Scotland support at Wembley last November was not delivered on the pitch. As English fans vacated the premises in their thousands with plenty of time to play, their team 3-0 ahead, it became tricky to distinguish this occasion from the visit of Lithuania.
If this seems a strange scenario to highlight, consider the reverse. Should Scotland, by some miracle, find themselves coasting to victory against England at Hampden Park on Saturday there will be no rush to join the nightlife scene. Precisely the same desire to stay put and celebrate applied when the Scots recorded a famous home win over France in 2006.
Perhaps the fact that Scotland no longer pull off the kind of uplifting, surprise results when huge underdogs breeds desperation. If it has always appeared the case Scotland place more significance on a meeting with the Auld Enemy than the English – see Wembley 1977 as a case in point – respective attitudes have surely never looked more contrasting.
England’s supporters are perfectly accustomed to qualifying for major championships as a bare minimum. While Gareth Southgate can hardly be classed as a blue-chip manager, his players collectively operate at a level from which the Scots have long since been removed. But, intriguingly, as far as professionals are concerned any notion that Scotland actually care more about a fixture with England than their opposition is flawed.
“That idea is completely wrong,” says David Weir, who won 69 Scotland caps and spent a significant chunk of his career at Everton. “They might play it down beforehand – like they are not bothered and it’s not that important a game because they are a big country who play against big countries all the time – but they’ll happily rub your nose in it afterwards.
“It gets painted as Scotland’s World Cup final but the reality is if England get a result they like to enjoy it and stress the importance of it. They might even say how easy it was to beat us. It definitely means plenty to England, albeit they try to downplay it. There is always still an edge to that game”.
For England the stakes are, of course, higher in one respect. “We are talking about qualification for a World Cup,” says Weir. “England are in a decent position but that can change quickly. The English players also know the stick they get if they don’t win any international.”
There are many background factors that are pertinent here, of course. Scotland is the smaller neighbour, for starters. For so long, the production of top-class football players north of the border meant Scots loved causing embarrassment to the English – and could. The negative depiction of England, particularly when it comes to sport, in Scotland would always involve arrogance.
It is a truism throughout football that some fans would take one-off success over age-old rivals before more tangible reward. Scotland’s problem is, without a major tournament appearance since 1998 and a world ranking of 61, this rivalry exists on grounds of history alone. It is difficult to link battles for land dating back centuries as a motivation for people attending a football game in 2017 but the current political landscape – where an independent Scotland is very much part of the equation – fuels attitudes on both sides. “They want it badly too,” insists Craig Burley who, like Weir, was a Scotland international based in England.
“We tend to convince ourselves it means more to us as a mechanism to overcome [football] class deficit, particularly now. They’re depicted as caring less because of salaries and reputations. I can’t speak for individuals but as a whole the English lads I knew wanted it badly. This ‘they’re not bothered as much as us’ does not wash with me.”
For a spell in the late 1980s Ray Wilkins was the reverse of Weir and Burley – a decorated England international who enjoyed a club period at Rangers. “I always felt the rivalry was equally intense at both ends,” Wilkins says. “What I remember was hilarity when we came to play at Hampden, with some of the antics from the supporters towards us when we were on the bus or before kick‑off. We used to be in absolute fits on the coach.
“ You do tend to get the impression that it means more in Scotland. Most of the time when I played, Scotland were the underdogs, so there was that little bit of added intensity on their behalf. But believe me – if there was one fixture we wanted to win, it was that one.”
Jim Baxter enjoyed a superb club career but is best known as the player to do keepy-uppys in a Scotland shirt at Wembley in 1967. So much of the Tartan Army’s chosen verse involves barbs, putting it mildly, towards England. The trouble is, evidence that a sense of significance works both ways is increasingly difficult to find; off the field, at least.
1967 England 2 Scotland 3 Goals from Denis Law, Bobby Lennox and Jim McCalliog lead to the world champions being beaten on home turf
1977 England 1 Scotland 2 The Tartan army invade the Wembley pitch following a deserved Home International win by the visitors
1985 Scotland 1 England 0 Jock Stein’s men win the short-lived Rous Cup after Richard Gough’s 69th‑minute goal at Hampden Park
The Dutch sprinter Amy Pieters beat the British national champion, Hannah Barnes, to victory on stage two of the Women’s Tour in Stoke-on-Trent.
Pieters, a Boels-Dolmans team-mate of Lizzie Deignan, edged out Canyon/SRAM’s Barnes and Ellen van Dijk (Sunweb) to take the win, while the stage one winner, Katarzyna Niewiadoma, was fifth to retain the overall lead.
The 144.5km stage around Stoke-on-Trent finished in a reduced sprint after the lone escapee, Lucinda Brand (Sunweb), was caught with seven kilometres left to go. Brand had sought to follow the blueprint of Niewiadoma’s solo win on Wednesday as she attacked off the front after Ipstones, the first of the two categorised climbs late in the day. Brand built a lead of one minute and 20 seconds over the peloton and was still almost a minute clear as she began the final 20km, but in contrast to the opening day there was no hesitating in the pack as the chase was on.
Barnes’ sister Alice, riding for the Drops team, was eighth while Dani King (Cylance) was ninth as three British riders finished in the top 10.
Niewiadoma continues to lead the general classification by 1min 42sec from her WM3 team-mate Marianne Vos, with Hannah Barnes third on the same time.
Meanwhile, Germany’s Phil Bauhaus beat the big-name sprinters to victory on stage five of the Critérium du Dauphiné in Mâcon. The 22-year-old Sunweb rider took his first WorldTour victory ahead of the stage two winner, Arnaud Démare of FDJ, and Direct-Energie’s Bryan Coquard, while Nacer Bouhanni (Cofidis) and Alexander Kristoff (Katusha-Alpecin) could manage only fifth and sixth respectively.
Thomas De Gent (Lotto-Soudal) finished in the pack to retain his overall lead – although he will expect to be spending his last day in the yellow and blue jersey on Friday with the general classification battle about to come alive.
This was the last opportunity for the sprinters before the race heads to the mountains for the final three days, with Chris Froome needing to make up time after he was only eighth on Wednesday’s time trial. He sits sixth overall, 64 seconds down on De Gendt, but it is his former team-mate Richie Porte who is seen as in pole position for overall victory. The Tasmanian, now with BMC, is in second place with 37 seconds in hand over Froome.
On Thursday morning, the French newspaper L’Équipe published a story suggesting Froome wants to ride for BMC next year but the Sky man told Cycling News the story was “complete rubbish” while BMC also denied having an interest in the three-times Tour winner. In 2016, Froome signed a contract with Team Sky which runs until the end of the 2018 season.
Usain Bolt has revealed how the death of his close friend Germaine Mason, the British high jumper, left him so devastated that he was unable to train for more than two weeks, threatening to derail his farewell season.
The eight-times Olympic gold medallist had been out with the 34-year-old Mason before he died in a motorcycle accident in Kingston in April, and was one of the first on the scene after the crash. Pictures of a distraught Bolt, in tears as he carried Mason’s coffin in the funeral, showed how much his friend’s death had affected him.
“It was rough for me at the start. It took us by surprise and set me back a little bit training-wise,” Bolt said. “Mentally, I wasn’t ready to even train for, like, two and a half weeks, which I had to take off and just collect myself.
“So I have been working hard trying to get back to where I was, but I am confident in myself and my coach that we can get it done because we have done it years and years, and this year isn’t any different. So it was tough, but I have to focus on what I have to do.”
Bolt is now back in training and hopeful of showing his form when he makes his last ever appearance in Jamaica at the Racers Grand Prix, at Kingston’s National Stadium on Saturday. The meeting is set to feature a star-studded cast of athletes including Britain’s four-times Olympic champion Mo Farah, the double Olympic 800m gold medallist David Rudisha and South Africa’s 400m world record holder and Rio gold medallist Wayde van Niekerk.
“I know my friend would have wanted me to go out there to do my best and to be strong and to be focused on what needs to be done,” said Bolt, who believes he is back on track in his preparations for the World Championships in London in August, where he is due to run the 100m and 4x100m relay.
“There is no other place to do the last one,” he told the Gleaner. “The Olympics in London was out of this world. The support, the energy in the stadium was magnificent. Everywhere in the world I go people keep saying: ‘See you in London’. I don’t know if they have so many tickets, but I know the energy is going to be amazing, and it will definitely be emotional for me,” he said of this summer’s championship. “It’s the last one, and so many Jamaican fans will be there, and it’s for me to go out in as much glory as I can. I am looking forward to it.”
Mason was born in Jamaica and trained with the Stephen Francis-coached MVP Track Club before switching allegiance to Great Britain in 2006. Two years later he won a silver medal for Great Britain in Beijing after jumping 2.34m – a height that equalled his personal best – to finish behind the Russian Andrey Silnov, who cleared 2.36m.
Craig Shakespeare has been confirmed as Leicester City’s permanent manager and given a three-year contract that provides a measure of the club’s faith in him after he steered the team away from the Premier League relegation zone in the wake of Claudio Ranieri’s sacking.
Leicester’s owners were hugely impressed with the way Shakespeare galvanised the players across the final three months of the season and the only surprise is that the club took so long to announce that the 53-year-old has been rewarded with the job.
Shakespeare, who had previously served as assistant manager to Ranieri and Nigel Pearson, won eight of his 16 matches in charge, including seven in the Premier League, ensuring that any fears of relegation were allayed as Leicester finished 12th after winning the title the season before. He also guided Leicester into the Champions League quarter-finals after overseeing a memorable 2-0 second-leg win against Sevilla at the King Power Stadium.
Although he had never managed before, Shakespeare made no secret of the fact that he was interested in succeeding Ranieri shortly after he was given an opportunity in February. It quickly became clear that he enjoyed the support of players who were disillusioned under Ranieri, and that showed in a turnaround that led to Shakespeare becoming the first British manager to win his first five Premier League matches in charge. Staff were also impressed with the way Shakespeare adapted to the role and looked like a natural manager.
Talks took place with the club’s owners at the end of the season and culminated in the news that Shakespeare has been given a long-term deal to build on the results of last season.
“This is a really exciting opportunity for me to continue along this new path in my career and to continue to work with a club and a group of staff I’ve grown extremely close to,” Shakespeare said. “I’m grateful to the owners and the board of directors for their continued faith and support.
“Our preparations for pre-season and the new Premier League campaign have been ongoing for some time, but we can now move on with certainty and ensure we are well equipped to compete at the levels now expected of a club like Leicester City.”
As well as trying to strengthen the squad over the summer, Shakespeare will need to bring in an assistant manager. He is also expected to add another coach to a backroom team that was left depleted when Ranieri departed along with several of the staff that worked alongside him.
For Leicester’s owners, who were vindicated in their controversial decision to dismiss Ranieri, Shakespeare is seen as the right man to lead the club after a couple of remarkable years, during which they have won the Premier League, flirted with relegation and got through to the last eight of the Champions League.
“Craig has shown all the qualities in leadership, motivation and talent management that are required to be successful in this role,” Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha, Leicester’s vice chairman, said.
“Those qualities, aligned with his first‑class coaching acumen, his knowledge of Leicester City and its philosophy, and the respect he has earned at every level of the club make him the ideal choice to help take us forward.
“Our primary objective for the coming years is to successfully translate the extraordinary experiences of the last two seasons into lessons that will strengthen and enhance the club’s pursuit of its long‑term vision of sustainable success.
“Continuity is among the key elements to making such a process work. Over the last nine years, Craig has built a unique insight into the catalysts for success at Leicester City, its impact on our personnel and the conditions needed to ensure its longevity.”
The Reverend David Warner, as he is now known by his Australia team-mates, has pointed to his late-night swing at Joe Root in Birmingham’s Walkabout bar four years ago as the turning point in his career, one that has led to him becoming the most feared of openers on the field while transforming him into a mild family man off it.
The meeting on Saturday between Australia and England at Edgbaston – a match Steve Smith’s side likely need to win to join their opponents in the Champions Trophy semi-finals – was always going to lead to Warner’s infamous punch being revisited. It came after the corresponding fixture in 2013, resulting in his banishment from the start of the Ashes series that summer.
Now 30, married with two young children and teetotal to boot, Warner looks back at that night as the making of him, with the numbers since certainly supporting the theory given that 26 of his 31 international centuries have come since the Walkabout incident.
“It was definitely [pivotal] in becoming the person I am today and not just the cricketer,” said Warner, speaking four years to the day of the episode that followed England’s 48-run win and led to his being suspended, fined £7,000 and packed off to Australia’s A tour of Zimbabwe.
“We all go through periods when young and naive. It’s not about stuffing up and moving on, it’s about learning the ropes of being away on tour for such a long period of time. There are things you have to think about as a youngster: ‘What can or can’t I do?’ I probably didn’t work that out at that stage but now I have and have a great balance on and off the field.”
There are things you have to think about as a youngster. ‘What can or can’t I do?’
The incident, called “an unprovoked physical attack” by England in a statement at the time, was said to have been sparked by Warner taking offence at Root wearing a wig on his chin in the belief he was mocking South Africa’s Hashim Amla. The Yorkshireman labelled this explanation “ridiculous” before the pair went on to bury the hatchet during the 2015 Ashes series. “People didn’t look too far or deep into it to see who was in the right or wrong – and that’s forgotten,” the Australia vice‑captain said. “But that’s all gone, it’s in the past and we can tell a ‘happily ever after’ story at the end of my career.”
Warner said the pair would shake hands this weekend and might even return to the Walkabout if they offer him a couple of free soft drinks. But while his previous nickname of “the Bull” has largely been replaced by something more ethereal these days, he insists the punchy side of his character has not fully disappeared.
“It depends on what day you get me,” Warner replied. “Most of the time, I’m probably the Reverend – as they say – but look, it’s about coming out and winning games for Australia and being the best person I can [be] around the team and around people outside cricket.”
Warner comes into the England match brimming with form, having crunched more one-day runs (1,957) since the last World Cup than any other batsman and top-scored in the most recent Indian Premier League, with his lower centre of gravity and brutal cut-shot making him one of the most thrilling players to watch.
But it is of course England who can land the knockout blow on Saturday, with Australia going into the game on the back of two washouts against New Zealand and Bangladesh that have left their hopes of reaching the semi-finals hanging by a thread.
Warner said: “England are a very good team – one of the best in the world. They’ve been playing fantastic cricket and in their own back yard, they know the conditions, they bowl well and they bat well. For us, it’s about coming out and playing our best cricket to beat them.
“I think the way Eoin [Morgan] has been handling the troops is fantastic – he has been the key and his form alongside Rooty has been fantastic. We know Jase [Roy], hasn’t been going well, but he is a key man for them at the top of the order and the same with [Alex] Hales.
“We have to respect each and every bowler that we face – they have been bowling well and used the conditions in Cardiff, we have to be mindful of that.”
The Bull of old may have looked to try a few mind-games ahead of match but that the rebranded 2017 version is now talking up his opponents is surely cause for a hallelujah.
A shiny bronze pfennig for the thoughts of Jürgen Klopp. The man worked absolute wonders last season to earn Liverpool a place in the Big Cup qualifiers. Just think about it for a minute: a top-four finish, despite a defence featuring a goalkeeper who only finally learned how to punch the ball correctly this March, a teenage striking sensation gone to seed, and Dejan Lovren. Klopp’s reward for turning base metal into gold? The promise of some transfer money for a few upgrades. So he gave sporting director Michael Edwards a list with the names Mohamed Salah, Naby Keïta, Ryan Sessegnon and Virgil van Dijk on it. But on the way to the shops, Edwards dropped the list. Then on the way back, Edwards lost his yellow basket. A-tisket, a-tasket! Won’t someone help him find his basket? Was it green? No! Was it blue? No no no no! Just a little yellow basket.
The thick black vapour currently pouring from Klopp’s lugs as a result of this clanking ineptitude brings to mind one of the great quotes regarding clodhopping transfer-market uselessness. “What do you think they’re smoking over there?!” quipped none other than Liverpool owner John W Henry, upon taking receipt of Arsenal’s pointlessly antagonistic £40,000,001 bid for Luis Suárez back in 2013. Now, four years down the line, Henry’s own club have taken needlessly self-defeating behaviour to a whole new level during their brash pursuit of Van Dijk. A level which, if Henry’s First Law of Negotiation Buffoonery is any measure, suggests we’re way beyond mere smokes, probably past hot knives too, and on to a contraption consisting of a sturdy bucket, a 10-gallon barrel of water and several metres of garden hose.
As if being forced into a humiliating climbdown after prematurely celebrating Van Dijk’s arrival wasn’t bad enough, Liverpool also look like losing out on Sessegnon to Spurs and Keïta to Milan, while the Salah deal has seemingly stalled over a stubborn refusal to meet a headline £42m bill, despite reports in Italy claiming Roma would be perfectly happy with £35m as a compromise. Given all four transfers were recently considered shoo-ins, it may be time for Liverpool’s backroom staff to be given a refresher course on arm-joint/large-intestine identification techniques. Although fair’s fair, they did start the summer by landing Dominic Solanke, who scored twice against Italy on Thursday to send England to the U-20 World Cup final. That’s England’s first World Cup final at any level since 1966 … and he’s the two-goal hero! So that’s got to be worth something, right, Liverpool fans? Eh? Y’what?
“I’m a privileged footballer. I could vote for benefit of my tax rate. But won’t. This is about everyone in our society” – Brighton’s Liam Rosenior, telling it like it is.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“Yesterday’s Fiver strapline read: ‘In today’s Fiver: doing the bare minimum …’ Isn’t that every day?” – Dave Warburton.
“Instead of looking for correlation between Tory election victories and Chelsea winning the league (yesterday’s Knowledge), consider instead the link between the party and the denizens of Anfield. Both got off to a splendid start in the campaign before being banjaxed by about halfway through; both have a manic leader with an overanalysed fashion accessory; both bang on continually about Europe when you suspect they will exit in a messy and unsatisfactory manner and both were supported by Cilla Black” – Paul Wilson.
“Now that Virgil will not be landing Thunderbird 2 at Anfield, should Alan, John and Scott resume their low-Earth orbit search for Chris Waddle’s Italia 90 penalty? Liverbirds are go!” – Mark McFadden.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Paul Wilson.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Leicester City will appoint Craig Shakespeare as manager any minute now.
Diego Costa’s summer isn’t quite going to plan. “My relationship with the coach has been bad this season,” he sniffed. “[Antonio] Conte sent me a message saying he does not count on me, so I’ll have to find a way out.”
Manchester United will increase their bid for Real Madrid’s Álvaro Morata to £60m. “He wants to play more,” parped his Mr 15% excitedly. “The player will take a clear and definitive decision in the coming days.”
Saudi Arabia’s national team have been criticised for failing to observe a minute’s silence held before their 3-2 World Cup qualifying defeat against Australia.
England U-20s boss Paul Simpson admits he is living the dream after guiding his team to a World Cup final. “I was born in 1966 and that was the last time we did it,” he beamed. “We have a whole group of people that have supported us so well and we now want to do ourselves justice in the final.”
Chris Smalling is going to shove the hard evidence under José Mourinho’s nose to prove the Manchester United manager was wrong to question his commitment. “We don’t hold anything back, either for our clubs or on international duty, so injuries are going to come,” he roared.
1860 Munich face demotion to Germany’s fourth or fifth tier over an unpaid license and so majority stakeholder Hasan Ismaik wants to take action against Germany’s 50-plus-1 regulation, which limits the influence of external backers. Hmm … “I always said I appreciate the German laws and stick to them,” huffed the billionaire. “But we’ve come to a point where I say: It can’t go on like this.”
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
Welcome to the official start of summer: It’s the 2017 Bandinis!
From Liverpool paying £3.6m for Phil Babb to Manchester City frittering £42m on Eliaquim Mangala, Ed Aarons charts how and why the transfer fee for defenders has rocketed in recent years.
Paul MacInnes has done all the research on City’s new £35m goalkeeper Ederson so you don’t have to.
How Paderborn went from the top of the Bundesliga to three straight relegations.
Perhaps the German side should recruit Vítor Oliveira, a Portuguese manager who has won promotion for five seasons in a row.
Classic YouTube! Classic YouTube! Classic YouTube! This week: Cheick Tioté, Scotland 5-1 England and O’Rangers winning a dodgy penalty way back in 1945.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
The obvious reaction three games into an NBA finals the Golden State Warriors are almost certain to win is that Kevin Durant is the series MVP. After all, he is averaging 34 points and 10 rebounds a game and pulled out Game 3 for Golden State with a three-pointer that clinched the 118-113 victory over Cleveland. Most will say he is clearly the difference between the 2017 and 2016 finals, which the Cavaliers won in seven games.
But they forget that the Warriors also have Stephen Curry back.
The man who was considered the league’s best player two years running was not himself in last year’s playoffs. Part of this was because he sprained his knee early in the postseason and didn’t appear to be playing at full strength. But there was something else too, something that might have had more to do with the Warriors losing the finals than an aching knee: mentally, Curry wasn’t there.
This wasn’t something that got much attention as Golden State built up a 3-1 lead in last year’s championship round, and yet it was discussed around the team. Something was eating at Steph. At the time, sources told the Guardian that Curry was “distracted”: that the previous 13 months had become too much. And it’s little wonder: in that time he had won a title and two league MVPs, as well as adapted to a new level of fame and all the obligations and pressures that come with that.
While some great players are good at cutting out the chatter around them, Curry hates to let anyone down. “Steph’s a pleaser,” Bruce Fraser, the Warriors assistant coach closest to Curry, told the Guardian early in last year’s postseason. “He wants to please people, that’s an incredibly redeeming quality.”
But as Golden State struggled to get past Durant’s Oklahoma City Thunder in the Western Conference finals and then lost to the Cavaliers in the finals, some around the team worried that Curry was trying to please too many people and was draining himself. He still led the Warriors in scoring during the 2016 finals with 22.6 points a game, but averaged just 3.7 assists and never played with the joy he had in the previous two seasons. He appeared frustrated.
In these playoffs, however, that burden appears to have lifted, and Curry has been brilliant. Lost behind Durant’s excellent is Curry’s 28.7 points a game alongside 9 assists and 9.7 rebounds. Yes, the thinnest player on the floor is getting almost 10 rebounds a game. Quietly, he is having one of the great playoff runs in NBA history.
Undoubtedly the presence of Durant makes Curry and the other Warriors better. Durant forces the Cavs, who are not a good defensive team, to make choices over which Golden State star they will try to stop. He was huge in the late minutes of Wednesday’s Game 3 as the Warriors scored the final 11 points to steal Cleveland’s last real chance to get back in the series. His presence allows Golden State to survive Klay Thompson’s shooting slump in Game 1 and Draymond Green’s foul troubles. He makes the bench deeper and helped the Warriors endure the loss of coach Steve Kerr, who missed most of the playoffs with back problems.
Still, the Warriors should have won last year’s championship without Durant. Several times they stood on the brink of breaking the Cavs only to fall just short. Had Green not been suspended for Game 5 last year, or had center Andrew Bogut not gone down with a knee injury, Golden State probably would have won their second straight title and we’d be talking about a three-year run of championships. Durant helps a lot but the Warriors unselfish atmosphere that allowed Curry, Thompson and Green to thrive together also accepted the arrival of one the game’s top three players.
That culture, as anyone who has been around the Warriors will tell you, is Curry’s. At some level this remains his team. And when he is the Curry of old, Golden State are incredibly hard to beat. And so far this postseason, Curry has been the Curry of old. The enthusiasm has returned.
“Last season was a very unique year for a lot of different reasons and we learned a lot,” Curry said Wednesday night. “I think we have grown and matured just mentally of how to just pace yourself through this long year and take every day as a new experience and something that you can kind of take control of.”
He was speaking about the fatigue of following up a season in which his team won a record 73 regular season games, but he may well have been talking about himself. The drain of 2016 seems gone. Now the Warriors can break a new record and become the first NBA team to go 16-0 in the postseason.
Durant has been a tremendous in these finals and yet the Warriors’ biggest addition to this year’s title round might be that they have the old Steph Curry back again.
Paul Simpson has urged his England Under-20s to write their names into the history books after they became the first men’s team from these shores to reach a World Cup final since 1966. England play Venezuela in Sunday’s final after they came from behind to beat Italy 3-1 in the last four. Dominic Solanke, who is due to sign for Liverpool, scored either side of Ademola Lookman’s simple strike to propel Simpson’s side into the final in South Korea, with all three of their goals coming in the final 25 minutes. It is 51 years since England had a team in a major global football final, when Sir Alf Ramsey’s side beat West Germany at the old Wembley.
“It’s a dream to take a team to a World Cup final,” Simpson, the England Under-20s manager, said. “I was born in 1966 and that was the last time we did it. We’re delighted to be in it and I’ve said from the first day I am greedy and I want to go and win the final. I don’t just want to make the numbers up, We always thought we had a chance to go to the final. We’ve achieved that, but really we’ve achieved nothing yet because we have to go and win and put our name into the history books of English football.”
The spine of this England group has been neatly blossoming for some time. Freddie Woodman, Jonjoe Kenny, Lewis Cook, the captain, and Solanke helped England to the Under-17s European Championship title in Malta three years ago and last year they formed the nucleus of the team beaten by Italy in the semi-finals of the Under-19s European Championship.
England started brightly in Jeonju, earning an early corner after a surging Kenny run, but moments later they found themselves on the back foot and trailing. When Cook, the Bournemouth midfielder, was penalised for handball on the halfway line, Italy took England by surprise with a quick free-kick. Andrea Favilli lost his marker, Fikayo Tomori, and the Ascoli forward unselfishly picked out his strike partner Riccardo Orsolini, who fired his curling first-time effort beyond Woodman in the England goal.
Italy, though, failed to build upon their promising start and retreated deeper and deeper, happy to soak up England pressure. Yet there was only so long they could suffocate England’s attacking talents. Solanke twice went close to levelling before half-time, heading narrowly wide before forcing Andrea Zaccagno, the Italy goalkeeper, into a smart stop and Simpson’s side dominated large spells of the game but eventually they were rewarded for an excellent performance, with Kenny, the Everton full-back, and Liverpool’s forward Sheyi Ojo, a second-half substitute, particularly influential in giving England a cutting edge in the final third.
Ojo made an instant impact and struck a post with a fine, bending effort before his devious cross supplied Solanke, who reacted quickest in the box to finish coolly after 66 minutes. The 19-year‑old Ojo then sent in another cross from the right flank, which Everton’s Lookman, who calmly collected before smashing the ball low and beyond Zaccagno with 13 minutes left.
Italy were deflated but England continued to pour forward and added a third when Solanke struck ambitiously from 25 yards out. The forward, who will move to Anfield from Chelsea next month, saw promptly wheeled away after in celebration of capping England’s win after his powerful as effort slipped through the hands of Zaccagno, who failed to parry.
England’s best finish in this competition had been third in 1993, but now they have a chance to be crowned world champions in Suwon on Sunday against Venezuela, who had earlier prevailed on penalties against Uruguay in the other semi-final. Venezuela trailed to a 49th-minute penalty before Samuel Sosa equalised in added time, then won the shootout 4-3 after a goalless extra time.
It was a fine day for England’s youth sides. On Saturday the Young Lions will defend their Toulon Tournament title in France after beating Scotland 3-0 in the semi-finals, thanks to a Harvey Barnes double and an Elliot Embleton strike just hours after the Under-20s secured passage to the final.
The Stoppelkamp-Alle is a rather unusual boulevard that runs for precisely 82.3 metres in front of the Benteler-Arena, home of SC Paderborn 07. It was opened in October 2014, just weeks after the man who inspired it, Moritz Stoppelkamp, had scored the club’s most famous goal against Hannover 96, from the same distance. The goal came at a high point for the club, on the day they moved to the top of the Bundesliga for the first time in their history.
Less than three years later and Paderborn have fallen through the trapdoor, out of the third division into the Regionalliga and amateur football. Three relegations in three years: a feat never before “achieved” in professional German football. Paderborn put up a fight at the bitter end but by the time they started swinging it was already too late.
Or at least so it seemed, until 1860 Munich inadvertently did them a favour. Having been relegated from the second tier, 1860 Munich failed to stump up the €10m needed for a license to compete in the third division. Paderborn quickly stuffed their license application into an envelope, transferred the money to the DFB and now dare to hope that the backdoor to the third tier is still on the latch.
1860’s fate may rescue Paderborn but, even if they are allowed to start next season in the third tier, the club is still at rock bottom. Speaking after their final game of the season – a scoreless draw away at VfL Osnabrück – manager Steffen Baumgart made no excuses, saying they had simply failed. Parachuted in with only a handful of games to play in April, the former Hansa Rostock striker had a simple remit: halt the slide. The team picked 11 points in his five games in charge, so it is not his fault, but they still slipped over the precipice.
The club is currently swamped in gloom but the Paderborn story had been an uplifting one until very recently. The club’s roots date back to 1907 but they took on the name of SC Paderborn 07 in 1985, when three local sides merged together. Having spent most of their history in the Regionalliga, the club reached the second tier in 2005. Promotion ushered in a new era of prosperity and they established themselves as regulars in the second division, spending eight of the next nine seasons at that level.
The second tier in any country is generally unforgiving and unpredictable, with a handful of teams moving through the revolving doors at both ends. Clubs have to compete with lower-league upstarts who are charging up the tables, such as Hoffenheim and RB Leipzig, while fending off big-budget giants who have bellyflopped in from above – VfB Stuttgart and Hannover 96 last season, for example.
Despite the stiff competition, Paderborn made a couple of decent stabs at promotion to the top flight, finishing fifth in 2010 and 2012, before appointing freshly qualified coach André Breitenreiter for the start of the 2013-14 season. He helped them make history that season, when a second-place finish guaranteed promotion to the Bundesliga. Only a decade after playing in the Regionalliga, Paderborn were dining at the top table of German football.
Despite the euphoria and the confidence everyone had in Breitenreiter, Paderborn began the season among the favourites for the drop. The players, however, had no intention of playing with their old mates in the second division and began their maiden Bundesliga campaign with a bang. They went unbeaten in their first four games – including that 2-0 win over Hannover 96, the game still remembered for Stoppelkamp’s long-distance wonder strike – to go top of the league. They only stayed there for three days but reaching the summit of German football was something to sing about.
They had bolted out of the blocks but the mission was still to squeeze as much out of their early-season run as possible and survive. Next stop Munich and a 4-0 defeat. Welcome to the Bundesliga. Still, Breitenreiter’s team dusted themselves off and secured some decent results in the next few weeks, picking up another 11 points before the winter break to leave them relatively snug in 10th place at the halfway point of the season.
The winter break can slam the breaks on any momentum a club has built up and give rivals time to regroup and strengthen. Paderborn started 2015 sluggishly, quickly shedding the points reserve they had collected before Christmas, and they were soon flirting with the bottom three as the Bundesliga dream turned into the reality of a relegation fight.
They appeared to be sitting pretty in midtable but five of the eight teams below them were Stuttgart, Hamburg, Werder Bremen, Hertha Berlin and Jürgen Klopp’s Borussia Dortmund – all of whom were bound to improve. And so it came to pass. By Valentine’s Day, Hamburg and Bremen had leapfrogged them. And, by the time they had lost 6-0 at home to Bayern Munich, Paderborn were also watching Borussia Dortmund drift into the distance.
Suddenly things began to look serious. To their credit, they did not spend a second in the bottom three until the start of March – the problem was they only spent one week out of it after then, and not the final one. They fought for survival right up until the last day of the campaign but finished a point below 15th-place Hertha Berlin and went down. The dream was over and the nightmare was about to begin.
He had taken the club down but Breitenreiter’s good work had not been lost on the football world and he was appointed by Schalke. Markus Gellhaus took over as interim boss at Paderborn but he only lasted only until October, when Steffen Effenberg swapped giving his opinions in a TV studio to give instructions the touchline. Effenberg took over with the team already tumbling towards the bottom three but he did not lack confidence and said all the right things. He was typically bullish, batting away any talk of consecutive relegations. Effenberg, “the Tiger”, had been a winner in his playing career and hoped some of that mentality would rub off on his players in his first job in management.
It wasn’t to be. Less than five months down the line, Effenberg had only steered the club further into trouble, eventually being relieved of his duties with Paderborn in 17th place, already five points from safety. The new man, academy coach and former Paderborn player Rene Müller came in with 10 games to stop the unthinkable: back-to-back relegations. He won nine points in those 10 games and Paderborn finished bottom of the table.
Effenberg’s appointment had been nothing short of a disaster and Müller never really had a chance. Players were jumping ship and grabbing any lifeline they could, leaving the team was in constant flux, barely recognisable from the side that had performed so valiantly in the Bundesliga. After two relegations in a row, the club were in freefall.
They never really got going in the third division. Müller was sacked in November after a 6-0 defeat to Sportfreunde Lotte, a club competing in the third tier for the first time in their history, and his replacement, Stefan Emmerling, was already out the door by Easter. Paderborn were experiencing the now familiar slide towards the bottom of the league. They were fighting to stay in the Bundesliga pyramid – not just with the big boys, but on the map. If Baumgart been appointed just a few weeks earlier, they might just have managed it without the help of 1860 Munich.
Paderborn have likely been spared an arduous task. Coming back up from the fourth tier is very difficult. To have any chance of bouncing back into the third division, Paderborn would have needed to win the Regionalliga West outright. And, while there are three places in the third division up for grabs every season, they are split between the five regional leagues: Bavaria, Nord, Nordost, Südwest and West. Six teams go into the promotion play-offs – the champions of each league and the second-placed team from the league with the most clubs (this year it was Südwest) – where they play each other home and away for the golden ticket back into the bottom floor of the Bundesliga.
Paderborn have shown signs of life under Baumgart, who has committed himself to the club. Just days after their relegation, they lined up for the final of the Westfalenpokal, one of 21 regional cups that is effectively a qualifying tournament for the DFB Pokal, the German Cup. After serving up a season of misery and struggle for their fans, they were at least able to give them something to cheer about by winning the final 3-1.
Scant consolation maybe, but the victory and the funds that will come from appearing in next season’s DFB Pokal may just provide a touch of solid ground to halt the downward spiral. They will be even happier if and when the Bundesliga confirms that 1860 Munich have been demoted and their position in the third tier is secure. Regardless of which league Paderborn compete in next season, their fans will hope that the only way is up. And those walking the 82.3 metres down the Stoppelkamp Allee may be thinking “there but for the grace of God”.
• This article is from Englische Woche• Follow Englische Woche on Twitter
Australian tennis player Thanasi Kokkinakis is facing a court battle over his right to use his Special K nickname commercially.
A directions hearing between Kellogg’s, the breakfast cereal maker that owns the right to the Special K trademark in Australia, and Kokkinakis took place in the federal court in Adelaide on Thursday.
Kellogg’s wants to stop the 21-year-old from using the term Special K as part of a branding campaign that would include clothing and tennis wear, the Adelaide Advertiser says.
“Special K is obviously an iconic cereal brand for Kellogg’s in Australia,” a spokeswoman for the company’s Australian division told the newspaper.
Justice Brigitte Markovic sent the case to a mediation conference in August. She also allowed Kellogg’s extra time to amend its statement of claim and for Kokkinakis to file a defence. The case will return to the federal court on 31 August.
The company’s Australian trademark for Special K dates back 59 years, but the cereal first appeared on the US market in 1955. Throughout its history it has been marketed as a low-fat, low-sugar breakfast targeted at dieters.
Kokkinakis has endured a frustrating run with injuries over the past two years and fell outside the world top 1,000. At one point, he managed only one top-level singles match in 20 months. He admitted last week that the prolonged period on the sidelines had emotionally drained him. “It’s been shit-house,” Kokkinakis said.
The sportsman returned to action during the French Open this week. Playing with a protected ranking of 81, he took the first set from world No 8 Kei Nishikori in their first-round singles encounter, but the Australian ended up losing in four sets.
It’s not how, it’s how many. Australia were far from their best against Saudi Arabia in Adelaide on Thursday night but they did enough to earn the three points that keep alive their hopes for automatic qualification for Russia 2018.
Two poacher’s goals from Tomi Juric and a screamer from Tom Rogic papered over the cracks of the latest unflattering performance from the Asian Cup holders. Despite scoring inside five minutes, Australia were lucky to be level at half-time, and despite dominating the second term they failed to secure the two-goal cushion that would have seen them leapfrog their Group B opponents on goal difference.
Ange Postecoglou deserves great credit for extracting a much improved second-half performance after a skittish opening term. At the interval Australia were second best and short of options, by the final whistle they could savour a job done, if not necessarily well done.
But for all the praise the coach deserves for his interventions, questions remain about the quality of this iteration of his national side. Notably, the back three again looked unsuited to the task and the attacking set-up lacked the craft and flow of their opponents.
Everything began perfectly. Tomi Juric’s beautifully taken opener rewarded his and his team’s early industry. Whenever a white shirt took possession two or more golden ones immediately swarmed in unison like a gang of pick-pockets. This was the training ground brought to matchday; Ange’s archetype, relentless without the ball and composed with it.
But in the blink of an eye that vim evaporated. The early goal failed to live up to its cliche and instead of settling the confidence of the hosts and forcing the visitors to overreach, it somehow sucked the life out of Australia’s press and the Saudis took control.
The purposeful harrying in the middle and final thirds was replaced by ball-watching and an inability to disrupt play. The equaliser on 22 minutes came as no surprise but the ease with which Australia’s midfield and defence was sliced open by a series of neat passes still exasperated. There was no tackle, no professional foul and no tracking of the runners. It was an indictment on the defensive mindset. Mark Milligan’s value grew in absentia.
The next phase was torturous. Saudi Arabia could have scored three and should have bagged at least one as Australia pondered in possession and looked unable or unwilling to adapt in transition or take the game on in broken play.
Plan A – used agonisingly often to reset – involved Trent Sainsbury, in front of his own D, feeding Aaron Mooy who then looked for Tom Rogic. It seldom worked and around them there was a lack of appetite or freedom of thought to interpret the game on the run. Time and again in this increasingly long and winding road to Russia players have declined opportunities to take responsibility. Again in Adelaide there were too many passengers and too few influencers. Everything productive Australia tried had the fingerprints of Rogic or Mooy on it. They cannot be relied upon to deliver indefinitely.
Rogic was excellent on his return to the side and his goal lit up the night. Jackson Irvine was anonymous alongside him in his advanced midfield role and his lack of impact highlighted the benefit to this system of someone like James Troisi, one of this country’s few risk takers. Troisi is a low-percentage option, shooting often and scoring rarely, but he brings an impetus to games, an unpredictability that such a predictable team could benefit from.
Defensively Saudi Arabia were a shambles, conceding two poor goals and at risk throughout of shipping more, but going forward their nimble combinations were everything Postecoglou’s sides aspire to be. Yahia Al Shehri, Mohammed Al Sahlawi and Salem Al Dawsari in particular all displayed excellent technique allied with a game awareness that allowed them to keep the ball moving with one touch, probing space, keeping defenders on the turn.
Postecoglou has stated, admirably, that he is not managing a team whose intention is merely to qualify for the World Cup, but to go to Russia and win it. On current form, that remains wishful thinking, but you have to be in it to win it, and a second win in a row after four spirit-sapping draws, is not to be sneezed at. Next up, the small matter of Japan away.
This might have been another year of European heartbreak for Juventus, but domestically it was the same old story. The Bianconeri won Serie A for the sixth consecutive season, and collected their third straight Coppa Italia as well. No team had ever won either trophy so many times in succession. They have made the unprecedented look routine.
And yet, this season was not lacking in drama. To the contrary, there was something wild about this campaign right from the start. There were 32 goals scored (not to mention three red cards) on the opening weekend alone. The final tally of 2.96 per game was highest among Europe’s top five leagues.
Quantity is not synonymous with quality, and the gulf between Serie A’s haves and have nots has rarely appeared more stark. Yet there was scintillating football to be found outside of a Juventus team that fell one game short of the treble. Roma and Napoli each broke the 90-goal mark while setting club-record points tallies for a top-flight campaign.
Despite finishing third, the Partenopei might have been the most entertaining team in all of Europe. A side that began the season fretting about how to replace Gonzalo Higuaín first discovered Arkadiusz Milik, and then unleashed Dries Mertens into a new centre-forward role. We called him a ‘false nine’ to begin with. Thirty-six goals later: not so much.
Then there was Atalanta, a defiant example of what can be achieved with a well-run academy and a dash of trust. Lazio sparkled under Simone Inzaghi before an end-of-season fade. Torino gave us helter-skelter entertainment and a breakout season for the prolific Andrea Belotti.
Some of the best stories, though, unfolded at clubs further down the standings. This season will be remembered for Crotone’s miraculous escape – claiming 20 points from their last nine games after previously having scraped together just 14 in 29. Over at Sampdoria, lifelong fan Christian Puggioni went from third-choice goalkeeper to dominating the Derby della Lanterna at 35 years old.
And how about Fabio Pisacane, The Guardian’s inaugural Player of the Year in 2016? Paralysed by Guillain-Barré syndrome at 14, then feted for reporting a director’s attempt to fix a third-tier match in 2011, he finally made his top-flight debut in September. His tears at the end of that 3-0 win over Atalanta were an abiding image of this campaign.
It was a season of farewells – from Francesco Totti to Silvio Berlusconi, but also one for new beginnings. Giovanni Simeone emulated his dad, Diego, with an iconic headed goal against Juventus. Moise Kean became the first player born this century to score in one of Europe’s top-five leagues, and then was trumped by the even-younger Pietro Pellegri.
If those were the positives, then we must also acknowledge some of the negatives. Senad Lulic avoided a racism charge for suggesting that Antonio Rudger had been “selling socks and belts” before he came to Roma, but many perceived a malicious undertone to his words. The Italian Football Federation then drew international condemnation for its initial failure to support Sulley Muntari when he walked off the pitch in protest at abusive chants in May.
Although the player’s suspension was eventually rescinded, the lack of coherence on such matters is dispiriting. If Juve’s hegemony on the pitch has become predictable, then so has the absence of strong leadership from Italian football’s governing bodies off of it.
Just call him Diego Armando Mertens. Or, actually, don’t, because he’s really not keen on those comparisons to Maradona. But do recognise that Dries Mertens has had an astonishing season at Napoli, adapting to his new centre-forward role with such ease that it is tempting to wonder how nobody thought to try him there sooner.
Drafted in to replace the injured Milik, the Belgian took a few games to hit his stride, but by December he was flying. Mertens followed up a hat-trick against Cagliari by sticking four past Torino a week later. His eventual tally of 28 league goals came at a rate of one for every 91.6 minutes played. He finished one strike behind Edin Dzeko in the race to become Capocannoniere, despite starting five fewer games.
Nor were goals the sum of his contribution. We can debate the semantics of whether or not he should still be called a ‘false nine’ (he believes that he has done enough to shed such a label) but in practical terms he was effective both playing off the shoulder of the last defender and dropping deep to direct play.
Napoli’s 2-1 win away to Milan was a case in point, Mertens providing both assists – the first a brilliant no-look pass, and the second a slick through-ball round the back of Davide Calabria to Lorenzo Insigne. Above all, from one week to another, Mertens just looked like a man who was having way too much fun.
He is the first to acknowledge the contribution of his team-mates to his success. Insigne, José Callejón and Marek Hamsik all had excellent seasons, as did a rotating cast of midfielders. It was Mertens, though, who shone the brightest. Who would have imagined, last summer, that this was the man to make Napoli forget about Higuaín?
5) There were not as many true overhead strikes in Serie A as we have seen in some recent campaigns (probably because Mauricio Pinilla was playing less often), but Andrea Conti pulled one out for Atalanta against Genoa …
4) It’s not just the smoothness of Mauro Zárate’s first-time finish, but the quality of the ball from Federico Bernardeschi that made this goal against Napoli so special (that said, Lorenzo Insigne’s finish in the same game wasn’t half bad, either) …
3) Did he mean it? Maradona reckoned that Mertens was only trying to cross the ball, rather than chip Joe Hart during his one-man demolition of Torino. Personally, I don’t really care …
2) Simone Verdi pays tribute to Marco van Basten …
1) Patrik Schick pays homage to Dennis Bergkamp …
Manuel Locatelli’s first Milan goal only narrowly missed the shortlist above. His second, a match-winner against Juventus two games later wasn’t far behind. These were the teenager’s first two shots on target ever in Serie A.
Joe Hart was named as ‘John’ on the team-sheet for his first game at Torino, and wound up conceding a goal from a misjudged punch. Regrettably, despite winning the adoration of his club’s fans, there were one or two more mishaps to come (hough, for the record, he did have his brighter moments in a Torino shirt, too).
Taken in isolation, Pepe Reina’s save from Diego Perotti this March was sensational. The keeper somehow reversed his momentum in a fraction of a second when the ball deflected off Kalidou Koulibaly right in front of him, tipping it on to the post before hooking the rebound away from another attacker with his leg. Context only makes the stop even more special. This was the 93rd minute, with Napoli defending a 2-1 lead at the Stadio Olimpico, where they had not earned a point in five years. This time, they held on to take all three.


In a season of seven, eight and even 10-goal thrillers, there is no shortage to choose from. But I’m going with Fiorentina’s 3-3 draw with Napoli just before Christmas. Twice the Partenopei had their noses in front, but in the end they were happy to scrape a point after Federico Bernardeschi turned things around with a sensational solo performance – evoking memories of great Fiorentina No10s such as Roberto Baggio and Giancarlo Antognoni.
After scoring twice, he set up a third for Zárate – a goal which, as you’ve already seen, made it into my shortlist for the best of the season. So did Insigne’s opener for Napoli. This was one of those days when the quality did match the quantity after all.
Gianluigi Donnarumma; Dani Alves, Leonardo Bonucci, Mattia Caldara, Alex Sandro; Felipe Anderson, Radja Nainggolan, Marek Hamsik, Lorenzo Insigne; Dries Mertens, Edin Dzeko.
Subs: Gigi Buffon, Andrea Conti, Federico Fazio, Kevin Strootman, Sergej Milinkovic-Savic, José Callejón, Mohamed Salah, Federico Bernardeschi, Andrea Belotti, Paulo Dybala, Gonzalo Higuaín, Diego Falcinelli. NB: Yes, 12 subs are permitted in Serie A. No, I haven’t picked a very balanced bench. But, boy, when we need a goal in the 90th minute …
This was the toughest decision of the lot, for me, because I can see four or five outstanding candidates. Davide Nicola did an astonishing job to keep Crotone afloat, maintaining his belief that survival was achievable even when all evidence suggested otherwise. He transmitted that same conviction to his players, but also knew how to keep the mood light in the face of adversity. Eight points adrift in late March, he took them to train on the beach.
At the top of the table, Massimiliano Allegri again demonstrated that he is one of the best managers in the world. It was not a given that Juventus would proceed seamlessly after losing Paul Pogba. And yet, they led from start to finish.
Indeed, Allegri imposed a major tactical reshuffle despite his team still sitting top of the table after a defeat to Fiorentina in January – finding a formation that allowed him to get Gonzalo Higuaín, Paulo Dybala, Miralem Pjanic, Mario Mandzukic, and Juan Cuadrado into the starting XI all at the same time. In doing so, he galvanised his players and pushed them to reach another level – both at home and abroad.
Maurizio Sarri also deserves credit for the way he remodelled his team’s approach to suit Dries Mertens, as does Simone Inzaghi for his work at Lazio. In the end, though, I think this award has to go to Gian Piero Gasperini.
It’s not just that he led Atalanta to fourth, their best-ever top-flight finish, but the manner in which he did it. He had inherited a bloated squad and lost four of his first five league games in charge, but thereafter put his faith in youth. Gasperini picked four Italy Under-21 internationals against Napoli in October and emerged with a 1-0 victory. He never looked back.
For such a young side, Atalanta showed remarkable resilience. Roberto Gagliardini, one of the most eye-catching performers during their pre-Christmas surge, was sold to Inter in January, and yet his former team-mates kept on winning all the same.
Together with breakout stars like Gagliardini, Mattia Caldara, Franck Kessié and Andrea Conti, Gasperini was also getting the best out of his veterans. Papu Gómez was reinvented as, in the player’s words, “a false second striker”, and went on to produce the best season of his career.
It is enough to think that Atalanta had already smashed their top-flight points record when they still had nine games left to go. As one front page headline on L’Eco di Bergamo put it, the whole story was “Bonkers, incredible, but marvellously true.”
The farewell tribute to Silvio Berlusconi from San Siro’s Curva Sud turned out to be a few weeks premature, but was astonishing in its scale. It’s fair to say that the man himself was satisfied.
Leonardo Bonucci’s oldest son, Lorenzo, was the one person looking glum at Juventus’s title celebrations. Understandable, really, since he supports Torino.
Bonucci Sr, who made up for that ordeal by taking Lorenzo to meet favourite player, Andrea Belotti, a week later.
Honourable mention: Papu Gómez, teaching his four-year-old son Bautista tough life lessons with a savage two-footed challenge on the beach.
Whoever it was that signed off on Udinese wearing their black-and-white striped shirts away to Atalanta – who wear blue-and-black. The visitors wound up having to smother their tops in tape to mitigate the clash.
Dries Mertens, out for a walk.
OK, so technically Roberto Mancini was never actually involved in this Serie A season, having left Inter before it began, but his response to speculation about Mauro Icardi’s future last July still bears recalling. “I don’t read newspapers or websites,” he insisted. “And I don’t watch pay-TV, if not for the odd porno.”
Finding out what weird and wonderful design Papu Gómez would be wearing on his left bicep this season was a weekly treat. He celebrated everything from Halloween to the movie Frozen, but most iconic was his tribute to the original Pro Evolution Soccer Master League XI.
La fascia da capitano del Papu Gomez per @acmilan - @Atalanta_BCNON CE LA FACCIO. TROPPI RICORDI pic.twitter.com/I7wB2QJiw3
Papu again, obviously.
Ciro Immobile, and his PlayStation.
Patrice Evra has moved on to Marseille, but not before he brought us this moment of surreal Instagram joy.
Luciano Spalletti, strolling into his press conference after Roma’s 4-1 win over Palermo only to be immediately confronted with a question about the negative atmosphere around the club (see also: We Will Rock You edit).
Gianluigi Donnarumma celebrated his 18th birthday in style with an edible San Siro.
Perhaps the greatest mystery of this season is how Mauro Icardi – Inter’s captain, no less – managed to publish an autobiography in which he bragged about being able to bring over “100 criminals from Argentina” to kill hostile Ultras without someone at the club pointing out that this probably wasn’t a very clever idea.
I don’t know how much more there is to say on Francesco Totti, but it would be wrong to sign off without a final thought for one of the most iconic and brilliant footballers of my lifetime. Certain fixed images of him will live long in the memory – of stunts and selfies, of that cucchiaio against Inter and of course the 2001 Scudetto.
Most of all, though, what I will remember Totti is the simple pleasure of the little touches, the elegance in possession and the complicated passes made simple. He is one of those footballers who was so much more than can be told by any curated highlights package. To watch him in the flesh was to see this sport played in a whole different way.
He truly loved it, too. Indeed, his reluctance to announce a permanent retirement suggests he still does. If there is an iconic image of Totti to be taken from this season, it was not that of him crying at his farewell address but rather of him warming up all alone during an 80-minute rain delay during Roma’s win over Sampdoria in September.
His team-mates were all inside sheltering. Totti just wanted to play. And so he did, coming off the bench to set up an equalising goal and then convert the match-winning spot-kick.
“Totti builds the ark, drives away the clouds, creates a rainbow and scores the penalty,” gushed Maurizio Crosetti in La Repubblica at the time. “Superstar and demiurge, and now a meteorologist, theologian and philosopher as well. Yes, the hurricane will end. Yes, there is life beyond life. Yes, immortality exists.”
Perhaps, but that is not the same as saying you can play on forever. Totti’s time had come, as indeed had that of Silvio Berlusconi at Milan. He, too, in a very different way, has been an icon of Italian football. Love him or loathe him, it was he who presided over the most successful era in the club’s history, a three-decade long stretch in which they won five Champions League titles and, for a time, called themselves “the most titled club in the world”.
No other team in Italy has ever enjoyed such success on an international stage. Whether Milan will ever do so again remains to be seen. This summer offers intrigue as both they and neighbours Inter press ahead under Chinese owners with apparently ambitious spending plans. They hope that this time next year, we will not be talking about the same old story atop Serie A yet again.
“I was in demand,” remembered Phil Babb. “I was on holiday and every other day I was reading the papers and I was going here, there and everywhere.”
Back in 1994, the player who was once rejected by his local club Millwall appeared to have the world at his feet. Fresh from his exploits for Republic of Ireland at the World Cup in the United States, Babb joined Liverpool on 1 September for £3.6m – a then British record fee for a defender. The very next day he was joined at Anfield by Wimbledon’s John Scales for £3.5m as Roy Evans set about attempting to transform the fortunes of a team who had conceded 55 goals in finishing eighth the previous season.
More than two decades have passed since then but, once more, Liverpool find themselves on the lookout for premium defensive reinforcements following a campaign that saw them concede more goals than any of the other top-four sides. But whereas more than a few eyebrows were raised in 1994 when Evans shelled out more than £7m for two centre-halves, the changing landscape of the modern transfer market means his successor was contemplating making Virgil van Dijk the most expensive defender in history until they were forced into a dramatic climbdown on Wednesday after being accused by Southampton of tapping him up.
Klopp must now find an alternative – and quickly – in an environment that saw Manchester City shell out £47.5m on John Stones last August and looks as if it will become more frenzied as the summer goes on.
“I don’t think they will ever be the same level as the strikers but the amount clubs are prepared to pay for outstanding defenders has certainly increased,” says Scales, who stayed at Anfield for only two seasons before moving to Tottenham. “The number of clubs at the top of the Premier League that had defensive problems last season shows there is a lack of depth in that area and that helps to drive up the price for those few that there are.
“There’s clearly a lack of top-class defenders who are available and clubs are prepared to pay ever more to get them, so that inflates the price. When you have Sunderland earning £100m for finishing bottom of the table then it shows just how much money teams have got to spend now. Add to that all the other teams from Europe’s top leagues and it quickly drives the prices up.”
David Luiz remains the costliest defender of all time after his £50m move from Chelsea to Paris Saint-Germain in 2014. That ranks only 14th in the overall list but after several higher bids were received by Napoli last summer for the Senegal defender Kalidou Koulibaly, it seems a matter of time before that is broken.
“It’s a cliche but a player is worth what a club is prepared to pay for him,” says Scales, who works for the English Schools FA and as a pundit for Sky Sports’ coverage of the Eredivisie. “It’s very difficult to weigh up all the factors that must be considered but one of the most important things for a defender is maturity. There are exceptions to the rule but generally you want a defender who has three or four years more experience than a younger player.
“Attacking-wise you can take more of a risk to allow them to develop their talent in a slightly less pressurised way because you’re rotating them more until they have established themselves properly. A club will have more options offensively so some of them can be taken out of the firing line much more easily than expensive defenders that you’re buying to go in there and form a unit. You need that maturity and physical development to be able to do that because if you make a mistake it usually leads to a goal.”
Since the purchase of Eliaquim Mangala for an eye-watering £42m in August 2014, City have been particularly wasteful in their pursuit of a high-class defender to partner Vincent Kompany. Nicolás Otamendi arrived the following summer for £34m, meaning that the purchase of Stones took their outlay past the £120m mark and Pep Guardiola is thought to be weighing up a new approach for the France defender Aymeric Laporte from Athletic Bilbao, who has a €65m release clause. Meanwhile, Manchester United could surpass the £30m they paid for Eric Bailly last summer with the signing of Victor Lindelof from Benfica or to bring back their youth-team product Michael Keane from Burnley.
In terms of value for money, they may be better served taking a punt on one of the young Ajax defenders who performed so admirably in their run to the Europa League final. Matthijs de Ligt does not turn 18 until August but the Holland international has been tipped in his homeland to be the first £100m defender, and the Colombian Davinson Sánchez has been linked with Barcelona in recent weeks. According to Scales, however, things are never that simple.
“You’ve got to be wary of the Dutch League because the pace of the game isn’t as intense as the top leagues and players need time and space to adapt to moving up a level,” he says. “Having said that, if you’ve got the talent like both of them have then you have a great chance.
“The problem is you never know how they are going to do until they are thrown into the next level. Looking at the personality and mentality of the players is sometimes more important than their playing ability. That’s why it is so crucial that clubs do their due diligence properly.”
1. David Luiz, £50m Chelsea to Paris Saint-Germain, 2014
2. John Stones, £47.5m Everton to Manchester City, 2016
3. Eliaquim Mangala, £42m Porto to Manchester City, 2014
4. Shkodran Mustafi, £35m Valencia to Arsenal, 2016
5. Nicolás Otamendi, £34m Valencia to Manchester City, 2015
While I’m prepared to deal with the real world from time to time, as occasion demands, there are days when I’m particularly grateful for the diversion provided by the world of horse racing. For reasons that you can doubtless divine, this is one of those days and perhaps you, like me, will be delighted to see an absorbing Sandown card scheduled for this evening.
Of course, it would have been more absorbing if the nap, Utopian Dream, hadn’t become a non-runner because of a high temperature. Alas for John Gosden’s filly. But there’s still 12-1 about Envoy (7.00), which seems just a bit mad to me in light of his maiden success last month, his first outing since being gelded in the autumn.
This is a big horse who might reasonably be expected to do much better now than in his first couple of juvenile outings and indeed his return to action was a big improvement on what went before. He will also be well suited by some rain-softened ground.
His opening mark looks pretty reasonable to me and I can only think he is such a big price because he’s trained by James Eustace in a race featuring some more fashionable trainers. But the upside on Envoy is about as promising as anything else I can see in the race.
On To Victory (7.35) is proving more popular at 9-4 in the following race. From the Eve Johnson Houghton yard which is contriving to stay below most radars while winning plenty of races, he got off the mark in his first handicap a fortnight ago, beating a Clive Cox favourite. On To Victory is 8lb higher against a couple of unexposed types but the extra quarter-mile looks like good news and, again, he is proven on ground with some cut.
The pick of the prices this afternoon might be 14-1 about Boots And Spurs (3.30) at Ripon. He’s on a pretty serious losing run since last summer but came within inches of ending it at Thirsk two runs ago, on soft, and things didn’t work out so well for him last time. Back on ground with some cut, he can go well again and Franny Norton is quite an encouraging booking.
Ripon 2.00 Sandie Gem 2.30 Springforth 3.00 Sands Chorus 3.30 Boots And Spurs 4.00 Reinstorm 4.30 Liquid Gold 5.00 Callaghan
Haydock 2.10 American Craftsman 2.40 Seyaady 3.10 Supersymmetry 3.40 Viva Verglas 4.10 Mac O’Polo 4.40 With Hindsight
Bangor 2.20 Mister Universum 2.50 Murray Mount 3.20 Western Miller 3.50 Iora Glas 4.20 Solix 4.50 Gleno
Sandown 6.00 Glaceon 6.30 Utopian Dream (nap) 7.00 Envoy (nb) 7.35 On To Victory 8.05 Your Ladyship 8.40 Ejayteekay
Carlisle 6.10 Wirral Girl 6.40 Ajwan 7.10 Cartavio 7.45 Pilgrim’s Treasure 8.20 Rainbow Rebel 8.50 Mustaqbal 9.20 Reinforced
David Warner, the Australia vice-captain, has questioned whether his board truly want them to beat England at Edgbaston on Saturday given the release of a video during the week that has proved a major setback in the continuing contract dispute.
Cricket Australia and the Australian Cricketers’ Association are at loggerheads over the proposed end to the revenue-sharing model that has been in place for 20 years, and with a 30 June deadline approaching before their contracts expire – after which players would be free agents – time is running out for a new memorandum of understanding (MoU) to be agreed.
The two parties had recently resumed talks about a possible end to the impasse, only for the board’s lead negotiator, the executive general manager, Kevin Roberts, to release a video on Wednesday in which he described the current system – one the players want to keep – as “unbalanced and unsustainable” when it comes to the funding of grassroots cricket.
It prompted the ACA to hit out at “half-truths” from Cricket Australia and, with Steve Smith’s senior men’s side in all likelihood needing to beat England to progress to the Champions Trophy semi-finals – Eoin Morgan’s side are already through after winning the Group A – the timing of this video, believes Warner, is poorly judged.
“At the end of the day we’re here to win and if Cricket Australia want to try and help us win I think they wouldn’t be releasing videos like that,” said Warner, who has previous suggested his team-mates could even strike during the Ashes series at the end of the year. “We have an important game coming up this week and that is our focus and the MoU can wait until after the game and the tournament. But from where we sit as players it’s been the same as we’ve always said: 100% support of the ACA to get to the table with CA.
“For us we’re just sticking here together as one and all the players around the country and as we’ve said we just want a fair share but leave it until after the games.”
Under their proposed new system there are improved terms for female players at state and international level but, while the international men will also be better off under a capped system, it separates them from the domestic players, who will be relatively worse off. At present all professional male players share a fixed 20% of the revenue.
Speaking before her team’s departure for the upcoming World Cup in England, the captain of the Australia women’s team, Meg Lanning, said: “All the players are behind a revenue-share model for all cricketers, and we’ve been able to stay really strong and we’ll continue to do that and hopefully there’s a resolution pretty soon.”
Lanning and Smith requested in writing in February that the board deal solely with their union – a request that has been ignored, with the latest video from Roberts one of two in recent weeks, to go with emails sent directly to the elite players that included an offer of multiyear central contracts.
Ederson made sure he left Benfica for Manchester City with a bang. In the goalkeeper’s penultimate league match for the Portuguese champions, not only did he keep his 17th clean sheet of the season, he also got an assist.
A goal-kick from the 23-year-old led to Benfica’s second goal in a 5-0 defeat of Vitória Guimarães. It was a kick that found the forward Raúl Jiménez on the edge of the Vitória penalty area, the Mexican controlling it with his feet before turning it into the goal with his head. But not only was Ederson’s kick enormous, it was clever. It took advantage of the fact that his forward, dallying so far upfield, could not be found offside from a keeper’s dead ball. It is a little-known rule but understandable; after all, who is going to kick it that far anyway?
Prowess with the ball at his feet is thought to be a central reason why Pep Guardiola has made Ederson, depending on how you interpret historical exchange rates, either the most or the second most expensive goalkeeper in history. It is an incredible accolade either way, given that the record is held by Gianluigi Buffon, perhaps the greatest goalkeeper of all time. It is even more impressive when you consider Ederson has played only a season and a half as a regular at a major club.
The Brazilian played as a youth for his hometown club of São Paulo, before Benfica took him to Portugal at the age of 16. Not uncommonly, the move did not work out and the teenager moved on, first joining the second-division side Ribeirão then Rio Ave. His performances with the Primeira Liga minnows persuaded Benfica they had made a mistake. The club brought Ederson back in a deal that cost them only €500,000 up front but granted Rio 50% of any future transfer fee (20% of which, in a not entirely surprising development, then goes to Ederson’s agent, Jorge Mendes).
Ederson arrived as understudy to his fellow countryman Júlio César, but when César was injured in March 2016 the younger man seized the gloves and never gave them back. His performances in domestic competition have been consistently assured but it was his display against Borussia Dortmund that got Europe’s elite talking.
Eventually humbled 4-0 in the return leg at the Westfalenstadion, Benfica won the first leg 1-0, but they would have lost that too were it not for the Brazilian. The standout moment was a penalty save from Pierre-Emerick Aubemayang. Ederson not only out-thought the striker by staying on his feet as the ball flew down the centre of the goal, but he completed the save with a club of a punch that drove the ball clear of goal.
This was the second penalty that Ederson had saved in the competition but it was far from his only moment in the match. His speed of movement denied Ousmane Dembélé a goal from six yards out and the length of his reach allowed him to turn a Marco Reus 25-yard effort round a post. Best of all was a save from Christian Pulisic. The American’s fierce volley from outside the penalty area took two deflections but still Ederson found a strong hand to turn it wide. Within a month, the Portuguese press reported that Guardiola had made a personal call to Ederson to persuade him to come to City.
“Ederson has all the talent to become a top-class goalkeeper,” says Vitor Alvarenga, editor of the Portuguese magazine Maisfutebol. “The special ability that made Guardiola pay attention is that he is very strong with his feet, but Ederson also has not only the agility of a great keeper but the security too. I believe he will soon be the No1 keeper with Brazil.”
All the noises are that Ederson will soon graduate to the Brazil team. This, combined with his age, his footballing ability and the fact he recently renewed his Benfica contract, has meant his price is high.
Paradoxically, given the travails of City’s last big-money goalkeeping recruit, Claudio Bravo, it is Ederson’s confidence on the ball that could be his weak spot, says Alvarenga. “The risk is that he has to show he can cope with the pressure of a top league. In the Primeira Liga, he is facing minor teams 80% of the time. Ederson has a great game with his feet but in some matches he has shown overconfidence. He will have to learn how to be able to control that.”
When Ian McGeechan coached the Lions in New Zealand in 1993 his policy with the media was simple: say nothing in a polite way. He knew, even at a time when the Lions were a rugby entity rather than the commercial juggernaut they have become, that a difficult tour would become onerous if the tourists generated negative headlines through a word or two out of place.
Have a quiet word with him afterwards, as you were able to in those days, and you were given something more sustaining than gruel, but on top table, in front of New Zealand journalists, he would be like Geoffrey Boycott, dropping his bat to loaded questions and returning them gently to his inquisitors.
McGeechan was circumspect in Australia and South Africa, not wanting to incite a media agenda, but especially so in New Zealand where questions tended to be more technical and rugby-oriented. As a Kiwi, Warren Gatland knew what to expect on this tour, but even he was surprised at the persistent questions this week, before the defeat to the Blues, about the physical, confrontational gameplan he has employed with Wales this decade, caught on recording devices making a whispered aside at the end of one media conference.
The subject became live after Saturday’s opener against the New Zealand Provincial Barbarians, where an expected comfortable victory turned into one where the Lions were grateful to kick the ball into touch at the end, and a disdainful comment made by the New Zealand head coach, Steve Hansen, about Gatland’s favoured style of play in his long coaching career.
Never mind that the Lions hardly rolled Warrenball in Whangarei where they played in the first half as they should in the second and vice versa, taking liberties before the game was won. They sought space rather than contact but a number of factors, not least untried combinations, skilful opponents, unforced errors and a rusty scrum-half undermined them. It was only when they went back to basics that they pulled ahead.
Hansen’s remarks were more complimentary than insulting and clearly self-serving. The underlying message seemed to be that he would rather the Lions try to take on the All Blacks at their own game, which is regarded as throwing the ball around and taking risks, than have them play for territory and drive through the forwards, exposing his players to a game they are not familiar with.
Not that New Zealand leave too much to chance. The Lions attack coach, Rob Howley, who had been kept away from the media since the announcement of the squad until Tuesday, talked about how in training they are trying to produce rugby chaos, uninhibited and unstructured play, but that is not the All Blacks, who combine deliberation with skill, pace and precision.
New Zealand sides tend to score their tries from set pieces, taking advantage of the 20-metre gap between backs at the lineout and 10 at the scrum to create space out wide by passing with alacrity, off-loading, kicking and turnovers. And a few interceptions. They do not see much reward in multi-phase moves, and the Lions’ travails in Auckland, when they failed to turn possession into tries, showed why.
A productive tactic of Gatland’s Wales earlier this decade was to get ball from the top of the lineout quickly into the hands of Jamie Roberts for the centre to smash his way over the gainline, take out any number of defenders and set up quick ruck ball.
Successful teams now, like New Zealand and Saracens, see the lineout as a licence to score tries by exploiting space rather than sending a juggernaut on a rumble. The Wales way, as it was with the scrum, witness the 2013 Six Nations decider against England, was to use it first as a means of gaining a penalty.
The ploy was devised at a time when the pace of the game was slower and attacking teams were given less latitude at the breakdown by referees. For all their battering of England in 2013, Wales only scored two tries, both in the final quarter, but more are needed now. When the Lions captain, Sam Warburton, said this week that his side would need to score at least 20 points to beat the All Blacks, he was out of date: that amount would have been enough to defeat them only seven times in 94 Tests this decade; 30 points would only have been enough 45% of the time.
For all the talk this week about Warrenball and boshing, the Test series will be defined at least as much by how the Lions cope in defence against an attacking style seen infrequently in Europe, and almost never in the Six Nations. Organised chaos is one way of putting it with the chaotic usually referring to the defence, again as the Lions found five minutes from the end in Auckland when they conceded a try out of the Super Rugby playbook.
The Barbarians gave the Lions a taste in Whangarei, so quick to detect opportunity, but they lacked the pedigree of the teams that were to follow, starting with the Blues, the runt of the Super Rugby litter, the New Zealand equivalent of the Premiership’s Gloucester or the Pro12’s own Blues, Cardiff.
It was a clash of styles: the set-piece superiority of the Lions against the ball-handling skills and opportunism of the Blues. The Lions were more coordinated than they had been on Saturday and they tried to play with continuity, but they were exposed to a game that is foreign to the Six Nations and not prevalent in any of the major leagues in Europe: the skill of the Blues, who had three tries ruled out on review, trumped power.
Why did Joe Schmidt, a New Zealander, all but outlaw the offload after taking charge of Ireland? Why did Gatland, another Kiwi, adopt a rigid gameplan with Wales having lamented, like Graham Henry before him, that innate talent was not complemented by basic skills such as passing? Because they recognised that players in Europe were generally less skilful and intuitive than in New Zealand and so they played to the strength of their charges. Eddie Jones has spent most of his time in charge of England talking about the need for players to take more decisions, appreciating that unless they are able to produce plays such as the one that won the match for the Blues, they will struggle to wrest the World Cup off the All Blacks.
Attacks on Warrenball are misdirected: it is the game as a whole in Europe, starting with the complacent Six Nations which bills itself as the greatest tournament in the world, which it will only have a chance of becoming if countries start finding tickets hard to sell, that is being questioned.
A common excuse for conservatism in the Six Nations in the opening rounds is the weather. It rained in Auckland, but the adventure of the home side was not dampened. It is what New Zealand know now, but in 1971 it was the Lions who attacked with aplomb and the All Blacks who were direct and predictable.
At least the Lions will be well prepared for the All Blacks, but they are taking aim at a moving target. They repaired faults after the opening game, clearing out harder at the breakdown to secure quicker ball and reading kicks quicker, but new ones were exposed.
It is the New Zealand way, constantly exposing faultlines, but the opening Test is not a lost cause. The Lions have a foundation in the set pieces and goal-kicking, but it is wider out, in attack and defence, where there needs to be a difference. With a tilt to McGeechan, they need to say nothing, no matter how many words it takes: torque, not talk.
• This is an extract taken from the Breakdown, the Guardian’s weekly rugby union email. To subscribe, just visit this page and follow the instructions.
Having held 22 managerial jobs at 17 Portuguese clubs throughout his long and continuing career, Vítor Oliveira has shown he has an extraordinary and irrepressible nomadic streak. But the 63-year-old is known throughout Portugal for far more than just his wanderlust. Over the course of his 32-year managerial career, Oliveira has achieved promotion 10 times, including an unprecedented five in a row in his last five seasons.
After calling time on a nondescript playing career in June 1985, the 31-year-old midfielder was quickly installed as manager of his most recent club, Portimonense, who just so happen to be the club he manages today. He showed little of the skill that would help him make his name in his first job and soon found himself seeking alternative employment. After a brief spell with FC Maia, Oliveira took over at Paços de Ferreira, where he achieved the first of many promotions at the end of his third full season. Oliveira led his team out of the Portuguese second tier and kept them up the following season, improving his reputation and earning a three-year spell as manager of established top tier side Gil Vicente, before moving on to Vitória de Guimarães.
Oliveira’s spell in Guimarães proved far from favourable and within less than a year he had set sail again, this time to lead an ambitious project at Académica de Coimbra. The move proved inspired and he secured the second promotion of his career in the 1996-97 season, guiding Académica to the top tier. Oliveira stayed with Académica for just one more season following their promotion before opting for another change of scenery, taking the União de Leiria job. He stayed for a single campaign, just long enough to guide the team to the league title and, of course, promotion to the Primeira Liga.
His success in Leiria gave him the chance to manage Braga, an opportunity that showed his stock was rising. But, after just three wins in his first 14 league matches, Oliveira set his sights south once more – geographically and competitively – as he returned to the division he had come to know so intimately, taking a job with Belenenses. He arrived a few weeks before Christmas but, by the end of the season, he had secured a runners-up place in the league and an immediate return to the top tier – the club’s first promotion in almost a decade and Oliveira’s fourth in nine seasons.
Then came something of a barren spell, the worst of Oliveira’s career to date. He stuck with his club-hopping credo, ducking in and out of short-lived spells with clubs old and new – Rio Ave, Gil Vicente, Académica, Moreirense – but could not replicate his recent success. Things picked up in the 2006-07 season, when he helped Leixões achieve promotion, but but then came another six years of relative hardship, with spells União de Leiria, Trofense and Aves bringing scant success.
Fortunately for Oliveira, this period of stagnation was the precursor to a complete shift in fortunes as his move to Arouca in 2011 brought about an astoundingly successful period, even by his own lofty standards. Oliveira steered Arouca to second place in the 2012-13 season, securing his sixth promotion, then stepped down in pursuit of a second spell at Moreirense, where he claimed his fourth second-tier title, along with his seventh promotion.
União da Madeira were the next lucky recipients of his close-your-eyes-and-point-at-the-map technique of career choices. They secured his services in the summer of 2014 and, sure enough, they finished runners-up the following May and earned the seemingly inevitable promotion to the top tier, where they joined nine of their coach’s former clubs.
Not that he stuck around to enjoy the company. By the time the club kicked off in the top division, Oliveira was off in search of yet another promotion party, this time with Chaves. Another second-place finish in 2015-16 brought Oliveira his fourth promotion in as many seasons.
This time last year, Oliveira brought his managerial career full circle by joining Portimonense, the club where his grand journey had begun 32 years ago. And how exactly did his old club fare under Oliveira? They won promotion, of course, as champions no less.
As another long summer ticks by, the allure of a sixth promotion in six years must entice the coach. But Oliveira says he wants to stay at Portimonense. “I’m going to continue in Portimão,” he said at the end of the season. Whether or not he will be able to stifle his impulse to drop a division in pursuit of another promotion remains to be seen. Perhaps he will stick around and try to win the Primeira Liga, one league he has yet to conquer.
• This article is from These Football Times• Follow These Football Times and Will Sharp on Twitter
Manchester City have confirmed the signing of the goalkeeper Ederson from Benfica. The 23-year-old Brazilian has cost €40m (£34.7m) and becomes Pep Guardiola’s second signing of the summer after the midfielder Bernado Silva.
Ederson’s fee is a British record for a goalkeeper but is eclipsed by the €53m Juventus paid Parma for Gianluigi Buffon in 2001. He will formally join City on 1 July, when the transfer window opens.
“I like everything about Manchester City,” Ederson told the club’s website. “This is a great club, the league they have here in England and they have amazing fans and they play splendid football. I have always had the dream to play in English football and now I’m going to make it true.
“With Pep Guardiola, City are growing more and more. He is putting in place a young team for the future. Those were important factors in making my decision. Manchester City has an amazing squad. I think they managed to have a good season. Next season, we will have to be focused to achieve the goal of winning trophies.”
The signing of Ederson takes City’s contingent of Brazilians to four, joining Fernando, Fernandinho and Gabriel Jesus. The goalkeeper has played for Brazil at age-group level but not for the senior team. He was named in the provisional squad for the Copa América last year but injury forced him out of the final reckoning.
Ederson, born in São Paulo state in Brazil, went to Benfica as a teenager but left to play for two smaller Portuguese clubs – Ribeirão and Rio Ave – before rejoining in 2015.
Guardiola signed the goalkeeper Claudio Bravo from Barcelona last August but the Chile international failed to impress and Willy Caballero was preferred at times. Caballero is among the players who have left City this summer.
Ederson said of English football: “I have always watched it on TV. My impression is that it is a very intense game, box-to-box. The grounds are always full and the stadiums are nice. This is a very captivating football. The competition here would motivate any player. I’m ready, I’m always ready.
“I’m going to try to adapt to this league as quick as possible. Everyone knows here the competition is ferocious. It’s a bit different than the Portuguese league.
“At Benfica I played a little bit more advanced and I was involved a lot in the game. I think that revolution in the way goalkeepers get involved in the game was very important.
“I already had that skill to play outside the box. When I played for a team [Rio Ave] lower down I didn’t have the chance to play far from the goal, I had to stay close to it. But when I went to Benfica, I was able to improve what I knew and play further out getting more involved in the games, being more active. I have been developing that since.”
1) Cheick Tioté tragically died on Monday after reportedly suffering a heart attack while training with his club in China. If you haven’t already rewatched his famous volleyed equaliser in Newcastle’s 4-4 draw with Arsenal, here you go. He wasn’t a great goalscorer, his one international goal in 52 appearances for Ivory Coast coming against Nigeria in the 2013 Africa Cup of Nations. His best game for Newcastle undoubtedly came against Manchester United in 2012 – Wayne Rooney, Ryan Giggs and Michael Carrick didn’t get a kick as Tioté put in a majestic midfield performance. RIP.
2) Alex Honnold this week became the first person to ever free-solo climb El Capitan, the legendary California cliff in the Yosemite Valley. The 31-year-old ascended 2,900 metres in less than four hours with no harness, no rope – his effort has since been dubbed the ‘moon landing’ of free-soloing.
Also, despite being the most famous free-climber in the world, he lives out of his van and seems to be a pretty nice bloke.
3) LeBron James is sick and tired of losing to the Golden State Warriors, and LeBron James is sick and tired of answering your stupid questions. This isn’t the first time he has responded spikily to reporters: two weeks ago he called out WHBC’s Kenny Roda: “There’s this weird thing with you, Kenny. You always come around when we lose, I swear. And in 2011, he blurted out “ask me a better question tomorrow” when he was with the Miami Heat. Maybe LeBron should take a leaf out of Russell Westbrook’s book: “I just don’t like you.”
4) It’s Scotland v England this Saturday – due to be the 114th meeting, Scotland have won 41, England 48 – which is a good excuse to roll out a few auld clips: Scotland’s Wembley Wizards tonked England 5-1 at Ibrox back in 1928 and became ‘unofficial world champions’ when they ended England’s 19-match winning run back in 1967 at Wembley, and repeated the trick 10 years later: invading the pitch and snapping the crossbar in two. Of course, England have also had their way, not least the biggest win, 9-3 at Wembley in 1961 – some fine commentary in there too – and the most recent meeting between the two sides: a 3-1 win for England at Celtic Park in 2014, which included two Wayne Rooney goals and one Wayne Rooney somersault.
5) The French Open comes to a close this weekend: defending champion Novak Djokovic is already heading home, losing heavily to Dominic Thiem. It had been a rough tournament for Novak – he also confronted the umpire during his match with Diego Schwartzman. If you’re looking for another meltdown, look no further than Nick Kyrgios, taking his racket to task, much to the surprise of the crowd behind him. There have also been some sublime shots – Gaël Monfils’s slam-dunk smash was a particular highlight, but it’s still some way off Roland Garros’ official top five French Open shots of all time.
6) And finally, Sunday league-style drama in Bulgaria, as Vereya’s Ivan Bandalovski finishes off a beer can thrown onto the pitch – and then scores a last-minute equaliser:
1) Stoke City’s Ramadan Sobhi becomes the latest victim of Egyptian prankster Ramez Galal, who likes his stunts with more than a hint of genuine peril. Needless to say, Sobhi is not best pleased.
2) Back in 1990, Singapore’s Paul Lim hit the first (and only) nine-darter at the BDO World Championship. 27 years later, 63-year-old Lim shows Gary Anderson that he’s still got it:
3) Team New Zealand’s bid to beat Ben Ainslie in the America’s Cup came to a dramatic halt, as their boat capsized just behind the starting line:
4) Diving is nothing new – here’s Rangers winning a dodgy pen back in 1945. Justice was served eventually.
5) To close, this Boston Celtics fan is livin’ on a prayer.
Spotters’ badges: StuartRG, LeeWall, RobBarwick, Daniel Sixsmith, InexileSteve
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Wayne Rooney is on his way back to Everton. It’s the most romantic of stories, setting aside the bit about him swanning off for the more showy club down the road at the first opportunity, spending his golden years with them, and only coming back when said club don’t want him any more now he’s going bald and slowing up. Everton also might not be able to stump up the cash for the wages Rooney is demanding to return. It’s not exactly Mills & Boon, is it, never mind Jane Austen.
Manchester United will replace their outgoing record goalscorer with fresh meat in the shape of Torino striker Andrea Belotti and Real Madrid’s Álvaro Morata. They’ll table £87m for the former, £60m for the latter, though Real want another £20m on top of that. Some good news for United, though: superstar junkies Real aren’t that interested in spending huge sums on David de Gea any more, presumably working on the logic that everyone remembers Puskas, Gento and Di Stéfano, but who can name Rogelio Domínguez these days?
Chelsea, snubbed by Virgil van Dijk in favour of Liverpool, have just about stopped laughing very hard about Liverpool snubbing Van Dijk, and slapped a cash plus Nemanja Matic offer on the Juventus boardroom table. They want Leonardo Bonucci in return.
They’re also dangling a £150,000-a-week carrot in front of Everton striker Romelu Lukaku, with the big man reported as being very interested. No huge dissimilarities between this and the Van Dijk affair, really, when you boil the bones down, other than the small fact Chelsea haven’t started needlessly banging on about it yet.
Oh Liverpool!
Speaking of clubs going about their business in a cack-handed manner, Arsenal have made a bid for James Rodríguez. Real Madrid want £68.9m, so the Gunners have reportedly and pointedly offered an unspecified sum below that. Given their recent track record of being awkward just for the sake of it, £68,899,999 is the ballpark figure we’re guessing. Does bidding low ever bear fruit?
Tottenham Hotspur want £15m Borussia Dortmund defender Matthias Ginter. Speaking of BVB, those famous developers of hungry young talent ... this thing about buying Mario Balotelli ... erm ... y’what?
Finally, some assorted other news. West Bromwich Albion are interested in Hull midfielder Tom Huddlestone and Le Havre full-back Ferland Mendy. Crystal Palace, Brighton & Hove Albion and Birmingham City are also looking at the latter. Fabian Delph wants out of Manchester City. Barcelona are preparing a £40m swoop for Arsenal defender Héctor Bellerín. And it’s only a matter of time before Southampton sack their manager Claude Puel, who five months ago led the club to their first major final in 38 years. Yep, romance is dead all right.
Code-hopping Karmichael Hunt will make his long-awaited Wallabies debut alongside Waratahs backrower Ned Hanigan, with the pair named to start in Saturday’s Test against Fiji in Melbourne.
Hunt was named at inside centre for the first Test of the year, while 22-year-old Hanigan will start as a blindside flanker. The Australian team will be led by Michael Hooper after veteran Tatafu Polota-Nau beat regular skipper Stephen Moore to the starting hooker role. Moore may still appear on the bench, which will only be named following Friday’s final training run. 
Hunt will become a dual international after playing playing 11 rugby league Tests, only switching to rugby in 2015 after four years playing AFL. His Queensland teammate Scott Higginbotham will return to Test rugby after a two-year absence, named at No8 while Brumbies duo Sam Carter and Allan Alaalatoa have been rewarded for their fine Super Rugby form in a new-look tight five.
Wallabies coach Michael Cheika said he picked the team on form rather than past performances. “I have been very pleased with some of the individual performances this season and this has really been the basis of many of these selections,” Cheika said.
“It’s been great to see the energy that Ned and Karmichael have brought this week. We know Test footy is a different beast and I know they have what it takes to step up. Tatafu (Polota-Nau)has been challenging Stephen (Moore) for the number two jersey for many years and his form has warranted his selection.”
“Stephen is our captain and he’ll be up to the challenge of what both Tatafu and Tolu (Llatu) will bring this series.”
Wallabies squad: Israel Folau, Dane Haylett-Petty, Tevita Kuridrani, Karmichael Hunt, Henry Speight, Bernard Foley, Will Genia, Scott Higginbotham, Michael Hooper, Ned Hanigan, Adam Coleman, Sam Carter, Alan Alaalatoa, Tatafu Polota-Nau, Tom Robertson Res: To be named Friday

With their season on the line, the Cleveland Cavaliers turned in a superlative performance before a rollicking home crowd.
It simply wasn’t enough against one of the best teams in NBA history.
The Golden State Warriors scored the game’s final 11 points over the last three minutes to erase a six-point deficit and stun the defending champions with a 118-113 victory in Game 3 of the NBA finals on Wednesday night, taking a commanding three-games-to-none lead in the best-of-seven championship series.
“We got stops when we needed them,” said Kevin Durant, who finished with a team-high 31 points, including the go-ahead three-pointer with 45 seconds left that silenced the Quicken Loans Arena crowd.
Added Durant, who scored 14 points in the fourth quarter: “We’ve got one more win, we’ve got to keep going. We can’t win this thing unless we do it together.”
KEVIN. DURANT. @warriors: 116@cavs: 11312 seconds to play in Game 3. CLE 🏀 pic.twitter.com/47VReSvRcC
Klay Thompson had 30 points for the Warriors, Stephen Curry added 26 points, 13 rebounds and six assists.
The Warriors, who have now won 30 of their last 31 games stretching back to the regular season, improved to 15-0 in the playoffs and are one win away from the first ever undefeated postseason, say nothing of a second championship in three years.
The 15 consecutive playoff wins surpasses the Pittsburgh Penguins (1992-93) for the most postseason wins in a row among the other North American professional sports, according to the Elias Sports Bureau.
LeBron James had 39 points, 11 rebounds and nine assists for the Cavaliers, finishing one assist short of a record-breaking ninth career playoff triple double, while Kyrie Irving added 38 points.
But they couldn’t hold off the relentless Warriors during the final minutes, with Durant depositing the long-range coup de grâce over James’ outstretched arm. The sport’s best player, as it turned out, was no match for its best team.
“I said it after we won the Eastern Conference finals that we’re getting ready for a juggernaut,” James said afterward. “It’s probably the most, most firepower I’ve played (against) in my career. I played against some great teams, but I don’t think no team has had this type of firepower.
“So even when you’re playing well, you got to play like A-plus-plus, because they’re going to make runs and they’re going to make shots and they got guys that’s going to make plays. So we made enough plays tonight to still win the ball game, but they made a couple more.”
After Irving’s missed three-pointer on Cleveland’s last full possession, four Golden State free throws closed the show. And just like that, the Cavaliers’ title defense is all but finished: no team in league history has ever rallied from a three-games-to-none deficit to win a playoff series in 126 previous tries.
“They’re a juggernaut of a team, do a great job of spacing out the floor, keeping a high tempo, and just made some big-time plays down the stretch,” Irving said. “You got to give credit when credit is due.”
Added Warriors coach Steve Kerr: “Overall, it was just an incredibly tough, resilient performance. It wasn’t our smartest game that we have played all year, but it was maybe our toughest in terms of our ability to just hang in there.”
The Warriors no doubt expected Cleveland’s best shot in the early stages given the stakes and they got it. James pumped in 15 points on 7-for-8 shooting in the first quarter, including a thunderous dunk in transition over Durant and JaVale McGee.
He was aided by JR Smith, who had not made a shot in only five attempts over the previous 95 minutes of game action, but added a pair of three-pointers in the opening frame.
But when James went to the bench for a breather, the Warriors rattled off 10 straight points to extend a 39-32 lead at the end of the quarter. Cleveland was shooting 61.1% from the floor and LeBron was off to a sizzling start, yet the Warriors were still leading by seven.
Both teams cooled after their torrid start, though James at times singlehandedly kept the Cavaliers within touching distance of the Warriors’ manifold attack. By the time LeBron scored on a spectacular left-handed reverse layup to win a one-on-one matchup with Durant and close Golden State’s lead to 46-45 with seven minutes left in the half, the Cleveland superstar had posted 23 points – more than half Cleveland’s total – on 10-for-11 shooting.
The Cavaliers had faded badly after half-time in the opening two games, but instead on Wednesday surged ahead behind more sensational play from James. That carried over into the fourth quarter, where they led 113-107 with three minutes left.
Now the Warriors will look to finish the series, and their bid for a perfect postseason, in Friday night’s Game 4, a markedly shorter turnaround after no less than three-day breaks before the opening three games.
“I think we’ll all be fine,” Thompson said. “This is the most minutes I think we played all year between me, Steph, and Kevin. And Coach Kerr’s done a great job managing our minutes. And we know what’s at stake, and that’s an NBA title.
“So we won’t be tired because we got adrenaline on our side and we got to act like this is a do-or-die situation. We don’t want to go back to the Bay and win it; we want to finish it here and forget this game quickly and lock in tomorrow morning and get ready for a battle on Friday.”
He cracked a small smile, then didn’t miss. All Blacks coach Steve Hansen has never been one to waste an opportunity. This time it was to rubbish his Lions counter-part, Warren Gatland’s claim there’s little between New Zealand’s Super Rugby teams and what the All Blacks will bring to the three tests.
There’s a huge gap, Hansen suggested with a knowing shake of his head.
Hansen had just named two uncapped players in a largely predictable squad. Both are from the Hurricanes. Midfielder Ngani Laumape is the joint leading try scorer in Super Rugby with 14 and Jordie Barrett is one of three from the same family, alongside lock Scott and World Rugby’s best player last year, Beauden.
Two of the Blues backs who made life difficult for the Lions the previous night were also named – Sonny Bill Williams back after missing last year with Sevens duties and an achilles injury suffered at the Rio Olympics.
Blues wing Rieko Ioane entered a logjam of quality outside backs and will get another crack at the Lions with New Zealand Maori a week before the Test, along with his brother Akira, who is one of five players on standby for the All Blacks, and halfback Tawera Kerr Barlow. Before that game the Lions play an All Blacks-heavy Crusaders team and the Highlanders, who will have backs Lima Sopoaga and Waisake Naholo, and forward Liam Squire released for the match.
It paints a bleak picture for the Lions, with Gatland having tried to soften the defeat to the Blues by claiming they and the other four New Zealand Super teams are on a par with the All Blacks. “I don’t think there will be a lot of difference between some Super Rugby sides and the All Blacks,” Gatland said.
Hansen tossed him a bone when he said the former All Blacks hooker was trying for a bit of humour after reacting poorly to earlier suggestions his game plan was a predictable bash-fest. “I don’t think there’s any comparison between Super Rugby and Test rugby,” Hansen said with a nod and a chuckle. “He was probably just trying to make a light comment.”
Hansen made it clear he sees the Lions as a serious threat whatever happens in the games that precede the Tests. “I’ve always said this and I still believe it, I think they’re the best Lions side to come here. Gatland’s made it very, very clear that the first Test is all he’s got his eyes on. I don’t think they’re too bothered about what’s happening between now and then.”
“It would be foolish of us to think we can just rock up and expect a soft game. We’ll get the kitchen sink thrown at us and we need to be ready for that.”
Hansen touched on the Lions schedule, declaring the three-day lead-in to the first game was too tough and not something the All Blacks would have agreed too. Given that, he dismissed the performance against the Barbarians and said the loss to the Blues showed the players were still trying to establish combinations.
“They’re in the infancy of this tour,” Hansen said. “They’ll only get better and better. They’ll be a good side when the Tests come around. It’s well documented that that’s all they want to win anyway, they just want to win the Test matches.”
Hansen has named a formidable squad to counter the best of Britain and Ireland, those picked reflecting the depth he has to sift through and the form of many in the Super competition.
There are, though, a few injury concerns. Hooker Dane Coles isn’t expected to feature in the first two tests having been sidelined since mid-March with concussion. Midfielder Ryan Crotty is also in doubt with a rib injury while Ben Smith and Brodie Retallick have concussion issues. But there is a lot to like about this squad. There is x-factor and speed in the backs while the pack is simply the best New Zealand has to offer.
The only quibble would be the exclusion of Steven Luatua, but his departure soon to Bristol meant others were considered ahead of him. Laumape is a bold and inspired move. He has been in terrific form for the Hurricanes and deservedly pushed past incumbent All Blacks George Moala and Malakai Fekitoa.
And yet, Laumape may not feature in the Tests given Williams’ considerable ability, and if Ryan Crotty is able to shrug off a rib injury. Williams was a colossus in the Blues win against the Lions and revealed he is lighter, stronger and faster since his return from injury. “I’m starting to feel nimble, I just need more games,” the two-time World cup winner said.
Williams said he never thought his career was over when he ruptured his achilles in Rio, but confessed to “moping about” for a bit. “Then I made the decision I wanted to be a better player and that’s what I’m striving for.”
Given how well he played for the Blues, the Lions will be wondering just how much better he can be for the All Blacks. Williams will also test Gatland’s theory about just how close the Super teams are to the All Blacks. It could give Hansen another small chuckle.
Outside backs: Jordie Barrett, Israel Dagg, Rieko Ioane, Waisake Naholo, Julian Savea, Ben Smith.
Midfielders: Ryan Crotty, Ngani Laumape, Anton Lienert-Brown, Sonny Bill Williams.
Halfbacks: Tawera Kerr-Barlow, TJ Perenara, Aaron Smith.
Loose forwards: Sam Cane, Jerome Kaino, Kieran Read (captain), Ardie Savea, Liam Squire.
Locks: Scott Barrett, Brodie Retallick, Luke Romano, Sam Whitelock.
Props: Wyatt Crockett, Charlie Faumuina, Owen Franks, Joe Moody, Ofa Tu’ungafasi.
Hookers: Dane Coles, Codie Taylor, Nathan Harris.
Diego Costa has claimed he has been told by Antonio Conte that he is not wanted at Chelsea next season, with the Spain striker admitting he will “have to find a way out” of Stamford Bridge.
Costa, who is away on international duty after helping Chelsea to win the Premier League title last season, has been linked with a move to Chinese Super League side Tianjin Quanjian having seen a potential return to Atlético Madrid collapse after the Spanish side’s transfer ban was upheld. But with Chelsea interested in a move for Everton’s Romelu Lukaku, the 28-year-old revealed after Spain’s 2-2 draw with Colombia on Wednesday night that Conte had sent him a message this week to inform him that he does not expect the player who scored 20 Premier League goals last season to be a part of his squad next season.
“My relationship with the coach has been bad this season. I suppose I’ve had a bad season so I can’t go on,” Costa said.
“I’m going to be honest, the other day, Conte sent me a message saying he does not count on me for next season, so I’ll have to find a way out.
“I love living in Madrid, but I have to think about my future. It’s complicated because I cannot go four or five months without playing. I have no preference for a league, I just want to play.”
Costa has already made clear his reluctance to move to China, although it remains unclear whether he has other suitors in Europe. The Belgium striker, Michy Batshuayi, has also insisted he will not tolerate another season as a bit-part player at Chelsea as he targets a place at the World Cup in Russia.
A bizarre early own goal by defender José Giménez set Italy on the way to a convincing 3-0 win over Uruguay in a friendly played in Nice on Wednesday.
Two more goals in the last 10 minutes, a header from Brazilian-born forward Éder and a Daniele De Rossi penalty, condemned the South Americans to their fifth successive defeat while Italy extended their unbeaten run to nine games.
It was the first meeting between the two sides since their controversial match at the 2014 World Cup when Uruguay forward Luis Suárez bit Italy defender Giorgio Chiellini, and was subsequently suspended from football for four months. Suárez missed Wednesday’s game through injury while Chiellini came on as a substitute in the second half.
In the seventh minute of the match, Lorenzo Insigne launched a long ball forward and Andrea Belotti chested it down with his back to goal – only for Atlético Madrid defender Giménez to take it off his foot, inadvertently rifling a shot past his own goalkeeper Fernando Muslera.
Uruguay, also missing Edinson Cavani through injury, rallied in the second half. Martín Cáceres headed the ball into the net on the hour but the goal was harshly disallowed for a foul on Riccardo Montolivo.
Éder diverted Manolo Gabbiadini’s shot into the net with a close-range header in the 83rd minute, before De Rossi scored from a penalty in stoppage time after Stephan El Shaarawy was tripped by the hapless Giménez.
In Murcia, Real Madrid’s Álvaro Morata rescued a draw for Spain against Colombia to extend Julen Lopetegui’s unbeaten start as national coach.
David Silva opened the scoring for the hosts in the 22nd minute, turning home Pedro’s cross, but midfielder Edwin Cardona equalised for Colombia five minutes before half-time. Falcao’s 55th-minute header from a corner gave Colombia the lead, as they extended an unbeaten run against European sides stretching back to 2011.
While other Real Madrid players were rested, Morata – a late substitute in the Champions League final – was brought on for Iago Aspas and earned a draw in the 87th minute, heading in from Saúl Ñíguez’s left-wing cross.
It would be daft to get too excited at England grabbing their semi-final slot days before anyone else. This does not guarantee a romp to the final and then the trophy. But the current climate makes a change to the agonising postmortems that accompanied England’s early flight home from the 2015 World Cup.
The margin of New Zealand’s defeat in Cardiff – 87 runs – was misleading. After 30 overs of their run chase the Kiwis were 156 for two in pursuit of 311; Kane Williamson, after some early scares, was cruising with Ross Taylor in his wake. There was no sign of an imminent capsize.
The New Zealand captain looked serene, rarely inclined to play a shot that involved risk, which was why Morgan had turned to the nearest he has to a “shock” bowler, the galloping Mark Wood. He needed a wicket badly. Then the ball misbehaved, bouncing steeply and flicking Williamson’s glove; Jos Buttler took a testing catch safely.
It may be that Morgan had a bit of luck since treacherous deliveries cannot be summoned up to order like pizzas. But from this moment on England did not require any luck. Morgan and his bowlers did not miss a trick.
The next batsman was Neil Broom and for the first time in the match a short leg was posted. Morgan must have noticed how Williamson had stared at the treacherous spot on the pitch before departing like a man betrayed. Here was the Kiwi captain suggesting that the fates were against him and his side.
That short-leg fielder was unlikely to take a catch but he was delivering a message to Broom. This surface was no longer to be trusted; the ball was popping (there was some truth in this since both Williamson and Taylor had been disconcerted earlier in the innings); more importantly there was no harm in reminding the new batsman of this. England were now hunting for wickets rather than containment.
There was a message here for Morgan’s pace bowlers: bang the ball into the pitch not at bouncer length, which was the policy employed by New Zealand when bowling from that end in the second half of England’s innings, but just short of a length, preferably using the cross-seam method. Then something might happen. Somehow the ball seems to grip the surface when bowling cross seam at Cardiff, a handy discovery by Stuart Broad a year or two ago, which had been dutifully passed on.
From here Morgan was in control on a day when the little things were counting for something – like the decision to give Jake Ball the first over; he had been carted for over 80 in two of his last three outings. But Morgan wanted him to start in place of Chris Woakes, an expression of confidence in someone who was considered a borderline selection before the game. How did Ball respond? With a wicket and two maidens and ultimately the man-of-the-match award in a game when there was no obvious recipient.
The other borderline selection was superb. Rashid obviously has not been sulking since his omission against Bangladesh. The suspicion is that Morgan must have convinced him that this was no slight on his ability or temperament. The conditions were nasty for a wrist-spinner: a gusting wind, a pitch offering little turn, those much-mentioned short, straight boundaries. Yet Rashid has seldom bowled better for England; there was barely a bad ball; the googly was employed frequently, which can be a sound indicator that his confidence is high.
In the field Morgan attacked adroitly throughout (not just with his brief dalliance with a short leg). With the departure of Williamson Morgan kept his seamers going and the asking rate started to climb; a less confident captain might have slipped on his vulnerable spinner immediately to shed the remaining four overs required from a slow bowler. In any case Morgan had faith in Rashid.
So for 20 overs on a blustery Cardiff evening England were brilliant. But it was only 20 overs. They must get better and contemplate whether a change of personnel is required. No prizes for the next name to surface: Jason Roy. The advice is echoing around. Some advocate that he should be more circumspect, that he should try just to bat some overs before elaborating.
That sounds like poor advice to me and I suspect this is the last thing Morgan will be saying to him. Roy is in the side because he is prepared to bat in a maverick manner at the top of the order. That is what England want him to do. He has neither the temperament nor the technique to play like a proper, old-fashioned opener. So if selected, he must be allowed the freedom to continue playing his way.
Whether Roy should continue to be selected is another matter. It would be convenient for England if they could play Roy and Jonny Bairstow on Saturday. However, England are likely to be hellbent on playing their best side even in a “free” game. After all, the opponents are Australia.
Chris Smalling, one of the players whose competitive courage has repeatedly been questioned by José Mourinho over the last season, has said it is wrong to allege he is not willing to put his body on the line and insisted he can supply the hard evidence to show the Manchester United manager was wrong.
Smalling chose his words carefully to make sure he did not say anything that could be construed as direct criticism of Mourinho but the centre-half said it was not true, contrary to what his manager had implicitly stated, that he was reluctant to play unless he felt 100% fit.
Mourinho clearly has a different view judging by the number of occasions when he has publicly challenged Smalling, as well as Phil Jones, to speed up their recovery from injuries, at one point stating that if he had the same problem he would declare himself fit the next day.
Smalling was one of the players to whom Mourinho was referring when he complained that the attitude was “cautious, cautious, cautious” and, again, when he talked about the player missing a game against Swansea City last November and spoke at length about there being “a difference between the brave, who want to play at any cost, and the ones for whom a little pain can make a difference”.
Those comments backfired on Mourinho when it emerged Smalling had a broken toe but played with the injury two weeks earlier at Chelsea, a 4-0 defeat when the defender needed two pain-killing injections to be involved.
Smalling, on England duty preparing for the game against Scotland on Saturday, confirmed there had never been an apology from his manager. “No, it’s just professional,” he said. “All of us are professionals and no player wants not to play. That was all just [him being] professional – get on with the rehab and then get out as quickly as you can.
“I think that was directed at everybody. We had a lot of injuries at that time and he was frustrated that quite a lot of players weren’t available. He knew the picture in terms of liaising with the medical staff and he was just frustrated, the same as us players who wanted to be on the pitch.”
Asked about the specific allegation that he would not play unless 100%, Smalling said: “I think in the Chelsea game I proved that I would play with injections.
“I had done the injury, I played on and it turned out there was a break. I had a couple of injections but it got worse and that’s when I had the layoff. You always want to push yourself because you don’t want to let the fans or players down. Obviously he didn’t know the full extent at that time. You just keep playing until physically you can’t and that was the story with the break. But I don’t think he knew the full picture then and once it was cleared up it was all good.”
Mourinho did, however, come back to the same point on several occasions when Smalling damaged a knee later in the season and it did not help that the injury was inflicted when he and Jones tackled one another in a training session with England. “We don’t hold anything back, either for our clubs or on international duty, so injuries are going to come,” Smalling said. “It was unfortunate that we are obviously from the same club. That’s been the story of this season, unfortunately. I’ve been lucky in previous seasons not to be too injury-prone.”
Smalling went on to describe himself as “a leader” and, referring to Mourinho’s public challenges to accelerate his recovery process, he said he would take it as a compliment.
“It comes back to the manager’s frustrations,” he said. “When I’m sitting down with the manager and the medical staff we set out a timeline and then we try to shave it, and push and push … because the longer it takes the fewer games you have. They are always trying to push us as much as they can. The manager has shown his frustration but we [injured players] are just as frustrated.
“It’s good when he shows that frustration because it shows he wants you back out on that pitch. If he wasn’t interested, he would just leave you alone and he wouldn’t say any of these things. So I take it as a positive, as a challenge to get back as quickly as I can – which I would have done anyway, regardless of whatever was said.”
Marcus Rashford believes Gareth Southgate determined what was best for England as well as for the Manchester United striker when selecting him for the senior squad rather than allowing him to continue his development in the under-21s this summer.
Rashford, who scored 11 goals in 53 club games last season, registered a hat-trick on his only appearance for the under-21s, against Norway last September, and the coach, Aidy Boothroyd, had hoped to take him to the European Championship in Poland, which starts next week. However, Southgate opted to “protect” the striker after a hefty workload last term, with the 19-year-old seeking a ninth senior cap against Scotland on Saturday having earned his place in the squad on merit.
The Football Association has in the past been keen for players to gain tournament experience in their age-group teams before playing exclusively for the senior side, and Rashford is still eligible for the under-20s, who are excelling at the World Cup in South Korea. “He [Southgate] has had to think about what’s best for England and for me as a player,” Rashford said. “I’m happy to be with the seniors and to continue my development. It’s important to be on the same page.
“It’s something you look forward to, being selected for your country. You have the under-20s in South Korea doing well, and the under-21s going into a tournament. Whatever age group you’re called upon [by] it’s important you have a mindset where you’re going to achieve great things. To me it’s not being fast-tracked. There’s been a lot of games; England and United have dealt with it in a positive way. I feel comfortable with the position I’m in.”
Rashford is one of three strikers available to Southgate for the qualifier against Scotland and Tuesday’s friendly in France after Jamie Vardy withdrew because of a thigh injury suffered in training on Tuesday. The forward felt a twinge and has returned to Leicester City for treatment, with his departure described as precautionary. Harry Kane will start at Hampden Park and Jermain Defoe joins Rashford on the bench.
The United manager, José Mourinho, had made clear his preference was for Rashford to be retained by the seniors rather than drop back into the under‑21s. There was, however, no dialogue between Mourinho and Boothroyd, who had long since grown resigned to being without the 19-year-old at the finals. “I want all the best players but my job is also a development role,” said the coach. “In the end it never came down to José. It was about me talking to Gareth and listening to what he had to say because he’s the boss.
“If he thinks Marcus would be better suited to the senior team and had gone past the under-21s, then I can put my tuppence worth in – which I did – but in the end, for the best of everybody, Marcus went with the senior team. Since March he has been scoring goals regularly. He has become Manchester United’s No1 goalscorer, their key player in the magnificent season they’ve had. If he’d had a bit of a dip it would have suited the under-21s more but the fact that he has just kept on going means he comes into the senior team. I think once you’ve moved [up], you’ve moved.”
Rashford was utilised more regularly in a central role at United after Zlatan Ibrahimovic suffered a serious knee ligament injury in April and had no qualms about stepping into the void left by the Swede. “I knew how I would react,” he said. “It is more about what other people learnt about me. Going into that situation some people had different opinions of what would happen, but none of that matters.
“We got the trophy we needed [the Europa League]. If you don’t believe in yourself you can’t expect other people to believe in you, so I was confident going into the games. It is just another step that you take individually. Taking on the responsibility of being in that role is something you take pride in.”
Marcus Rashford’s decision to visit victims of the Manchester terror attack in hospital was motivated by a desire to show the city remains united.
The Manchester United striker, with his club-mate Jesse Lingard, made use of a day off from England duty on Monday to spend time at Manchester children’s hospital with youngsters hurt in the blast after the Ariana Grande concert at Manchester Arena just over two weeks ago, which left 22 people dead. A further 119 were injured. Rashford, who was raised in Wythenshawe, and Lingard attended Sunday’s benefit concert at the Old Trafford cricket ground.
“It was our spare time and this is something we wanted to do,” Rashford said. “We thought it was important. If you can make a difference, it’s important you do so. Going there and seeing the victims, helping them smile and having a laugh with them, creates a good feeling. Friends of friends of mine were affected. Manchester is a small place and it was more than likely that I was going to know someone who was a victim there.
“We are with the families as much as we can be and it’s important the families know that. That’s one of the reasons why we wanted to visit the hospitals. We are doing all we can to support the families and the victims of the attack. Things like the concert and going to the hospital shows the families and people around the city we are together and we have to fight it together.”
Manchester United are set to increase their offer for Álvaro Morata to £60m after their first bid of around £52m was rejected by Real Madrid.
José Mourinho has identified the 24-year-old as his primary attacking target for this summer after France international Antoine Griezmann confirmed he will not be leaving Atlético Madrid. Negotiations with Madrid have taken place this week, with United’s first offer of €60m (£52.3m) turned down as the Champions League winners value him significantly higher at €90m.
United are understood to be confident of persuading the Real president, Florentino Pérez, to settle for a reduced fee if they can pay the majority of it up front for a player who returned to the Santiago Bernabéu Stadium from Juventus last year after Madrid exercised a buyback clause of £30m. Chelsea had also registered an interest in Morata, who scored 20 goals in all competitions last season and helped Spain draw their friendly 2-2 with Colombia on Wednesday night, but are now believed to be closing in on a deal for Everton’s Romelu Lukaku.
“Alvaro is a player who wants to play a more important role,” his agent Juanma Lopez told Foot Mercato on Thursday. “He wants to play more. Which is normal for an attacker who has scored 19 goals. I do not know (if he will have another season at Madrid). This has been a brilliant season for Real Madrid who have won many titles. The player will take a clear and definitive decision in the coming days. I have not yet met with the representatives from Real Madrid.”
Asked about reported interest from Milan, he added: “It existed and continues to exist, like other big teams who are interested in a player of his quality.”
Madrid are also keen to sell James Rodríguez, with the Colombia forward thought to be available for around £60m, although there is less enthusiasm for that pursuit at Old Trafford. Meanwhile, Paulo Dybala’s agent has denied reports that the Juventus forward is a target for both United and Chelsea by insisting the Argentina international wants to remain with the Serie A champions. “Paulo signed a new contract with Juventus last month. He is happy in Turin,” Pierpaolo Triulzi told the Guardian.
Pakistan lived up to every well-worn trope about the mercurial nature of their cricket, delivering a resurgent, prediction-defying performance in the field followed by a tense run chase that felled South Africa via Duckworth-Lewis and kept their Champions Trophy campaign alive.
Sarfraz Ahmed’s side had been written off as no-hopers after their lamentable defeat to India here on Sunday. But as the rain fell in Birmingham and forced the players off at 7.38pm, his batsmen were 119 for three from 27 overs, chasing 220 to win, and 19 runs above the par score of 100. Victory was theirs when the match was called off at 9.44pm.
It had followed a gloriously absorbing passage of play in the most compelling contest of this already soggy tournament. Babar Azam’s unbeaten 31 from 51 balls and a similarly watchful 26 from Mohammad Hafeez had battled to keep their side north of the crucial equation in front of a vocal Pakistani crowd and amid the growing mizzle and murk.
When the latter became Morne Morkel’s third victim in a hostile performance from the right-armer, as AB de Villiers shuffled his Duckworth-Lewis sheets Pakistan were just one run ahead. But Shoaib Malik emerged with a flurry of boundaries in an unbeaten 16 that would ease the tension and prompt huge cheers when the skies fully opened.
De Villiers said: “If I had known it would only be 27 overs, I would have attacked a lot more on the field. We have to up our ante a bit. We started well against Sri Lanka [to win] and we know which areas to work on.”
That Pakistan’s overall target was so meagre came down to a transformed performance in the field after losing the toss, as players policed the inner ring as if their lives depended on it. Sarfraz, speaking afterwards, credited an honest team meeting in which there was “no shouting” given their training day was ruined by the weather.
In quintessential Pakistani fashion they also got the two white balls to move off the straight for the first time seen in this tournament. Hassan Ali, the slippery right-armer from Punjab, was the chief destroyer with this, picking up three for 23 from eight overs including two in two balls as the eighth-ranked side limited the top-ranked team to 219 for eight from 50 overs.
The tone was set by the left‑arm seamers, Mohammad Amir and the recalled Junaid Khan, but it was the spinners who inflicted the first bout of panic in the South Africa dressing room. With dots mounting up through this renewed collective effort, Imad Wasim and Hafeez reduced the Proteas to 61 for three in the 15th over, capped off by De Villiers experiencing his first golden duck in ODI cricket.
The left-armer Imad struck first, pinning Hashim Amla in front on 16, before Hafeez – unused against India – repeated the trick to Quinton de Kock on 20.
If Edgbaston was throbbing at this stage, it found a whole new level when De Villiers rocked back to his first ball from Imad and carved it straight to backward point. What’s eating South Africa’s captain at present, given his similarly distracted dismissal against Sri Lanka, is anyone’s guess.
From here it was over to Hassan, who after persuading Faf du Plessis to chop on to his stumps on 26 produced the burst for the ages as from around the wicket and with just a smidgeon of line-holding movement, the edge of JP Duminy’s bat was found to reward an attacking wide slip, followed by the removal of Wayne Parnell’s off-stump first ball.
That South Africa did not implode fully came down to Dave Miller’s unbeaten 75, defying his usual belligerent style in stands of 47 and 49 with Chris Morris and Kagiso Rabada and finishing the innings with a bludgeoned four. Junaid accounted for both of his tail‑end partners before the conclusion, with Hassan – the man who dropped Yuvraj Singh on Sunday – summing up Pakistan’s head-scratching upturn with two swirling catches in the deep.
Pakistan’s reply began in bold fashion, Fakhar Zaman attacking anything wide in a breakneck 31 from only 23 balls. The debutant’s opening salvo was ended at slip via a smart off-cutter by Morkel, followed by Azhar Ali ramping the right‑armer to third man on nine to prompt a steady ascent first from Babar and Hafeez, before Shoaib’s decisive late cameo.
Warren Gatland believes that his British & Irish Lions squad could yet upset the All Blacks despite their frustrating last‑gasp 22-16 defeat against the Blues in Auckland. Gatland has warned his players, however, to stop conceding soft penalties if they are to put a tough start to their 2017 tour behind them.
With a string of tough provincial games ahead, notably the Crusaders match in Christchurch on Saturday, Gatland argues his side will be uniquely well prepared when they do finally encounter New Zealand in just over three weeks.
“There is so much strength in depth I don’t believe there’s going to be a massive amount of difference between the Super Rugby sides and the All Blacks,” the Lions’ head coach said. “These guys have been together for seven months and the All Blacks are coming together cold. We will have learned a lot from tonight and learned a lot about the opposition and I think we will keep improving.
“Look, we know the quality of the New Zealand sides but I thought it was a big improvement from Saturday. It was [settled by] a moment of magic which you do get from New Zealand teams. We have to be a little bit better at stopping their offloading game but we will continue to improve.”
In the dressing room, too, Gatland’s assistant Andy Farrell has been stressing the need for players to be more clinical and not give sides like the Blues easy points. “The big message from Andy Farrell to the players was the penalty count and penalties that were avoidable,” Gatland said. “In the first two games we have been a bit soft in that area. We have to be hard on ourselves as players and coaches to make sure we definitely tighten up in that area because it is causing us a few issues. If we cut down the number of penalties we give away it’s going to make a big difference.”
The Lions have slight fitness doubts over the Irish centre Jared Payne who aggravated a calf problem in Wednesday’s game, and the Welsh fly-half Dan Biggar, who failed a head injury assessment. Both are unlikely to feature this weekend when a number of likely Test starters are expected to be involved. After Christchurch the team will travel to Dunedin to face the Highlanders on Tuesday.
The scrum-half Rhys Webb said the result would make no difference to the squad’s morale. “We’re not going to drop our heads, we’ll review the game, learn from it and move on,” he said. “There’s no sense of panic. We knew it was going to be tough, we knew it was going to be a challenge coming over. These teams are pretty special and the strength in depth they’ve got in these teams is amazing. They can make tries from anywhere and score tries from anywhere. We just need to stay alert for the full 80 minutes.”
He also paid tribute to Sonny Bill Williams, who had a highly influential game in the Blues midfield and helped to set up a spectacular winning try for Ihaia West. “He’s a monster, isn’t he?” Webb said. “Everyone knows what he can do; he got them over the gain-line and he’s got that class about him. We know he’s going to be a threat in a couple of weeks’ time, so it was good to play against him now. He’s special, he’s an athlete and he’s world‑class. He showed a couple of glimpses today of what he can do. He’s been out with injury, but he’s coming back into a bit of form now. We need to be on our money to stop him in a couple of weeks’ time.”
The Cavaliers may be down in their NBA finals rematch with the Warriors, but LeBron James is far from out.
“Do I look tired?” the Cleveland superstar said at his team’s shootaround Wednesday ahead of Game 3 against the Warriors. “I feel great. I’m averaging a triple-double in the finals. I’m pretty good, I would think.”
James is averaging 28.5 points, 13.0 rebounds and 11.0 assists, but he’s been outshone by defensive assignment Kevin Durant, who’s averaged 35.5 points and 11.0 rebounds as the Warriors have taken the first two games of the best-of-seven championship series by a combined 41 points.
“They’re playing well,” James said. “They are playing exceptionally well, and I don’t get involved in what’s going on in the summertime or things of that nature. I’m too far removed from those talks and communications and all the things that go on. So at the end of the day, I want to win just as bad as they do.”
Cleveland was in a very similar spot a year ago, when the Cavs lost the first two games by 48 points, won Game 3 and then overcame a three-games-to-one deficit to win their first title.
In addition to all he does on offense, James has also been assigned to cover Durant. It’s unlikely Cavs coach Tyronn Lue will change the matchup at the start of Game 3, but he did use guard Iman Shumpert on Durant for portions of Game 2.
According to ESPN’s research, the first two games of the series were played at a faster pace – possessions per minutes – than any of James’ previous 212 playoff games. The three-time champion stopped driving to the basket in the second half of Game 2 and he looked spent on the bench when he took a break during the third quarter.
The Warriors are a perfect 14-0 so far in the postseason, and they seem intent on revenge after giving up a 3-1 lead to the Cavs in last year’s finals.
James, however, also rejected any notion that the Warriors are any hungrier than he and his teammates.
“I want to win just as bad as they do and obviously they probably got a bad taste in their mouth after what happened last year and we had one in our mouth last year from what happened the year before,” James said. “I’ve had a few bad tastes in my mouth from what happened in the finals, so and I’ve always had that feeling so it never changed for me.”
Boris Becker, who split with Novak Djokovic in December, says the Serb urgently needs another full-time coach to replace Andre Agassi, who was not in his box on Wednesday when Dominic Thiem knocked him out of the quarter finals of the French Open after beating him 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 6-0 in front of a stunned audience.
The defending champion, who appeared to give up in the third set, admitted: “I’m not close to my best, and I know that.” But he refused to blame Agassi, who returned to the United States on Friday after watching only three of his matches. The former world No1 has not added to his 12 slams since winning here for the first time in 2016.
“Novak certainly has to make a clean cut,” said Becker, who helped guide Djokovic to six majors in three years, on Eurosport. “He started to work with Agassi, a new super-coach. However Agassi missed the second week when Djokovic needed him there the most. He has to find a new Tour coach. It is said that there were conversations with some coaches who will support him, but this has to happen fast and not during Wimbledon, because Djokovic has to take advantage of the next three or four weeks to come back.”
Djokovic insisted: “Don’t put Andre in the midst of this. The final set, that’s all me. We’re gonna try to get together in Wimbledon, but that’s all for now. His influence and impact on my game, it’s gonna take time. It’s not something that comes out in the first week. We have spent seven days together. We just got to know each other. We will see where it takes us. There have been a lot of changes with the team and so forth. I’m so excited to work with Andre and the new team.”
Thiem took just one game off Djokovic in Rome two weeks ago. The 23-year-old Austrian said after the best win of his career that it was, “understandable” that Djokovic appeared to be suffering “mentally” at the end of this match. “The key for [my] first victory against him [after five straight losses] was to win this close first set, and then have a good start to the second set.”
Thiem plays Rafael Nadal for the fourth time in a month on Friday. The nine-time champion earlier went through on a retirement win over Pablo Carreno Busta.
Djokovic said of the world No7 who bamboozled him over two-and-a-quarter hours on Court Suzanne Lenglen with slice and power: “Thiem is one of the up-and-coming rising stars. He’s very hungry to beat you and to get his hands on a grand slam trophy. He’s got a really good chance. It was not there for me today, especially in the second part of the match. I was unable to hit the ball well, hit too many unforced errors. He was getting better and better and more confident as the match progressed. He deserved to win. He was definitely the better player on the court today.
“I love this sport. I’m motivated as any other player on the Tour. Even though I have played for many years, I still want to do well. The least I can do is give my all whenever I’m holding a racket in my hand. But sometimes circumstances are such that you are not able to perform as well as you want.
“I always expect a lot from myself, but it’s a fact that I’m not playing close to my best, and I know that. All the top players have been through [it]. I guess you’ve got to go through it, try to learn your lessons and figure out a way how to get out of it stronger. It’s a big challenge, but I’m up for it.”
Asked if he would take a break to refresh his mind and body, he added: “I was planning to play only Wimbledon. I might play a lead-up event; I might not. I have responsibility to the game itself, towards others. It’s not an easy decision to make.”
The British Horseracing Authority and the executives at tracks such as Ascot and Goodwood have – quite understandably – had little or nothing to say so far about the developing crisis in the Gulf, which places British racing’s two biggest benefactors from the region on opposite sides of a blockade.
Godolphin’s Sheikh Mohammed is the defence minister of the United Arab Emirates, part of a coalition led by Saudi Arabia which has cut diplomatic and economic ties with Qatar. Land, sea and air links have been severed, while Qatari citizens in the UAE have been given a fortnight to leave. The Saudi-led coalition accuses Qatar of support for terrorist groups and destabilising its neighbours, claims that Qatar denies.
Thus far, the BHA has noted the British government’s encouragement “of a strong and growing trading relationship with Qatar”, and that it is “not currently aware of any change in that regard”. Ascot, meanwhile, simply stated the obvious, pointing out the “significant contribution” that Qatar has made to British racing in recent years.
Of that, there is no doubt. European racing in general – and the sport in Britain in particular – has benefited hugely from Qatari largesse. It takes colossal wealth to buy your way on to the top table in international racing, and both Sheikh Fahad al-Thani and Sheikh Joaan al-Thani, members of Qatar’s ruling family, have done so in double-quick time, not just via their bloodstock but also through long-term sponsorship deals with major tracks.
Goodwood has a 10-year deal for sponsorship of its summer Festival meeting which is due to run until 2024. Qipco, whose board of directors are all members of the ruling family, has a deal to support the Champions Series and Champions Day at Ascot which also expires in 2024. The new money has led to significant boosts in prize funds, and helped to keep prices buoyant at the major yearling sales. Champions Day, the BHA’s most cherished project in recent years, might have struggled to get off the ground without Qipco’s support (and disappointment at the viewing figures for Champions Day on Channel 4 was, it is rumoured, a factor in the decision to switch coverage to ITV).
Any situation which threatens to disrupt or terminate the flow of Qatari money into British racing is one that the biggest beneficiaries will view with alarm, to say the least. The al-Thanis are young men in their early 30s, and apparently as enthusiastic about racing as Sheikh Mohammed and his brothers were when they caught the bug, back in the 1970s. There has been a growing, and possibly dangerous, assumption that the latest billionaires to fall in love with the turf would be around for decades to come.
And it is still very possible that they will. But however the current crisis plays out, it is a reminder that even where billionaires with sovereign wealth are concerned, nothing can ever be taken for granted.
It is difficult to imagine where British racing might be now without the staggering sums that have found their way into the sport since Sheikh Mohammed took a train to Brighton in 1977 to watch his first winner. But the next generation of the Maktoum family does not, as yet at least, seem to share the same zeal for the sport as the one before. Nor is there an obvious heir at present to the Juddmonte racing and breeding empire, which has seen the Saudi prince Khalid Abdullah race such brilliant horses as Dancing Brave and Frankel over the last 40 years.
One side of racing’s funding equation – the income from betting – was secured for the foreseeable future earlier this year with the introduction of a new funding mechanism to capture all off-course bets. Securing the other side – the income from owners – promises to be the greater issue over the years ahead.
Bangor
2.20 Mister Universum 2.50 Murray Mount 3.20 Western Miller 3.50 Iora Glas 4.20 Solix 4.50 Gleno
Carlisle
6.10 Wirral Girl 6.40 Ajwan 7.10 Cartavio 7.45 Pilgrim’s Treasure 8.20 Rainbow Rebel 8.50 Mustaqbal 9.20 Reinforced
Haydock
2.10 American Craftsman 2.40 Seyaady 3.10 Supersymmetry 3.40 Viva Verglas 4.10 Mac O’Polo 4.40 With Hindsight
Ripon
2.00 Sandie Gem 2.30 Springforth 3.00 Sands Chorus 3.30 Boots And Spurs 4.00 Reinstorm 4.30 Liquid Gold 5.00 Callaghan
Sandown
6.00 Glaceon 6.30 Utopian Dream (nap) 7.00 Envoy (nb) 7.35 On To Victory 8.05 Your Ladyship 8.40 Ejayteekay
Tottenham Hotspur are considering a move for the Borussia Dortmund and Germany centre-half Matthias Ginter. The 23-year-old is a target for Hoffenheim, who value him at around €17m (£14.8m) and need a replacement for Niklas Süle, who has joined Bayern Munich for €20m. Tottenham, though, could step in with a counter-offer.
Mauricio Pochettino was interested in Ginter last summer and the Tottenham manager admires him for his tactical flexibility and comfort on the ball. Pochettino has spoken on numerous occasions about how Tottenham must be smart in the transfer market, as they cannot compete in financial terms with their rivals at the top of the Premier League, and Ginter could turn out to be a value signing.
Ginter was a member of Germany’s victorious 2014 World Cup squad, although he did not play, and when he moved from Freiburg to Dortmund for €8.5m after the finals he was rated as one of the most promising centre-backs in Europe. He has not yet fulfilled his potential and he was left out of Germany’s squad for Euro 2016 but he has shown flickers of what he can do at Dortmund.
The club parted company with the manager Thomas Tuchel last week and they have replaced him with Peter Bosz, who led Ajax to the Europa League final in this past season. Ginter wants to know where Bosz sees him as fitting into his plans.
It is inconceivable to believe and ludicrous to suggest that Novak Djokovic will not rediscover the spiritual drive and technical facility that lifted him to the summit of his sport here only 12 months ago. But there were extended moments towards the end of the defending champion’s shocking three-set defeat against Dominic Thiem on the 11th day of the French Open when that prognosis seemed wholly valid.
Losing in the quarter-finals of a slam is hardly a disgrace. But when the third set screamed by in only 20 minutes there was a disturbing sense of surrender in the Serb’s demeanour. Later, his press conference felt like a wake that turned into a reading of the will, as Djokovic pondered his immediate plans, while giving his conqueror due respect.
While the 30-year-old expects to meet up again with Andre Agassi before Wimbledon, there was an air of uncertainty about their new partnership – which lasted precisely three matches here before the American returned home after fulfilling an engagement to promote a brand of coffee.
Djokovic insists he knows what is wrong with his game but appears unsure how to fix it. When he won the title last year, Boris Becker and the Serb’s long-time friend and coach, Marian Vajda, headed one of the biggest support teams in tennis. Both are gone. So is Agassi. Djokovic looks alone, lost and vulnerable.
He admitted he felt “lost” when losing to Stan Wawrinka in the final of the US Open last year. But before that the world No41 Sam Querrey beat him at Wimbledon, and after New York, Denis Istomin (117) put him out of the Australian Open. At least he lost here to the No6 seed.
His dilemma can be distilled into the unfolding of that third set. Djokovic won eight points. He won six of 20 points on his own serve, two of 14 on his opponent’s. His sole, meagre success was to prevail in the one rally that went longer than nine shots. He hit 12 unforced errors, a third of his total for the entire match. The score tells the story of his weakening resistance: 7-6 (7-5), 6-3, 6-0 in only two and a quarter hours – the same time it took Hsieh Su-wei to beat Johanna Konta in the first round of the women’s draw.
Thiem played very well but, as Mats Wilander, who won this tournament three times in the 80s, observed, Djokovic played as poorly as he can have done “in the past seven or eight years”. He will drop to at least No3 in the rankings on Monday, possibly No4. He has not been outside the top two since he launched his magnificent assault on his opponents in 2011. It seems so long ago.
Thiem’s challenge, meanwhile, is to keep his composure for the semi-final on Friday against a rampant Rafael Nadal, who earlier had the benefit of a retirement result against his Spanish compatriot Pablo Carreño Busta when leading 6-2, 2-0.
As Thiem said courtside: “It’s amazing how difficult it is to go deep in a grand slam. You have to play the best guys round after round. It’s not getting easier on Friday.” It could not have been much easier on Wednesday.
There are moments when champions have to draw on the powers that make them special. Djokovic has recovered from unpromising positions so many times that even when he looked down and out, there was hope. Yet the passages of disappointment began to mount with such alarming regularity that, after a couple of hours, it seemed pointless to hold on to any notion of redemption.
Using the kick serve into the advantage corner, Thiem had drained Djokovic’s normally rock-solid backhand return. He invested a lot of his bread-and-butter strokes with a slice that confounded his opponent and he kept his own mistakes to a minimum, moving like a panther to hunt down the many short balls served up to him. But there was more going on than mere tennis shots.
The first set was close, although Thiem suspected this might not be the Djokovic who hit him off the court in the semi-finals in Rome recently. The Austrian had witnessed his opponent’s occasional struggles in the first week. This was his time. He stuck to his uncomplicated, robust shot-making and, gradually, forced Djokovic to drop deeper, then drilled home the angled winners.
He might have been waiting for the backlash but it did not materialise. At 0-30 and two sets down, Djokovic played a blinding point to get back into the rally. The patrons applauded and the Serb, who lives for love, smiled and raised a defiant fist. But it did not have the fire of old. It was just that: a gesture. Thiem broke his serve, and maybe his heart.
If Djokovic had realistic ambitions beforehand of reaching the semi-finals, his primary objective now was to avoid embarrassment. His ground strokes disintegrated. The net grew larger and the court shrank. Thiem was not looking across at a legend who had won 12 slam titles and probably would collect a few more yet; he saw a wounded bull.
As the confident 23-year-old rested before the final act, leading 5-0, he looked as calm as Djokovic often has done in similar situations. There was no room for pity. He wanted a bloodless conclusion.
Thiem coasted to 40-0. Court Suzanne Lenglen, the tournament’s second arena, went silent. Would he not only bagel Djokovic but not allow him even one more point? Thiem netted a backhand, the smallest of mercies.
He missed a serve – and then he lashed an exquisite backhand down the line. The deed was done.
There were press-box mutterings: did we just see Djokovic give up? Surely not. He had, though, been beaten out of sight by a young man who one day might be as great a champion himself.
Southampton are confident that Virgil van Dijk will remain at the club next season after Liverpool were forced into a humiliating climbdown over their pursuit of the player. The south-coast club were furious to read stories on Monday that Liverpool were primed to complete a £60m move for the Holland centre-half and they reported them to the Premier League for an alleged illegal approach.
Southampton felt that Liverpool’s fingerprints were on the stories and they questioned how there could have been the belief at Anfield that Van Dijk wanted to join them given they had made no official approach for him. Moreover, they wondered how – as per the reports – Van Dijk might be so keen to play for Jürgen Klopp if he had not spoken to the Liverpool manager.
It has been reported that Van Dijk met Klopp in Blackpool to discuss the proposed transfer – which would have been in breach of the League’s rules on tapping-up. On Wednesday evening, Liverpool released a statement on their website in which they apologised to Southampton over “any misunderstanding” regarding the pursuit of Van Dijk and stated that they had formally dropped their interest in him.
“Liverpool Football Club would like to put on record our regret over recent media speculation regarding Southampton Football Club and player transfers between the two clubs,” the statement read. “We apologise to the owner, board of directors and fans of Southampton for any misunderstanding regarding Virgil van Dijk. We respect Southampton’s position and can confirm we have ended any interest in the player.”
Southampton wonder how Liverpool could have dropped their interest in a player about whom they had never formally enquired – a clear admission, in their opinion, of the Merseyside club’s guilt in terms of the alleged illegal approach.
The Premier League had written to both clubs on Tuesday to ask for their version of events with a view to deciding whether to launch an investigation and it is unclear, at this stage, whether Liverpool’s apology will bring an end to it. If both clubs agree that the matter is closed, it is unlikely that the League would take it further.
Liverpool are serving a two-year ban on signing academy players – the second year suspended – after they accepted making an illegal approach to a 12-year-old Stoke City player in April and it is Southampton’s contention that the Merseyside club were panicked by the accusation they made against them.
Liverpool have signed five players from Southampton in the past three years for a total of £96m – Adam Lallana, Dejan Lovren, Rickie Lambert, Nathaniel Clyne and Sadio Mané. But Southampton are adamant that Van Dijk will not tread the same path or, indeed, be prised away by any of the other clubs that covet him – namely, Chelsea and Manchester City.
Their robustness over the 25-year-old is based, in large part, on the strength of his contract; Van Dijk signed a new deal only last summer that tied him to St Mary’s until 2022. The chairman, Ralph Krueger, was typically strident when he outlined why the club had no need to sell.
“The trading in the last three summers was often out of necessity,” Krueger said. “We have contracts in place like never before. We go into the first summer ever where we do not have to sell a player. We built longevity in the contracts and that gives you a chance to move with a core of players into multiple seasons and build some synergy. Our goal is to keep the core in place.”
Chelsea and City will continue to monitor Van Dijk’s situation, although Chelsea might recoil at the £60m fee that has been mentioned. Van Dijk joined Southampton from Celtic in the summer of 2015 for £11.5m and he has been outstanding in their colours until a serious ankle injury sidelined him last January.
Los Angeles has apparently given up its bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics, a move that effectively means Paris will host the Games in seven years. LA is then expected to be the host city in 2028.
“To be blunt, LA 2024 has never been only about LA or 2024,” LA’s bid leader, Casey Wasserman, writes. “Even when the issue of a dual award for the 2024 and 2028 Games was initially raised, we didn’t say it’s ‘LA first’ or it’s ‘now or never’ for LA: that sounds like an ultimatum.
“We could have used that strategy, but we didn’t because we thought it was presumptuous to tell the IOC what to do and how to think. We’re better partners than that. It has always been our contention that LA 2024 had to make as much sense for the Olympic Movement as it did for the people of LA - and we’ve stuck to that premise.”
On Friday, it is expected that the IOC will confirm the host cities for 2024 and 2028 will be announced at a meeting in Lima on 13 September.
In the wake of Wasserman’s statement, an LA 2024 spokesman insisted it had not yet given up on hosting the 2024 Olympics.
“LA has not conceded 2024. Indeed, LA has a firm belief that it is the best host for the 2024 Games given the current situation in the Olympic movement,” said the spokesman.
The attraction of hosting the Olympics has dimmed in recent years with huge expenses and redundant venues haunting the IOC. Hamburg, Rome, Budapest and Boston have all dropped out of the bidding process for 2024, partly due to protests from citizens concerned their cities would be saddled with debts.
“There is an absolute consensus among sports economists that it is economically damaging to host the Games, unless one puts a very high value on the local population enjoying the party,” David Forrest, an economics professor at the University of Liverpool, told the Guardian in February. “The only publications attributing benefits to hosting are by consultancies paid by politicians to validate their vanity projects.”
LA (1932 and 1984) and Paris (1900 and 1924) would join London as the only cities to host the Summer Games three times, should the IOC confirm that Paris will host in 2024, with LA hosting four years later.
Andy Murray is in the semi‑finals of the French Open for the fourth year in a row, exploding the myth, surely, that clay is his weakest surface. He is now consistent on all surfaces – certainly in big tournaments – and has a fighting chance of finally adding the title to those he has won at Flushing Meadows and Wimbledon.
However, the world No1 – who arrived in Paris in ordinary form and unable to train properly because of a lingering cold – was briefly in danger of following the defending champion, Novak Djokovic, out of the tournament before defeating Kei Nishikori in a four‑set match that he began poorly and finished in style on Court Philippe Chatrier on a warm, still Wednesday afternoon.
Murray, who lost against Djokovic in the Roland Garros final last year, won 2-6, 6-1, 7-6 (7-0), 6-1 in 2hr 39min to book a place in the semi-finals on Friday against Stan Wawrinka, who breezed past Marin Cilic in 1hr 40min.
Murray said courtside: “I needed to put a little bit more pace on my shots. He was dictating all the points in the first set. Once I got a better rhythm, I was able to keep him away from the baseline and that made a big difference.”
Of his semi-final opponent, Murray said: “Stan has played fantastic this tournament. I don’t think he’s dropped a set. I had to play one of my best matches on clay to beat him last year.”
Nishikori broke twice in the first half‑hour, serving out the set without bother, and Murray needed to regroup quickly in perfect conditions once the wind dropped.
At the US Open last year, it was Nishikori who came from 1-2 down to beat Murray in the quarter-finals but, after his uneven win against Fernando Verdasco in the third round, it was still a surprise to see him start so fast here.
The match, predictably, was not without incident. The chair umpire, Carlos Ramos, gave Murray a time violation in the first set and he dropped serve, descending thereafter into a rolling rant that lasted all the way to the fourth set.
At deuce and 1-1 on Murray’s serve in the second set, Ramos interrupted him during his ball toss for a second time violation, penalising him the point, but this time the Scot was motivated to hold – not before letting the umpire know what he thought: “I’ve been on Tour so long and I’ve never seen that. Why did you do it when I was throwing the ball up?” The umpire replied: “Every single point, you are over the time.”
It was the spark that Murray needed – and Nishikori suffered. He handed him two break points with a dreadful smash and Murray was up 3-1. Within minutes, he had to save two break points – the second given up with his fourth double fault – to hold and went on to level at a set apiece.
Murray was coasting, a break up in the third set, when he dropped serve and Nishikori held to love. They worked their way to the tie-break – probably one of the worst shootouts either of them has played.
They swapped breaks again at the start of the fourth, and a worryingly familiar pattern reinstated itself. Coming into this tournament, Murray has handed back the break to his opponents 18 out of 80 times this year. Last year, he held on to his break 255 of 302 times (84%), similar to his strike rate in 2015.
That Murray managed to forge on to the finish line without blemish probably surprised him as much as everyone else.
Earlier, the erratic and tempestuous world No4, Simona Halep, who wondered before the tournament if she would even play because of a twisted ankle, defeated the fifth seed Elina Svitolina, 3-6, 7-6, 6-0, having come back from a set and 5-1 down. In the semi‑finals, she plays the second seed Karolina Pliskova, who defeated the home favourite, Caroline Garcia, 7-6, 6-4. Pliskova will become the first player from the Czech Republic to be ranked No1 in the world if she reaches the final.
British Cycling will appoint a new head of medicine, split its medical team into cure and prevention units and create British sport’s first clinical governance committee to maintain the highest standards.
The measures are the result of an independent review of the governing body’s medical services that was prompted by UK Anti-Doping’s investigation into allegations of wrongdoing within the GB team and its professional road cycling off-shoot, Team Sky.
That investigation is continuing but it has already emerged that medical record-keeping has been poor, with treatment notes missing, confusion over who has been ordering medicine at the National Cycling Centre and why, and an absence of records to show when drugs have been dispatched to races.
Commissioned by British Cycling, the review was led by English Institute of Sport director of medical services Dr Rod Jaques and he said he was “delighted” his recommendations have been approved by the governing body’s board.
In a statement, Jaques said: “I found members I met with from the British Cycling medical team to be competent professionals, working to the best of their abilities within their current structures.
“To ensure athletes are served in ways that best support performance and allow professionals to develop, the review outlines reforms that will bolster both areas and ensure that British Cycling makes changes to ensure the highest standards of professionalism and care.”
The changes, with immediate force, are part of wider reforms in response to both the Ukad investigation and an independent review looking at allegations of bullying and discrimination within the GB elite set-up. That investigation, instigated by the former GB sprinter Jess Varnish’s claims about the former technical director Shane Sutton, is expected to publish its findings next week after months of delays.
The wait for that report, though, has meant British Cycling has already made sweeping changes in personnel and practice, with a new code of conduct, chief executive, performance director, human resources head and chairman of the board.
The latter, Jonathan Browning, said: “The creation of the clinical governance committee underlines the importance of having the right people, structures and processes in place so that British Cycling can provide our athletes with best in class medical services.”
That committee will comprise British Cycling staff, including the new chief executive officer Julie Harrington, with external advisers, and will report to the board. The new head of medicine will be recruited and report to the new performance director, Stephen Park.
The medical team will be divided into a “rider health section”, which will focus on reducing the risk of injury, mental health and lifestyle education, including anti-doping, and a “medical services section” that concentrates on care and record-keeping.
A spokesman for British Cycling said these changes do not mean that the doctor at the centre of the Ukad investigation, Dr Richard Freeman, has no future at the National Cycling Centre. Freeman, who has described himself as British Cycling’s head of medicine, is off work with a stress‑related illness but is expected to return to duty when he is well enough.
The spokesman said this new head of medicine role is a more senior position with a different line manager and set of responsibilities.
Freeman was heavily criticised by MPs during a culture, media and sport select committee hearing into the allegations surrounding the GB squad and Team Sky for failing to keep adequate records of the treatment he gave riders, most notably the 2012 Tour de France winner Sir Bradley Wiggins. Both Freeman and Wiggins deny breaking any anti-doping rules.
Jos Buttler has said England intend to meet Australia’s phalanx of fast bowlers with aggression on Saturday and admitted the prospect of knocking them out of the Champions Trophy provides an extra layer of motivation.
With the top spot in Group A sewn up and a semi-final in Cardiff next Wednesday now booked following the 87-run win against New Zealand, Eoin Morgan’s side have earned a pressure-free shot at sending Australia home early when the two sides meet at a sold-out Edgbaston. Steve Smith’s world champions, whose opening two matches have been ruined by rain, feature a pace attack that could include Mitchell Starc, Josh Hazlewood and Pat Cummins and which has thus far been unable to accommodate the talents of James Pattinson.
Asked about the chance to end Australia’s campaign, Buttler said: “Yes, it would be nice. We will not think too much about that. We want to win and keep our momentum going no matter who we play. But it is always nice to know that would be the outcome if we did win.
“They are a very good side and one to be respected but we always focus on ourselves, what we can do well, and will not change our style of cricket. We will keep trying to take them on. They have got some good pace bowlers but we will try and be aggressive with the bat.”
England’s reward for beating New Zealand is a day off from training on Thursday for the team that played, while Australia started their preparations on Wednesday with a full session at Edgbaston – a ground they have not won at in any format since 2001.
“We have got some good memories of playing there,” said Buttler. “It is a ground we like playing at, which is one of the advantages of being at home, isn’t it? We have to make the most of that.”
It was Buttler who turned England’s first innings against New Zealand in Cardiff into a match-winning total, with his unbeaten 61 from 48 balls steering his side to 310 all out on a pitch that did not suit his fluent stroke-play, and in winds that reached 55mph.
In a tournament yet to come fully to life, Buttler did provide one moment for the highlights reel when a scoop for six had the cameraman on the raised gantry at the river Taff end ducking for cover – a first, said the batsman, from that particular shot. “I have not done that from a scoop shot before,” he said. “It is something I try and work hard on and with the wind it was quite helpful. It is good form when it comes off.”
Adil Rashid has admitted he might have struggled with being dropped for England’s opening fixture against Bangladesh when he was younger but instead demonstrated his maturity when returning to face New Zealand and delivering one of his most accomplished international performances to date in his 10 overs, two for 47.
England may publicly claim the end justified the means, but it felt a duff call in what has been an otherwise impressive march to the semi-finals. Any fears over the impact on his previous exclusion were misplaced, however: “When I was younger, 10 years ago, maybe [I would have taken it badly]. But I think now, because of the way the team is, we back each other whether we play or not, it’s all together – 15 in the squad.”
Rashid has been a player saddled by expectation ever since he spun Yorkshire to victory over Warwickshire on his first-class debut with a six-wicket haul at Scarborough in 2006. While a brief international spell followed three years later – including the World Twenty20 that summer – it is a wiser and more relaxed cricketer turning out for his country these days.
“As you get older, play more, you experience more situations in games and how to react to them,” said Rashid, whose 47 caps have now yielded 65 wickets, 62 of which have come in the last two years. “Over the years I have gone better and when things don’t go quite so well, that experience can kick in.
“Sometimes when you don’t play, you think: ‘I’ve got to make sure I perform in the next game.’ But for me it wasn’t so much that. My mind was clear because I’ve been in this position before. I knew I needed to go out, relax, do what I have to do – bowl, mix it up, variations.”
With an eye patch and bushy beard, the face of Jack O’Neill, who has died aged 94, was known around the world as a logo for the company that bore his name. O’Neill was celebrated as a pioneer, if not inventor, of the wetsuit, which opened up colder waters to surfers, and the company that grew out of his tiny surf shop went on to sell sportswear that captured the imagination of surfers and skateboarders, eventually becoming a sought-after fashion brand.
O’Neill developed the wetsuit out of necessity: “I just wanted to surf longer,” he explained. Surfing San Francisco’s Ocean Beach, O’Neill and his fellow surfers tried to cope with the icy waters of northern California by soaking sweaters in oily water sealants. But it was the realisation that you do not need to stay dry in order to stay warm (hence the term “wet” suit) that prompted his move to the use of neoprene, in 1951. He had first tried stuffing PVC into swimming bodysuits, but as it absorbed water, it added too much weight to allow surfing.
The question of invention, or where the idea for neoprene came from, is a moot point. O’Neill originally claimed to have discovered neoprene in aeroplane carpets, but the flammable substance was never used for that. He later attributed it to a tip from a pharmacy student at San Francisco State University, Harry Hind.
Competing claims came from Bob Meistrell, who with his brother started Body Glove in Redondo Beach, south of Los Angeles. Meistrell and O’Neill traded threats of legal action for years until the Meistrells’ top surfer, Bev Morgan, revealed he had suggested neoprene to them after reading a paper by a University of California scientist, Hugh Bradner, who had successfully tested neoprene diving suits in 1950 but had never marketed his invention outside the technical world. O’Neill may not have been first, but it was his melding of a nylon interior to the neoprene shell that made the wetsuit suitable for the sport of surfers.
All my friends said, "Jack, you'll sell to five friends on the beach and then you'll be out of business"
O’Neill was born in Denver, Colorado, but his family moved to Long Beach, California, in which he became an avid body surfer. After the second world war, where he served as a US Navy flyer, he moved to Oregon to study business at Portland University and first encountered colder waters. After graduating in 1949, O’Neill settled in Ocean Beach, working as a lifeguard, longshoreman, fisherman, taxi driver and salesman.
He continued to surf, and recalled being fired from one job when he expelled salt water from his nose during a sales meeting. In 1952, he and his wife, the former Marjorie Bennett, opened what he called the Surf Shop in a garage on the Great Highway next to Ocean Beach. “All my friends said, ‘Jack, you’ll sell to five friends on the beach and then you’ll be out of business’,” he recalled.
In 1959 the family moved 75 miles south, to Cowell Beach in Santa Cruz, where he opened another shop. Although he trademarked the name Surf Shop, he never enforced his exclusivity against any of the hundreds of others using the same title. The O’Neill wetsuit, sold with the slogan “It’s Always Summer Inside”, a take on the classic surfing documentary The Endless Summer, led to a rapid growth in sales and expansion into other products. In 1971, O’Neill lost an eye while testing the now-common surf leash, developed by his son, Pat. In typical fashion, he turned the eyepatch into a symbol of his company.
O’Neill invented the sand sailer, a sailing boat on wheels for use at beaches, and continued to fly, primarily in hot air balloons, decorated in O’Neill colours, in which he would drop in to surfing competitions. By the 1980s, when his was the largest-selling wetsuit in the world, the company’s surf brand became a fashion accessory. Eventually the firm became part of an international conglomerate, though Pat still runs the business.
But in 1964, Jack had set up his O’Neill Surf Team, which provided new boards for kids in the Santa Cruz area, and in 1996 he set up O’Neill Sea Odyssey, a marine environmental education programme that has taken about 100,000 children on its catamaran around Monterey Bay national marine sanctuary. His own home, on Pleasure Point in Santa Cruz, overlooked what is now designated officially a world surfing reserve. “The ocean is alive,” he said, “and we’ve got to take care of it.”
O’Neill is survived by his second wife, Noriko, his sons, Pat, Tim and Jack, and daughters, Cathi, Bridget and Shawne. Another son, Michael, died in 2012.
• Jack O’Neill, surfer and businessman, born 27 March 1923; died 2 June 2017
The insertion of an earth-shattering event into a trundling everyday narrative is a common enough literary device. That was probably the best way to frame Michy Batshuayi’s title-winning contribution for Chelsea – an intervention as audacious as someone reading you the last paragraph of a novel you’d spent 700 pages toiling over. You might think Batshuayi, previously more impactful through his chirpy use of Twitter, would have warmed to his new role as champion shock jock but – struck down by the loose-tongue affliction that seems to afflict Belgians more than most when away on international duty – he had a very different kind of surprise in store for those who hold his fortunes dear.
“No, no, no. Everyone knows that I have to play more, that I have to score goals,” he protested when asked if he would accept next season panning out in a similar way on Chelsea’s substitute bench. There’s a World Cup coming up next year. I want to be ready for the World Cup.” Sitting it out until his winning penalty kick in the final appears not to be an option after all – so where will he be able to find the net regularly if not at Chelsea?
Perhaps it might happen to be at Sevilla, because things happen to just happen at Sevilla, without anyone having realise they’re happening. Another of last season’s yes-he-really-did-play-for-them quiz questions of the future, Manchester City’s Nolito, has been spotted in a Seville ice cream parlour and – whaddya know – just happened to catch the club’s sporting director Óscar Arias sprinkling on the hundreds and thousands.
“I was just casually shopping for clothes for my wife in Seville,” he said. “I went to get a coffee and bumped into Sevilla’s director of football casually.” All very casual, then, and certainly more casual than the disturbing revelation that his daughter’s face has “changed colour” and she “looks like she has been living in a cave” since living in rainy Manchester.
Neither can claim to rival David Lynch, but both Batshuayi and Nolito show an encouraging capability to subvert the mundane, something the Fiver wouldn’t know anything about. Besides, there is a beauty in the mundane: in running though Manchester drizzle, in spending another 90 minutes on a warm bench showing Ruben Loftus-Cheek how many retweets your last post got, in downing 3.8% Tin, in cosying up for another Wednesday night with Weird Uncle Fiver. Why would you want to do anything else?

31 May: “Piqué you bastard, salute the champions!” – Sergio Ramos starts a new chant during Real Madrid’s La Liga title celebrations.
7 June: “This is a show that people consume a lot. Sergio and I know our relationship, it is very respectful and very cordial” – Gerard Piqué on international duty with Sergio Ramos.
“Other teams look for winners, but you feel Dortmund may have accepted the inevitable, what with being in the same league as Bayern Munich and all, and appointed the perfect coach in Peter Bosz, specialist in running-up, as José might say” – David Hill.
With regard to your Van Dijk, er, rambling; at least you managed to take the words right out of my mouth with your final line: please God make it stop” – Ian.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … David Hill.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
26 min: Ivan Bandalovski takes a swig of beer from a can thrown on to the pitch
90 min: Ivan Bandalovski scores injury-time equaliser.
The FA has issued its first life bans on England fans after seeing footage of supporters doing Nazi salute and making slit-throat gestures.
Liverpool are so worried about paying too much money for Roma’s Mohamed Salah that they are instead considering spending too much Sporting Lisbon’s Gelson Martins – who scored a whopping six league goals last year – who has a buy-out clause of just €60m (£52m).
Romelu Lukaku has admitted that he wants to leave Everton. “Staying at Everton is not really an option. I am staying calm about everything,” he yelped, as 15 club suits booked the next flight to John Lennon Airport.
Just six caps shy of a century of appearances for Turkey, Arda Turan has quit international football after a set-to with a reporter on a flight back from Macedonia with the national team. “Do I regret it? No, I feel like a bird because I never forgot what was said about me,” he clarified, forgetting his elephant simile.
David Beckham. Miami. Oh, it’s on!
Jack Butland is back from ‘rock bottom’ into Gareth Southgate’s England reckoning. Nothing to do with Dwayne Johnson, but still worth a read.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
Sid Lowe has got a soft spot for Pepe. Haven’t we all?
New Arsenal signing Sead Kolasinac is like a tree, according to a former coach. Rather than being static at corners and fading in winter, Jonathan Wilson explains how the 23-year-old’s strength should help the Gunners next season.
Is it lucky for Tories when Chelsea win the league? The history of title win/election year combos is extensively trawled in this week’s Knowledge.
Majestic. Regal. Lordly. Paul Doyle doesn’t scrimp on the praise in this assessment of Virgil van Dijk, who he reckons would be a very significant signing for Liverpool.
In the recent absence of 10 talking points, Adam White and Eric Devin have identified 10 players from Ligue 1 that could move this summer for big bucks.
“Arsène Wenger is proactive. He’s dynamic, he’s in charge and he’s going to sign your players.” So begins Nick Ames’s Rumour Mill.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
When Paul Simpson took England to South Korea for the Under-20 World Cup finals one of the biggest battles he had to fight was that of perception. Few observers, at home or abroad, have had much cause to consider that England take the competition seriously and unfavourable impressions can be virulently contagious. The statistics were grim: 17 games on this stage without a win stretching back to 1997, and that accounted only for the occasions on which they had qualified.
Simpson’s squad have turned it all round and stand on the verge of making history. Victory over Italy in Jeonju on Thursday would bring a first appearance in the final. England have overcome a broad range of challenges, and the occasional wobble, in getting this far and have played with an intensity that treats this competition in the way it is so often regarded abroad: as a big deal. “The players know the importance of what they’ve achieved,” he says. “There’s a steely determination about them and they want to go out there and achieve something. So far, so good, but we really want to make that next step and go to the final.”
England will have been together for 35 days by the end of the tournament on Sunday and Simpson speaks glowingly of a group that “has not given me one moment of a problem”. They have made a positive impression with their courtesy towards hosts and Fifa officials; there has been a keenness within the England set up to show that they are serious this time and, in reaching the last four for the first time since 1993, their approach has paid off on all fronts.
“We want to be recognised as good people but we want to be recognised as good football players as well,” Simpson says, and a squad bolstered through rare levels of co-operation from Premier League clubs has stepped up. In previous years an England campaign might have been remembered for the moment a fortnight ago when, with the team a goal up in the group stage against Guinea, the Chelsea defender Fikayo Tomori drilled a 45-yard backpass past his own goalkeeper with no danger in sight. That now seems the smallest kink in a run that has brought wins against Argentina, South Korea, Costa Rica and, in Monday’s quarter-final, Mexico.
“We couldn’t have chosen a tougher first game than Argentina; they had so much of the ball but we were just clinical in both 18-yard boxes and killed the game,” Simpson says of a tone-setting 3-0 victory. “South Korea was another tough game where our only supporters were probably a handful of our players’ families. Costa Rica and Mexico were also difficult and I know that Italy will be a hell of a tough task – they look to be a typical well-drilled, well-organised Italian side.”
It is a fair impression, although Italy have not found goals hard to come by. They won a wild quarter-final against Zambia 3-2 despite spending almost 80 of the 120 minutes with 10 men; the Juventus forward Riccardo Orsolini has scored four times in the tournament and the impression before Thursday’s fixture is of two finely -balanced sides who may go the distance again.
Simpson was pleased to see his striker Dominic Solanke score the winner against Mexico days after the player’s move to Liverpool was confirmed. Solanke did not play a senior game last season, a situation said partly to have been rooted in a contract stand-off with his former club Chelsea, and his international manager regards him as an “incredible guy” for dealing with the frustration.
“He’d been a little slow to find his feet but I thought his performance against Mexico was outstanding,” Simpson says. “He really brought his game to the party, and I’m sure that it’s because his situation has now been resolved and it’s out in the open. That must have been a real burden to have hanging over him. Hopefully he can perform in the semis and show everyone what a top footballer he is capable of being.”
Plenty of others have come through with their stock raised, although Simpson will have to do without one important player against Italy after Josh Onomah, of Tottenham, was shown what the manager – along with most others – perceived was an “absolutely ridiculous” red card late in the Mexico game. That was the first real negative of England’s past three weeks but it has made no mark on their appetite to harness the new-found optimism.
“These lads have got an opportunity to play in a World Cup semi-final and not many players can say that – certainly not many English players anyway,” Simpson says. “We just hope they enjoy the challenge, grasp it and give it everything they’ve got.”
Italy v England; noon, British Eurosport 2
The last time England reached the semi-finals of the Under-20 World Cup, the side coached by David Burnside were beaten 2-1 by Ghana. But what happened to the boys of ‘93?
David Watson: Went on to make nearly 200 appearances for Barnsley and is now goalkeeping coach at Southampton having also worked under Roy Hodgson for England.
Steve Watson: Versatile defender and midfielder was part of Kevin Keegan’s Newcastle revolution before moving to Aston Villa, Everton, West Brom and Sheffield Wednesday. Has since managed Macclesfield.
David Unsworth: The Everton stalwart made more than 300 appearances at Goodison Park over two spells and returned as a coach in 2013. He is now head coach of the club’s Under-21 side.
Marvin Harriot: Began career at Luton and made 36 appearances for Bristol City before moving into non-league football.
Ian Pearce: Went on to win the Premier League title with Blackburn under Kenny Dalglish before joining West Ham and Fulham. Also had a spell as Chris Sutton’s assistant at Lincoln City.
Anthony Hughes: The talented defender played only 23 matches for Crewe in the Football League before quitting the game at 29 after a spell at Morecambe.
Darren Caskey: The team captain only made 42 appearances for boyhood side Tottenham before moving on to Reading and Notts County. Now the football consultant at York City.
Jamie Pollock: Middlesbrough youth team product went on to have spells with Bolton, Manchester City and Crystal Palace before retiring in 2001. Now co-owner of a glass and glazing company based in Middlesbrough.
Julian Joachim: Starred for Leicester as a young player and went on to have spells at Aston Villa, Coventry and Leeds. Now a scout and agent having previously owned a Chinese restaurant.
Chris Bart-Williams: Made his debut for Leyton Orient at 16 before moving to Sheffield Wednesday and then Nottingham Forest. Won one cap for England B before ending his career in Malta.
Alan Thompson: A product of Newcastle’s youth system, Thompson moved to Bolton in 1993 and then had a successful spell with Celtic, winning a solitary England cap in 2004. Now assistant coach at Bury.
Katarzyna Niewiadoma soloed to victory on the opening stage of the Women’s Tour to seize control of the battle for overall victory.
The 22-year-old Pole, among the pre-race favourites, broke clear with a little under 50km remaining of the 147.5km stage from Daventry to Kettering, and her rivals left it too late to respond.
It was a first win of the year for Niewiadoma, the Polish national champion, who is here as the race leader for the WM3 team despite the inclusion in the squad of the great Marianne Vos – winner of the inaugural Women’s Tour in 2014.
It was Vos who crossed the line in second place one minute and 46 seconds down, leading in the pack that contained the 2016 winner Lizzie Deignan (Boels-Dolmans) and the rest of the general classification hopefuls.
Alice Barnes (Drops) was the highest British finisher in seventh place, while the French rider Audrey Cordon-Ragot of the British team Wiggle High5 took the first Queen of the Mountains jersey by crossing the two main climbs of the day in first place.
After making her move Niewiadoma quickly pulled out a commanding lead, and it was allowed to grow to more than three minutes before the peloton got organised in their chase, with Boels-Dolmans taking the initiative.
But they were running out of road and, when Niewiadoma passed the 10km to go marker with more than two minutes in hand, it was clear where victory was going.
Thursday’s second stage, a 144.5km route around Stoke-on-Trent, contains a number of testing climbs and should help shape the general classification battle further before the sprinters can hope to have their chance in Leamington Spa on Saturday. The race will conclude on Sunday with a stage in London.
At the Critérium du Dauphiné, the Australian Richie Porte sent a warning to his Tour de France rivals by winning fourth stage, a 23.5km individual time trial, as Chris Froome struggled.
The BMC rider Porte clocked a best time of 28 minutes 7 seconds to beat the German Tony Martin (Katusha-Alpecin) by 12 seconds and Spain’s Alejandro Valverde (Movistar) by 24.
The Belgian Thomas De Gendt (Lotto-Soudal) retained the overall leader’s yellow jersey after the solo effort between La Tour du Pin and Bourgoin-Jallieu.
Team Sky’s Froome, the defending champion who tipped Porte as possibly his main rival for the Tour, produced a below-par performance as he finished 37 seconds off the pace.
However, results are hard to assess on the Dauphine as top riders usually use it as a Tour warm-up and try not to peak to soon ahead of the gruelling three-week race, which starts on 1 July.
Spain’s Alberto Contador (Trek-Segafredo) was two seconds ahead of Froome, while last year’s Tour de France runner-up Romain Bardet (AG2R-La Mondiale) lost almost two minutes.
Drawing conclusions this early in a British & Irish Lions tour can be dangerous but there is one that can already be made with certainty: the phrase “rugby chaos” must be banished from the tourists’ vocabulary, never to return.
It always had the whiff of a soundbite, dreamt up by an anxious PR team eager to deflect attention from negative “Warrenball” headlines, but with a laborious opening victory now followed by defeat against the weakest of Super Rugby sides the Lions will face, it has backfired with an irony not lost on the caustic New Zealand press.
With four years of preparation Warren Gatland would not have at his disposal players who offload with the instinctive ability of Sonny Bill Williams or who attack with the grace of Rieko Ioane. To even suggest that the Lions will be in a position to take on anyone in New Zealand at their own game is ludicrous. Gatland’s side, particularly the backs, may lack the X-factor he speaks of, but they will not find it trying to mimic their opponents.
Instead the Lions must master what they are best at but Gatland’s greatest problem is that he does not yet know precisely what that is. Limited preparation makes it understandable but still the Lions are playing as if disadvantaged that the cream of the British Isles has been pooled. Whether it becomes an advantage – whether in this day and age that is possible – is the million-dollar question.
For it is not much of a reach to say that each of the four home nations would beat the Blues and four years ago the Lions succeeded largely because Gatland could rely on the spine of his Wales team against a below-par Australia side. It was less a mixture of the four home nations, more the best of the rest bolted on to a team Gatland knew inside out.
Increasingly Steve Hansen’s claim that the Lions would be foolish to attempt to replicate Ireland’s win against the All Blacks in Chicago appears diversionary. New Zealand were beaten that day by a side who got the basics right with unerring accuracy and if that does not sound quite like X-factor, it may be the next best thing for Gatland.
Back to events at Eden Park, though, and the temptation when looking for positives is to highlight Maro Itoje’s enthusiasm, Courtney Lawes’s work rate or Rhys Webb’s command of his forwards but to focus on individuals only underscores Gatland’s problem. In terms of cohesiveness, the scrum and the defensive line speed were encouraging but ill-discipline is more of a worry than those two pluses combined.
The lineout, meanwhile, cannot be considered a success because of the shambolic attempt in the final minute. Hookers can often take too much of the blame for a malfunctioning lineout but Rory Best has previous in this kind of do-or-die situation. He snatched at his throw, missed his man and the Lions were condemned to a morale-draining defeat.
Indeed, it is the final five minutes, after Ihaia West’s dazzling late try, that should be pored over before facing the Crusaders. The Lions rumbled up the middle only for Joe Marler to concede a needless penalty, before Best’s aberration, which again raises the question of why Dylan Hartley is not in New Zealand. He is the best throwing hooker in the northern hemisphere and the Lions are finding out what it feels like when these chances are not taken.
Fortunately for Gatland he has largely kept Owen Farrell under wraps until now and he is the most accurate fly-half at his disposal. But while his shoulders are broad it may be stretching it to pin the Lions’ hopes on his talents already – in both matches the backs have appeared lifeless even beyond the Saracen’s restorative powers. They do not have to offload out of every tackle but they must be sharper than the blunt instrument on show so far.
And they must be clinical – Jared Payne’s first-half try was correctly disallowed but that must be viewed as a missed open goal considering the Lions’ backs did not come close to creating a similar opportunity again. The expectation is that the starting XV against the Crusaders will not be far off that for the first Test but if the Blues match was one the Lions dare not lose then what does that make the trip to Christchurch to face the only undefeated side in this year’s Super Rugby competition?
It is here that Gatland must earn his corn. Months ago he celebrated the fact that the Super Rugby sides would be at full strength and that the Lions would be battle-hardened for the Test series. He continued to push that narrative in defeat but it is all the more difficult when his squad are already being written off as no-hopers. Gatland, however, must keep his nerve and instil an identity into this side that maximises their strengths both in the pack and behind it.
For it was not “chaos” that ensured the Blues won the day. It was clear thinking, trusting a skill-set that has been honed since childhood – relying on their point of difference when the stakes are highest – and the Lions must find a way to do the same. Chaos is the last thing they need.
Some NFL players are notoriously reluctant to attend pre-season workouts. Buffalo Bills cornerback Shareece Wright is not one of them.
Wright joined the Bills last month and found himself at Chicago’s O’Hare Airport at 11pm on Sunday faced with a 550-mile, trip to reach the Bills’ practice facilities the next morning.
“My flight ended up getting in late, so I wasn’t able to make my connecting flight,” Wright told the Bills website. He did not rent a car as he wanted to sleep before meeting up with his new team. “I called one of my ex-teammates that lives in Chicago ... and he wasn’t able to take me and Uber was my next thought.”
He soon find a driver, willing to take him. “This guy accepted the ride and I called him right away and told him, ‘Man, I need to go to Buffalo, NY that’s eight hours are you willing to take me there?’ and he said, ‘Yeah, man, I’ll take you anywhere you need to go. I told him the situation. I told him I had to make it there by 7am.”
The cost of an @uber from Chicago to Buffalo $632.08 fare + $300 tip = $932.08 https://t.co/Esxgt9OeK8
His ride cost him $632.08 – price surging doesn’t appear to have been in effect at the time – and tipped his driver $300. Wright is due to make $775,000 this year and has career earnings of $10.8m.
The Bills’ practice this week was voluntary but as a new member of the team, Wright will need to become familiar with a new defensive scheme.
Taking this long drive with @chadj19 and @mikeyj14 back to greenbay.
Earlier this week, the Green Bay Packers cornerback Davon House also needed help getting to practice after missing a flight. He put out a call for help on Twitter and brothers Chad and Mike Johnson gave him a four-hour lift to the team’s facility. “I went to bed and I was scrolling through my Twitter and saw he needed a ride,” Chad Johnson said. “My brother lives in Hudson, [Wisconsin]; I’m in Eau Claire. I tweeted him that ‘I could come pick you up,’ and in the meantime I texted my brother that House needs a ride. My brother also tweeted him. He was closer so he swung up to the airport and picked him up, and I met him on Highway 29 so my brother and I could keep each other awake.”
Dame Di Ellis, who has died aged 79, was a most unlikely physical specimen to ascend to the summit of British rowing. At 5ft 3in tall, she occupied a coxswain’s frame in a world of lofty men and women. But her skills as a competitor, manager and manipulator – in the best sense of the word – took her to the head of one of Britain’s most successful Olympic sports, and propelled her into the orbit of national and international sports institutions.
Competitively, she rowed for Great Britain in 1966, as part of the women’s eight at the European championships, coxed the England women’s four to gold in the 1972 home countries match, and won the women’s eights head of the river race seven times, four as a cox and three as a rower, from 1966 to 1973. She became the first national champion in 1972 on the new 2,000-metre course at Holme Pierrepont, near Nottingham.
However it was as an official that she made her biggest mark. As chair of the Amateur Rowing Association (ARA, which became British Rowing in 2009, much at her behest) for 24 years from 1989, she transformed the amateur body, which was in an impoverished muddle when she took over, into a professionally run and well-funded sport.
It was Di who persuaded David Tanner to take early retirement as a headteacher and set up the high performance rowing programme that has consistently produced Olympic gold medals since the National Lottery came on stream after 1996, when Steve Redgrave and Matt Pinsent won Britain’s only gold medal at the Atlanta games. Tanner described her as “a pulse of the sport, a pioneer, a very strong administrator and leader”.
Di also expanded and developed women’s rowing, which became a phenomenon during her 60 years in the sport. In 1997 she was the first woman elected as a steward of Henley Royal Regatta. Today about 20% of Henley’s stewards are women, and this year the regatta introduces three new events for women to bring their open events on a par with those for men. Meanwhile, Henley Women’s Regatta has grown from modest beginnings in 1988 to an enormous three-day event.
The second of three daughters of Robert Hall, a proof reader, and his wife, Mabel (nee Steadman), a nurse, Di attended Ealing girls’ school, in west London, and Guildford College of Technology, Surrey, where she studied management and nutrition. This led to a career with Surrey county council that included management of the school meal service.
She began “messing about in boats” as a teenage Sea Ranger, and competed for Middlesex, becoming a one-oar “sculling-over-the-stern” champion from 1954 to 1957. In 1960 she began rowing at St George’s Ladies rowing club, one of the first clubs to be affiliated to the Women’s Amateur Rowing Association. In 1966, the same year she began her winning streak in the head of the river race, she married John Ellis, a bank official.
She qualified as an umpire in 1978, was secretary of the national championships and chairman of the women’s commission of ARA (both 1984-87), and was made GB team manager in 1988, before taking up the ARA chair.
Di touched every part of the sport, from grassroots to elite, local to international. She was a sound voice as leader of the British delegation at the congress of the international rowing federation, or Fisa (world rowing’s governing body), from 1989 to 2013. Her abilities as a doer and a fixer resulted in a seat on the British Olympic Association in 1995 and promotion to the board (1997-2013). She was on the organising committees of the world championships at Strathclyde in 1996 and Eton Dorney in 2006, and the world junior championships in 2011 and world cup in 2013, both at Dorney.
She held trusteeships and board seats on a host of sporting organisations, including the River & Rowing Museum (2007-15) and the British Olympic Foundation. She won awards from the International Olympic Committee for services to women’s sport and from Fisa for distinguished service to international rowing. She was made a vice-president of the British Olympic Association in 2013 and honorary president of British Rowing in 2014. She was appointed CBE for services to rowing in 2004 and made a dame for services to sport in 2013.
Latterly she was in charge of the three-person team in the finishing tower at Henley. The team clock crews crossing the line by aligning a piece of cord with a black strip on the opposite side of the course. They have a monitor to follow the progress of a race, consult a waterline photo-finish camera if the result is in doubt, check that the umpire raises a white flag to indicate a completed race, translate seconds into “lengths” and pass the verdict to the commentary box.
It is a well-rehearsed routine that is hair-raising during close races, and Di possessed the temperament for it. “She was a very capable administrator,” said the former chairman of the regatta, Mike Sweeney. “She got things done and smoothed out rough water.”
Di is survived by John, their daughter, Claire, grandsons, Daniel and Joseph, and her sisters, Janet and Sue.
• Diana Margaret Ellis, rower and sports official, born 11 April 1938; died 18 May 2017
The very last time Pepe put on his Real Madrid kit and ran on to the pitch, it wasn’t to play. Képler Laveran Lima Ferreira joined team-mates in celebrations at the Santiago Bernabéu on Sunday evening wearing all white, knowing that he will not be back. The day before, he had been left out of the squad for the Champions League final at the Millennium Stadium; the night after, he finally confirmed what had long been an open secret: “It’s clear that I won’t be continuing at Madrid,” he said. There was sadness as he said it. There was a touch of bitterness, too. Ten years on, he was going.
At 34 and into the final year of his contract, Pepe had publicly said he would wait for Madrid “until the end”, but eventually gave up in April. He wanted to stay and asked for a two-year deal; Madrid offered only one. Most of his stuff has been in storage for the past two months, shipped back to Portugal, awaiting his next destination, which appears likely to be France. He knew it would end but it was not supposed to be like this. Everyone else knew it too, even as he kept silent – not least because he kept silent, in fact. He was the only player, with Fábio Coentrão, nowhere to be seen at the club’s pre-final media day.
When Madrid won the league in Málaga, Pepe filmed celebrations from the touchline, selfie stick in hand. In Cardiff, he joined them having watched the game from the stands. When they returned, visiting the cathedral and the town hall, he hung back. At the Bernabéu celebrations there was a photo with Cristiano Ronaldo in the dressing room – “with my friend Pepito”, Ronaldo wrote – before his farewell in front of the fans. He didn’t say goodbye to Zinedine Zidane, he admitted pointedly, as the coach already knew he was off – before he himself had.
The following night, party packed up, Pepe said that Madrid’s treatment of him had “not been right”. His complaints, made on the radio station Cadena Cope, have changed the atmosphere, ending things in a way that few expected, but beyond that immediate irritation, there will surely be gratitude for the past 10 years. Pepe said that Madrid had not protected him amid accusations of tax evasion; admitted that, unusually among the squad, he had connected better with Rafa Benítez than with Zidane; and expressed his disappointment that no one from the board had called him after he had cracked his ribs against Atlético Madrid on 8 April.
As it turned out, that was the last time he ever played for Madrid. Before he had been forced to withdraw, he had scored the goal that had put Madrid into the lead. He celebrated with a raised finger, Madrid badge held between his teeth. That image felt appropriate; fans at the Bernabéu have long appreciated him, celebrated him. Team-mates, too. When Pepe arrived from Porto for €30m, one question was asked repeatedly: “Who is Pepe?!” He leaves with three league titles, three European Cups and having played 334 games. Only five foreigners ever played more than the Brazilian-born Portugal defender.
Who is Pepe? For a long time, the answer from some was a villain, public enemy No1. Rival supporters chanted: “Assasin! Assasin!” at him. Catalan TV3 depicted him as Hannibal Lecter; Madrid tried, and failed, to sue. Few forgot that image of him treading on Leo Messi’s hand. In the aftermath of a series of tense clásicos in 2012 which turned genuinely nasty, he accused Barcelona’s players of acting. Andrés Iniesta admitted that he was offended, but scoffed: “What’s Pepe going to say?” He added: “We could do a whole video of his fouls. We all know him.”
On the pitch, perhaps. Off it, he was one of the most likable members of Real Madrid’s squad: approachable, friendly, funny, even gentle. It is not so unusual: there are plenty of players like that, men whose team-mates love them even as they admit they are transformed out there. Pepe was always remembered best for his attack on Getafe’s Javier Casquero in April 2009. At the time, there was no doubt that he was one of the toughest, most aggressive defenders in Spain, often a little wild, sometimes dirty, but that night was something else.
Pepe pushed Casquero over, kicked him twice in the back, raking his studs across Casquero’s spine, punched Juan Albín, and walked off calling them all “sons of bitches”. He was handed a 10-game ban, the sixth-biggest in Spanish football history, allowing some in the capital to present it as if he were the victim. Without him, Madrid lost five of the next six, the title slipping away.
He was hurt, he said. He said he didn’t recognise himself; he had gone “absolutely mad”. He described those days as “the worst days of his life”, and said he had spent much of the time in tears. Madrid’s full-back Marcelo said: “I have never seen him like this.” Pepe apologised to the Getafe players and to “football as a whole” but not to his team-mates, at least not straight away. “I suppose he doesn’t want to talk about it,” Christoph Metzelder said. “I hope he will soon be the happy lad we all know.” Pepe said: “I’m not sure I have the will to keep playing at the moment.”
He did, of course. He sought professional help to control himself. He didn’t exactly become an angel and certainly not straight away – those battles with Barcelona were still three years off, and fans celebrated his aggressiveness – but nothing quite like that happened again. And with time, maturity, his game did change, as did people’s perceptions – especially after the departure of José Mourinho. Pepe’s last red card for Real Madrid was in 2011. He has not been in double figures for yellow cards for four seasons.
Although some clung to that image, it wasn’t him. He came to be seen not just as a pantomime bad guy but a player and a very good one. The chant “Pepe, mátalo!” became “Pepe, marca un gol!”: they had gone from “Pepe, kill him!” to “Pepe, score a goal!”. In truth, his own fans had always liked the bad guy, too, but mostly they liked this defender: reliable, dependable, committed. He had become a symbol for the club, a captain without the armband. It was reported on Tuesday morning in Spain that the club were arranging a farewell for him. Sources at the club were quoted as calling his commitment and performance impeccable. At that point, they had not yet heard his comments from the night before.
Increasingly, he led. There was personality on and off the pitch that was appreciated. He ended up falling out with Mourinho when he publicly stood up for Iker Casillas, calling out the coach for his treatment of the club captain. Mourinho replied that, at heart, Pepe’s problem was that he was a 30-year-old who couldn’t take being “run over” by the 19-year-old Raphaël Varane. The manager described it as “life”, but there was life left in Pepe.
At that point, in May 2013, he was thinking about a departure but Carlo Ancelotti convinced him that he would be important. He trusted in Pepe. Varane was talented, he said, but “Pepe is Pepe”. Ancelotti said: “We’re more assured with him. He gives us confidence, personality and he helps the other players; he is very important for them.” The Italian coach always spoke admiringly of the defender’s honesty and professionalism in admitting that he wasn’t fully fit before the 2014 European Cup final against Atlético in Lisbon. In Milan, two years later, he started, aged 33, and he was superb. There is an argument to suggest that he was also Portugal’s best player at Euro 2016. A year on, injuries interrupted his season, although he impressed every time he was available, and the contract he waited for never came. On Monday night he admitted what had become an open secret.
Pepe once said that when he retires he would like to travel the world in a caravan. That’s still some way off. He believes he has matches left in him, just not, he now knows, for Madrid.
Liverpool are in talks with Sporting Lisbon regarding a deal for the winger Gelson Martins as the club continue their quest to bring more pace to their attack.
The Anfield club have been in negotiations with Roma about Mohamed Salah, but fear being priced out of a move for the Egypt international and Martins is seen as another viable option.
It has been claimed in Portugal that Martins has a buyout clause of €60m (£52m), but that Sporting’s failure to qualify for the Champions League means they would take €50m euros. The 22-year-old made 44 appearances last season, scoring seven goals and providing 14 assists, and produced a particularly impressive individual performance against Real Madrid at the Bernabéu in the Champions League in September.
Jürgen Klopp is known to want to add more pace to his side for next term. It is understood Liverpool have also been monitoring Keita Baldé at Lazio and Bayern Munich’s Douglas Costa in addition to Salah and Martins.
Roma’s valuation of Salah is believed to be far in excess of Liverpool’s, who had a £28m bid rejected last week,with the Serie A club asking for more than the €40m being reported in Italy. Roma’s American chairman, James Pallotta, told the US radio station SiriusXM: “For the moment, there is nothing with Liverpool. We’ll see what to do.” However, that did not prevent Salah, away on international duty, allowing himself to be pictured with two fans holding Liverpool shirts.
Klopp is keen to significantly strengthen his squad this summer in preparation for Champions League football and has been linked with a move for the Southampton centre-back Virgil van Dijk.
It is understood the Holland international has made Anfield his preferred destination, should he leave St Mary’s, although Saints have asked the Premier League to investigate an alleged illegal approach from Liverpool for the player.
Steven Gerrard believes the 25-year-old’s capture would be a major boost for the club. The former Liverpool captain said at an event in Belfast: “I’d love to see him in a red shirt. I’m a huge fan. I thought he was fantastic at Celtic and I thought we should have had a go for him back then. It will cost us a few more quid but I think he is a piece of the jigsaw that would be very welcome and very big for this team.”
It is difficult to understate the impact Kylian Mbappé’s clinical finishing, terrifying pace and prodigious skill have had this season. His emergence at the turn of the calendar year was the catalyst for Monaco as they turned on the afterburners and intensified their already scintillating form, taking the Ligue 1 title and galloping into the Champions League semi-finals. At just 18, he became the only man to score in his first four Champions League knockout games. He also scored 15 goals in 17 appearances in Ligue 1 and laid on eight assists. Young players regularly burst on to the scene in France – Sofiane Boufal and Ousmane Dembélé were the trailblazers last season – but Mbappé is on another planet entirely. His fluid, graceful style and unerring finishing draw natural comparisons with Thierry Henry. Yet, his warp-speed acceleration and ability to bamboozle defenders make him more like a young Ronaldo. The Brazilian was nicknamed “The Phenomenon”; it might be time to pass on that sobriquet.
Interested: Arsenal, Manchester City, Manchester United, Real MadridEstimated value: €150m
This season has been a frustrating one for Rennes. They sold both of their wingers – prize asset Paul-Georges Ntep to Wolfsburg and longtime super-sub Kamil Grosicki to Hull City – and did not replace either of them. They finished ninth, without a place in Europe, but the development of 20-year-old defensive powerhouse Joris Gnagnon gave the club a rare bright spot. Gnagnon’s impressive physique is a clear asset but he has also proven to be an intelligent and wily operator, exhibiting superb positional play, anticipation and an astute ability to cover for his colleagues. With manager Christian Gourcuff now describing him as the leader of Rennes’ back four, bigger clubs are circling. Holding on to Gnagnon this summer will be a serious challenge for a side without clear ambitions for the forthcoming campaign. A sizeable offer may be inevitable and impossible to turn down.
Interested: Monaco, Bayer Leverkusen, Borussia Dortmund, Borussia Mönchengladbach, Chelsea, Inter, Sevilla, Tottenham.Estimated value: €25m
Monaco have Fabinho, Paris Saint-Germain have Marco Verratti, and Nice have Jean-Michaël Seri. Fabinho and Verratti dictated play for the top two clubs in Ligue 1 this season and the Ivorian did the same for Nice. He should be considered as on par with the Brazilian and Italian as a deep-lying playmaker and passer. Seri can pick up the ball from his centre-backs and either command the pace and direction of play with his passing and close control or drive the team forwards with a sharp dribble. He racked up 10 assists in the league this season, further underlining his influence in the final third. Seri very rarely gives away the ball, even when under the pressure of a hounding, aggressive press. He has a knack for calmly wriggling away from danger or nonchalantly picking the perfect pass to negate the threat. With a €40m release clause (in theory banned by the LFP but still legally binding by taking advantage of loopholes), he has interested some of Europe’s richest clubs.
Interested: Arsenal, Roma, Barcelona, PSG, Tottenham.Estimated value: €40m
Cut adrift of the Champions League places and embarrassed by Ajax in the first leg of their Europa League semi-final, this has been an underwhelming season for Lyon. There have, however, been bright spots: Alexandre Lacazette’s phenomenal goal tally, young Lucas Tousart’s emergence at the base of the midfield and Mathieu Valbuena’s resurgence have all stood out, but Corentin Tolisso’s breakthrough campaign has topped them all. The 22-year-old is comfortable playing as a holding, central or attacking midfielder and his understanding with Lacazette has been the key to anything positive Bruno Génésio’s team have done this season. Perhaps most impressive is his ability to play insightful, deft throughballs, expertly judging the timing and weight of passes and selecting the right option on the counter. If Juventus follow through on their interest, he will be extremely difficult to replace at the Parc OL. Having rejected Napoli’s bid of €37.5m for Tolisso last summer, Lyon President Aulas will be ready for tough negotiations.
Interested: Arsenal, Chelsea, Juventus, Manchester City, Inter, Tottenham.Estimated Valuation: €50m
Ryad Boudebouz is quite simply far too accomplished to be playing for Montpellier. The club meandered in the lower echelons of mid-table this season but, without his goals and creativity, they might have been relegated. His skill, vision, ability on the ball, eye for goal and trademark swish of the hips have made him an under-appreciated delight in Ligue 1. Montpellier have little chance of holding on to him this summer. His form had fluctuated from the sublime to the anonymous during spells at SC Bastia and Sochaux, but his talent has finally won out and, at 27, he has entered his prime. A top-six club will snap him up this summer – assuming they are not beaten to it by a foreign giant.
Interested: Lazio, Lyon, Newcastle United, Nice, Schalke.Estimated value: €15m
Alexandre Lacazette’s form, sharpness and goalscoring have fluctuated frustratingly in the past but, as this season got into its stride, so too did the Lyon forward. Lacazette exemplifies the possible path that promising Ligue 1 players can take if they are not rushed out of the door as soon as they show some semblance of quality. The 26-year-old now emerges as a very complete article after enjoying his most assured and consistent season to date. His finishing is pin sharp; his touch and awareness of space have been refined; and his acceleration is as frightening as ever. He made 30 appearances in Ligue 1 this season and scored 28 goals. This summer is the perfect time for Lacazette to finally fly the nest and prove he is capable of becoming a top-tier European striker. He looked likely to join Atlético Madrid, but their transfer ban has thrown everything into uncertainty.
Interested: Arsenal, Atlético Madrid, Borussia Dortmund, Manchester United.Estimated value: €60m
Without Fabinho, Monaco would probably not have won the Ligue 1 title this season. The difference between Leonardo Jardim’s side with and without their midfield general is stark. The 4-1 drubbing they received from Paris Saint-Germain the Coupe de la Ligue final when he was suspended shows how much they rely on his mobility, power, range of passing and ability to dominate midfield battles in tandem with Tiemoué Bakayoko, despite often being outnumbered in a two-man midfield. If Fabinho doesn’t play, Monaco’s freewheeling, relentless, high-pressing 4-4-2 starts to fall apart. The rangy Brazilian has been the most influential player in Ligue 1 this season. He could prove to be irreplaceable for Monaco, so finding a way to retain him will be the top priority for their vice president, Vadim Vasilyev, this summer.
Interested: Barcelona, Juventus, Manchester City, Manchester United, PSG.Estimated value: €60m
In November 2015, Toulouse were floundering. After 13 games without a win, their manager at the time, Dominique Arribage, threw lanky 18-year-old centre-back Issa Diop in at the deep end for the visit of Nice. The team won 2-0 and although Arribagé was soon dismissed, Diop has been a permanent fixture in the Toulouse side ever since. His pace, towering aerial ability, reading of play and assured defending were key to their miraculous survival under the inspirational Pascal Dupraz last season. Diop has developed into one of the most consistent centre-backs in France, finishing the season as captain and working in tandem with the equally superb Christophe Julien in one of Ligue 1’s most eye-catching defensive partnership. Still just 20, Diop’s growing stature is already justifiably turning heads.
Interested: Monaco, Chelsea, Red Bull Leipzig.Estimated value: €25m
The question of how Metz stayed up has been the mystery of the season in France. They conceded 72 goals and finished the campaign with a goal difference of -33, the worst defensive record in Ligue 1, but somehow finished in 14th place. Cheick Diabaté, who scored eight goals in the 15 games he played since arriving on loan in January from Turkish club Osmanlıspor, provides half an answer to the question. The other half of the equation is the emergence of teenage winger Ismaila Sarr. Sarr’s explosive and direct wing play dragged his Metz counterparts towards safety in the latter part of the season. The Senegalese was signed from Metz’s partner club, Génération Foot, last summer and remains raw. His style resembles that of a lightening-quick Paulo Wanchope, all flailing limbs and unpredictability, but flashes of genuine brilliance have become increasingly evident in 2017. Superb strikes against Caen and Nancy gave his team crucial points and a virtually unplayable cameo was nearly enough to see off Paris Saint-Germain. He still has some way to go but the journey will be an enthralling one.
Interested: Newcastle United, Red Bull Leipzig, Watford.Estimated value: €18m
As Fabinho’s midfield lieutenant, Tiemoué Bakayoko has been pivotal to Monaco’s success this season. Leonardo Jardim’s attacking, high-swelling 4-4-2 can often be outmanned in central areas when pitted against possession-oriented three-man midfields but, with Fabinho dictating play, Bakayoko’s intelligently protects the back four. Their combined aggression and power means Monaco are often outmanned but they are never outgunned. Although Bakayoko’s core skillset places him somewhere between Ngolo Kanté and Claude Makélélé in the spectrum of midfield sentinels – astutely shutting down burgeoning attacks and harrying forwards into mistakes – his strong, leggy Patrick Vieira-like physique adds an extra dimension to his game. He needs to learn to concentrate for a full 90 minutes but, aged just 22, he has all the qualities to become a world class midfielder.
Interested: Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester United, PSG.Estimated value: €60m
• This is an article from Get French Football News• Follow Eric Devin, Adam White and Get French Football News on Twitter
Michy Batshuayi has made clear he will not tolerate another season as a bit-part player at Chelsea as he targets a place at the World Cup in Russia, but will allow the Premier League champions to determine where his future should lie.
The Belgium forward, preparing for Friday’s qualifier in Estonia having begun the friendly win against the Czech Republic this week, made a solitary league start following a £33.2m summer move from Marseille. The striker scored four times in his last three league appearances, including the winner at West Bromwich Albion which secured the trophy, yet that full league debut came against Watford once the title had been claimed.
His only other starts came in domestic cup competitions and, with interest having been expressed by West Ham United and the Ligue 1 champions, Monaco, Batshuayi’s involvement next term looks uncertain. Chelsea have yet to determine whether he should remain at Stamford Bridge or depart, either on a season-long loan or in a permanent deal.
Asked whether he would accept another season on the fringes of the first team, the 23-year-old said: “No, no, no. Everyone knows that I have to play more, that I have to score goals. There’s a World Cup coming up next year. I want to be ready for the World Cup.
“But I’m not going to ask anything. I’m going to listen to what they are saying. They are the boss, not me. And afterwards I’ll discuss it with my agent and the club. Amicably, as friends of course. A loan? That’s not up to me. That’s up to them. They take the decisions, not me.
“I have lived difficult moments, but it’s in times like those that you learn the most. Certainly when you’re surrounded by top-class players, like Cesc Fàbregas, Eden Hazard, all of them, you only can make progress in a situation like that. I haven’t played a lot, you know, but I managed to scored one of the most important goals. It gave me a boost. Good for me, good for the team. Of course I wanted to play more. And of course I wanted to score more goals. That’s normal. All players want that. But we have become champions. That’s really good for me. It’s a wonderful experience.”
Batshuayi’s Belgium team-mate Romelu Lukaku is the subject of interest from Chelsea, with the player intent upon returning to Stamford Bridge having been sold to Everton in 2014 for £28m. Negotiations between the two clubs could prove protracted, with Everton seeking a world record £100m for their 25-goal leading scorer. Chelsea’s stance will be affected by Diego Costa’s situation, with the Spain striker having made clear his reluctance to move to the Chinese Premier League.
Tianjin Quanjian had initially been prepared to pay £76m to secure Costa, whose preference would be a return to Atlético Madrid. However, the Spanish club are operating under an incoming transfer ban and will not be able to register players until January 2018. They are able to make signings if they do not play them until after the winter transfer window opens.
“Diego is a top player who has played in top teams and has scored a lot of goals at the highest level,” said Batshuayi. “I’m still young, so I’ve learned a lot from him.”
The escalating diplomatic crisis between Qatar and its neighbours is a subject of concern to many in British horse racing, as a result of that country’s enormous investment in the sport in recent years. From a position of almost no involvement less than a decade ago, Qatar rivals Dubai for significance in Flat racing, thanks in large part to the interest shown by two members of the ruling al-Thani family, Sheikh Fahad and Sheikh Joaan.
But Qatar’s situation appears perilous, following the news on Monday that nations including Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Egypt and Bahrain had severed diplomatic ties with Qatar, accusing it of destabilising the region and supporting terrorist groups. The countries involved declared they would halt all land, air and sea traffic with Qatar, eject its diplomats and order Qatari citizens to leave within a fortnight.
Peninsular Qatar has a single land border, with Saudi Arabia, and the prospect of its closure has reportedly caused panic buying of food. Qatari officials deny the allegations against their country and say the blockade is part of a plan to undermine their state.
In the context of a crisis on that scale, any amount of horse racing sponsorship is clearly small potatoes. Still, British racing is awash with Qatari money just now and officials at several tracks are clearly hoping that will continue to be true for a long time.
In December 2014, the state of Qatar signed up to back Glorious Goodwood, renamed as the Qatar Goodwood Festival, in a 10-year deal that was described as the biggest in the history of British racing. No value was put on that deal in reports at the time but it took the total prize money for the 2015 meeting to £4.5m.
Just six months later, another “biggest ever” deal was struck, estimated at £50m in value, between Ascot, Newmarket, the British Champions Series of races and Qipco, an investment vehicle for some members of the al-Thani family. Under the deal, prize money for Champions Day is supposed to reach £5m by 2024.
Qipco was already the sponsor of the British Champions Series and had already become Ascot’s first official partner, entitling it to branding rights during two days of the Royal meeting each year. Sheikh Joaan had runners in Britain last year with 11 different trainers, while Sheikh Fahad used 18. Sheikh Joaan’s Al Shaqab Racing, which sponsors Newbury’s Lockinge Stakes, finished fourth in the owner’s table by prize money won with a total of just under £2m.
Understandably, officials have responded with caution when asked to discuss whether Qatari investment can be expected to continue in the light of recent events, or whether it should continue. The British Horseracing Authority said it would be guided by the position of the British government in such matters.
“The UK government has encouraged the development of a strong and growing trading relationship with Qatar and we are not currently aware of any change in that regard,” a BHA spokesman said. “Qatar remains a significant investor in the UK, accounting for £35bn of existing investment.”
Individual sponsorships of races were a matter for the tracks involved, the BHA added. Goodwood did not respond to my requests for comment, while Ascot confined itself to saying: “Qipco has made and continues to make a significant contribution to British racing through its role as sponsors, owners, breeders and charity supporters.”
A spokesperson for the British Champions Series said: “Qipco is a privately owned company which has made, and continues to make, a significant contribution to British racing through its role as sponsors, owners, breeders and charity supporters.”
So, steady as she goes, let’s see what happens and hope for the best, is the message. Doubtless everyone, or nearly everyone, is hoping for some sign of detente in the region.
Turning to Wednesday’s racing, Hamilton has passed a morning inspection after 22mm of rain but conditions are clearly going to be very testing there. Ugh, I’ve managed to nap an odds-on shot in Amy Blair. Taking 8-11 on that kind of ground is not really for me.
Archie’s Advice (4.10) might be more like it at 11-2. His last three turf wins have come on ground with some cut, two of them at this track. He’s been running OK so far this year, on much sounder surfaces, and I think it’s fair to expect a better effort here in a race that is threatening to fall apart through non-runners.
Half an hour later, the 4-1 shot Royal Connoisseur (4.40) is another who might appreciate the sog underfoot. This is his first chance on a soft surface since he scored a double in the autumn, one of those wins coming at Hamilton.
He’s only 1lb higher than for his last winning mark. Adam McNamara rides for the first time since scoring on him here in July. The favourite, Dandyleekie, is capable but has frustrated me on a couple of occasions and I’d rather be against him if 2-1 is all that’s on offer.
At Ripon tonight, Jordan Sport (8.05) is interesting at 12-1 in a sprint handicap. Just two days ago, he had his first run for four months, at Windsor, and ran well while suggesting he’d be sharper for it. He won twice on the all-weather during the winter, has winning form on soft and looks to me like a horse with more to offer.
Wolverhampton 1.50 Cruise Tothelimit 2.20 Makanah 2.50 Titus Secret 3.20 Strictly Carter 3.50 Viewpoint 4.20 Pirate’s Treasure 4.55 Inshiraah 5.25 Dusky Maid
Uttoxeter 2.00 Otter Moon 2.30 Robin The Raven 3.00 Dursey Sound 3.30 Sierra Oscar 4.00 Call The Cops 4.30 Day Of Roses 5.00 You’re A Lady
Hamilton 2.10 Lina’s Star 2.40 Jessinamillion 3.10 Mistiness 3.40 Amy Blair (nap) 4.10 Archie’s Advice (nb) 4.40 Royal Connoisseur 5.15 Mighty Zip
Kempton 5.55 Papou Tony 6.25 Karisma 6.55 Sand Shoe 7.25 Nathan Mayer 7.55 Murgan 8.25 Southern States
Ripon 6.35 Another Batt 7.05 Dance Teacher 7.35 Glorious Rocket 8.05 Jordan Sport 8.35 Pumblechook 9.05 Nathalie
The British & Irish Lions have suffered worse defeats than this in Auckland and a provincial loss or two will not define their tour. Even so, before they return to this stadium to face the All Blacks on 24 June some fundamental issues need addressing. Without sharper backline execution, better lineout execution and tighter discipline, they will not win the matches that really matter.
To suggest this was a contest they would have won if they had conceded fewer penalties also obscures the abiding lesson of a damp, showery evening. Ultimately the Blues emerged victorious courtesy of two vivid flashes of creative skill the Lions simply could not match; unless Warren Gatland’s squad conjures up some similar game-changing magicians, all their undoubted forward power is going to be insufficient.
Gatland had spoken before the game about X-factor contributors and his point was perfectly underlined by the home side’s match-winning 74th-minute try from the replacement fly-half Ihaia West, set up by Sonny Bill Williams. Williams is set to be named in the All Blacks squad to face the Lions and the sweet offload which sent the rapid West on a 40-metre slaloming run to score under the posts contrasted sharply with their visitors’ more pedestrian midfield efforts.
Nor could any Lion match the brilliance of the long pass from the 20-year-old Stephen Perofeta which put his similarly youthful team-mate Rieko Ioane away for the Blues’ opening try. If there was a hint of fortune about the Blues’ other try just before half-time, when it seemed to the naked eye as if the ball went forward off TJ Faiane’s hand, a try count of three tries to one reflected the home team’s ruthless finishing. The Lions are averaging one try per game and it is not nearly enough.
It should help to have Owen Farrell lined up at 10 as they transfer to Christchurch to tackle the unbeaten Crusaders; with Dan Biggar failing a head injury assessment and Jonathan Sexton still nowhere near his best, the Lions’ creative heart needs to start pumping with more ideas and energy. Then again, simply chucking the ball around and hoping for the best against New Zealand sides is never a great idea either. The tour itinerary remains brutal and, unless a sharp improvement materialises, the below-par success against the Provincial Barbarians last Saturday could conceivably be the first and last weekend fixture the Lions win.
The alternative is to bottle the frustration of this outcome and look to uncork it in the Tests. Courtney Lawes, Maro Itoje, CJ Stander, Rhys Webb and Leigh Halfpenny all had their moments and there was enough scrummaging success to suggest the Lions should be more than competitive in that key area. As Gatland rightly observed, however, no team conceding 13 penalties, several of them soft ones, is giving themselves much chance at the highest level.
Liam Williams being sent to the sin‑bin in the 57th minute, after a second mistimed aerial challenge on Matt Duffie, was merely the most obvious example of players not thinking straight. Stander’s high tackle shortly before half-time also allowed Perofeta the penalty shot at goal that ended up shaping the game profoundly. The ball struck the upright, the rebound – knocked on or not – went over the Lions line and Sonny Bill Williams was in the right place at the right time to score. The Blues were suddenly walking back to the sheds 12-10 up and the Lions could never muster quite the same authority again.
Injury-wise it also proved a wince-inducing night for the Lions. The centre Jared Payne limped off having apparently aggravated the calf problem that ruled him out of the opening fixture and Biggar never reappeared after departing for a head injury assessment. It was a particularly bittersweet occasion for Payne, who used to play for the Blues and has a brother living in Auckland. Before his evening ending prematurely he could have had a couple of first-quarter tries, once just failing to reach a rolling ball in the in-goal area and then being denied a try when his left knee grazed the touchline as he went to touch down in the left corner.
With Webb also being collared just short of the line when a try looked certain, the Lions were overdue a score when Stander finally finished off a rolling maul. Halfpenny’s conversion and penalty gave the visitors a 10-5 lead which their improved tempo and sense of purpose fully deserved. The ever-dangerous Ioane came close to bagging another score, having touched down for the Blues’ first try, within three minutes of the restart as the Lions made a sluggish start to the second half. Even before Liam Williams was handed a yellow card, the touring team were tightly marshalled in midfield, only for Halfpenny’s boot to put them back in front with nine minutes remaining.
It was to prove a false dawn, with the Lions over-throwing a last-minute lineout which could have transformed the mood. Rory Best will not recall the moment with much affection but he and his team-mates know it is what happens next that really counts. Can the Lions iron out such teething problems in less than three weeks? Do they have anything like enough in their attacking locker? And, most pertinent of all, if they are losing against New Zealand’s sixth-best non-Test side, how on earth are they going to beat the All Blacks? Slow and steady is not going to win this particular race.
Blues Collins; Duffie, Moala (Faiane, 66), Williams, R Ioane; Perofeta (West, 52), Pulu (Nock, 72); Tu’ungafasi (Hodgman, 58), Parsons (capt; Faiva, 72), Faumuina (Mafileo, 58), Cowley-Tuioti (Tupou, 58), Scrafton, A Ioane, Gibson (Pryor, 66), Luatua.
Tries R Ioane, Williams, West. Cons Perofeta, West. Pen West.
British & Irish Lions Halfpenny; Nowell, Payne (L Williams, 48), Henshaw, Daly; Biggar (Sexton, 36), Webb (Laidlaw, 76); McGrath (Marler, 54), Owens (capt; Best, 69), Cole (Sinckler, 55), Lawes (Henderson, 76), Itoje, Haskell (O’Mahony, 54), Tipuric, Stander.
Try Stander. Con Halfpenny. Pens Halfpenny 3.
Sin-bin L Williams 57.
Referee P Gaüzère (Fr). Attendance 40,639.
Nolito is likely to leave Manchester City, with Sevilla thought to be favourites to sign the Spanish forward.
The 30-year-old fell out of favour during his first season at the Etihad Stadium, starting only nine Premier League matches, and told the Spanish radio station El Transistor that he had struggled to settle in Manchester and wanted to leave.
Rumours linking Nolito with a loan move to Sevilla were fuelled further when he was spotted in a Seville ice cream parlour with the club’s sporting director, Óscar Arias, though Atlético Madrid, Real Betis and the forward’s former club Celta Vigo are also reported to have shown interest in him.
Nolito has been spotted in Sevilla alongside new Sporting Director of the club, Oscar Arias. Source: (Mundo Deportivo) pic.twitter.com/nRv5U3yZfW
Nolito told El Transistor: “I am under the contract, so the club will decide, but I want to leave. I haven’t played in six months. I will do everything possible to make Spain’s World Cup squad.
“I have learnt very, very little English – it’s very hard. Just ‘tomorrow’, ‘good morning’, ‘good afternoon’ and a little more. My daughter’s face has changed colour – it looks like she’s been living in a cave.”
Nolito insisted that the meeting with Arias was coincidental. “I was just casually shopping for clothes for my wife in Seville,” he said. “I went to get a coffee and bumped into Sevilla’s director of football casually.”
Nolito joined City for £13.8m from Celta last summer but has failed to establish himself in Pep Guardiola’s side, and has not started a match since the FA Cup draw at Huddersfield Town in February.
The English rider Davey Lambert has died after being injured in a crash during the Isle of Man TT.
The 48-year-old from Gateshead suffered multiple injuries when his Kawasaki crashed on the third lap of the opening Superbike race at Greeba Castle on Sunday.
Lambert, who had raced on the Isle of Man since 2014, was treated at the scene before being airlifted to Nobles hospital. He was later transferred to Aintree University hospital in Liverpool, where he died on Tuesday evening.
A statement on Lambert’s Facebook page read: “With a heavy heart it saddens us to have to break the news that Davey lost his fight at 19.50pm this evening surrounded by his family and close friends.
“He went out of this world in exactly the way he would have wanted, doing what he loved. He was a big man with an even bigger heart who will be sorely missed by so many. As a family we would like to thank everyone for their kind words and support.
“We would like to thank all of the amazing doctors and nurses who tried so hard to save Davey’s life at the scene, Nobles Hospital and Aintree University Hospital. We know you did everything you possibly could to help him and for that we are eternally grateful. Ride Fast Lambo.”
In a statement the race organisers said: “ACU Events Ltd wishes to pass on their deepest sympathy to his partner Tracey, his family and friends.”
There was a twist this year to Arsenal’s annual late-season injection of hope in that it came with a change of formation. Can a conversion to a back three really, after all these years, be the recipe that actually delivers jam tomorrow? Yet it’s not even clear that Arsène Wenger intends to stick with a shape of which he was once openly scornful, and that means that every transfer, every rumour, will be analysed not merely in terms of the player, but for what it may indicate about Wenger’s vision of the future.
The free-transfer signing of the Bosnia-Herzegovina left-back Sead Kolasinac from Schalke on a five-year contract this week makes the picture very little clearer, but what he should offer is flexibility and a steeliness Arsenal have often lacked. Although Kolasinac was not a regular wing-back with Schalke or his country, and has made his reputation as tough, powerful defender, there seems little positional reason why he could not operate as either a left-sided central defender or as a wing-back – as well as in his more familiar full-back role. He has, after all, played 19 games for Schalke as a wide midfielder (and four more in the centre of midfield), even if his more obvious assets are defensive.
Whether he has the technical capacity to operate as a wing-back is less certain, but Kolasinac is capable of getting forward and nobody has ever doubted his work rate or commitment. He scored three goals and set up five in the Bundesliga last season. No other defender registered so many assists (even if the stat is slightly diminished by the fact that some of them came when he was playing in midfield).
That should not, though, be taken to suggest he is a great passer or brilliant crosser of a ball and in that sense he is not an obvious fit for Arsenal – which may, of course, be no bad thing. He is frenetic and aggressive, somebody who relishes a physical challenge. There are not going to be many filigree interchanges involving Kolasinac and, say, Mesut Özil, but he is emphatically robust. “Sead is a tree,” said the former Schalke manager Jens Keller. “He gets hit on the head, but just shakes it off and continues to play superbly.”
Kolasinac was born in the German city of Karlsruhe, where his father, Faik, works in the Mercedes factory. Faik is a Montenegrin from Niksic who in 1969, when he was 10, moved to Capljina in Bosnia-Herzegovina. He played amateur football there and shares a similar muscular frame to his son. “It’s all genetics,” his father said. “When Huub Stevens [then the Schalke manager] saw us sitting together he said it was obvious where he got his physique from.”
Although Kolasinac played at youth level for Germany, he has always identified with Bosnia. He listens to Bosnian music and even when he was at Schalke, living in Gelsenkirchen, he would go back to Karlsruhe once a week to eat his mother’s burek and cabbage rolls. Until Kolasinac started playing, he would join the crowds watching Bosnia’s national team games on a big screen at his local mosque. Religion played a significant part in his upbringing. Faik remembers that his son would sometimes skip school to go to classes at the mosque and that there were times when he would go hungry rather than eat pork.
From a global perspective, Kolasinac is perhaps best remember for the early own goal he scored against Argentina in Bosnia’s first game at the 2014 World Cup. Safet Susic’s unusual tactical gamble meant Bosnia then didn’t play with a left-back against Nigeria but Kolasinac returned for the win over Iran. Three years on, as the arguments over Susic’s selection for that second match have begun to fade, the most striking aspect about Kolasinac’s World Cup, perhaps, is how untroubled he seemed by the own goal. A 20-year-old could easily have collapsed after scoring against his own side at the Maracanã three minutes into their first World Cup but Kolasinac was impressively solid thereafter.
Given Arsenal’s tendency to wilt at the first glimpse of pressure, that grittiness will be a useful addition. Again, that suggests that Wenger, at last, has acknowledged that not all the world’s problems can be solved by neat, slight midfielders with nice hair. Arsenal’s May uptick this season felt different to what had gone before because it involved such a radical structural change, such an admission from Wenger that his tactical outlook required modification. The signing of Kolasinac suggests that the process of reform, a return to a more physically aggressive Arsenal, is continuing.
“Chelsea have won the title in the last four general election years. Has any English team got a better record when Britain goes to the polls?” asks Jamie Navarro. “What governments do title winners deliver?”
This is right up Gary Fairclough’s street. “It turns out that Chelsea are far from the most prolific title winners in election years,” he writes. “In England that honour lies with Liverpool: they have won seven titles in election years (1906, 1922, 1923, 1964, 1966, 1979 and 1983), scoring three Labour, three Conservative and one Liberal government. But in the rest of the UK that record is dwarfed by our Scottish and Irish brethren.
“Rangers and Linfield have each won the title 17 times in election years, Rangers delivering the most Labour governments (nine) and Linfield delivering the most Conservative governments (also nine). Rangers’ third-place finish this season does not bode well for Jeremy Corbyn but Linfield’s 52nd Northern Irish title looks even more promising than the early polling figures for Theresa May. On the plus side, Linfield have also delivered the most Liberal governments but that, like Lib Dem MPs in parliament, is only a fraction of the other parties with two, most recently in 1910. Sorry Tim, don’t get your hopes up.”
Luca De Angelis has more by the way of this exhaustive effort. He has kindly scribbled a x2 in brackets next to the party who won both general elections in years when there were two, 1910 and 1974. “First of all, I have looked at all the general elections held since the foundation of the Football League, starting from the one that took place in 1892,” he muses. “I know that in some occasions a coalition/national government has been formed after the election, so I want to make a list of the general elections won by each party:
National/coalition Government: 1918, 1931, 1935, 2010. Liberal: 1892, 1906, Jan 1910, Dec 1910. Labour: 1923, 1929, 1945, 1950, 1964, 1966, Feb 1974, Oct 1974, 1997, 2001, 2005. Conservative: 1895, 1900, 1922, 1924, 1951, 1955, 1959, 1970, 1979, 1983, 1987, 1992, 2015.
“As has been said, Chelsea have just won the title for the fourth time in a row in a general election year, while before them no club had won the title more than two times in a row in those occasions. But which club have won the title in those years, how many times they won in those circumstances and which party won in the same year? Here’s the list: Arsenal two (two National/coalition), Aston Villa two (one Conservative, one Liberal (x2)), Chelsea five (three Conservative, one Labour, one TBD), Everton two (two Conservative), Huddersfield Town one (one Conservative), Leeds United two (one Labour (x2), one Conservative), Liverpool seven (one Liberal, three Conservative, three Labour), Manchester United two (two Labour), Portsmouth one (one Labour), Sheffield Wednesday one (one Labour), Sunderland two (one Liberal, one Conservative), Tottenham Hotspur one (one Conservative), Wolverhampton Wanderers one (one Conservative).”
“I can’t remember the last time I read of a club P45-ing a manager without a statement declaring: ‘The club would like to place on record its thanks to [wotsisname] …’” begins Dom Smith. “Wolves are the latest example at the time of writing. Someone’s to blame for this Ctrl+C/V-ery and I want to know who. So, who was the first club to use this firing formula?” [And how about the least thankful club statement on a manager’s departure? – Knowledge Ed.]
“You’d be hard-pressed to rival the double-whammy of ingratitude from Raith Rovers this year,” Iain Wallace writes. “An annus horribilis that resulted in our unexpected, and largely self-inflicted, relegation to League Two also resulted in two managers leaving without much love being lost. After Gary Locke’s calamitous reign was brought to an end on 7 February 2017, the Rovers had only the following to say:
The board of directors of Raith Rovers FC announces that we have parted company with manager Gary Locke and assistant manager Darren Jackson, with immediate effect
“They were similarly laconic when releasing the following regarding John Hughes, mere minutes after the final penalty confirmed relegation through the play-offs.
Raith Rovers FC announces that we have this evening parted company with manager John Hughes and assistant manager Kevin McBride
“It’s been a tough year …”
“I was browsing through some recent editions of The Knowledge, and spotted the segment on shortest international players, and wanted to bring your attention to a contribution of my own,” Nikolai von Stieglitz writes.
“Some years ago my brother and I tuned in to catch a group stage match between Nigeria and Benin during the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations,” he continues. “With fewer than 10 minutes remaining in the game we were astonished by the introduction of the fabulously miniature Arnaud Séka, replacing Nouhoum Kobéna. Listed at just 5ft 1in, the remarkably tricksy attacking player had little time to influence the result in a rather humdrum 1-0 loss to the Super Eagles, courtesy of a Yakubu penalty, but he was majestic to watch. Séka went on to play a further 20 minutes as a substitute during the 2-0 loss to Egypt, taking the place of Mickaël Poté. Surely he deserves an honourable mention on your list (here’s a video – featuring a wonderful dinked goal)?”
“Who was the first player to wear fluorescent boots?” wondered our very own Rob Smyth in 2014.
Black boots were under threat as early as the 1950s. Here was Simon Burnton in 2013 and his brilliant Joy of Six: tales from the boot room:
“Rewind to December 1959, when the Mansfield boot-manufacturing firm Ward Bros closed its doors with the loss of 60 jobs. “Fashions in football boots these days are as fickle as the indies’ shoe trade, if not more so,” said Harold Ward, a director of the family firm. “Until about three or four years ago a football boot was a football boot, varying only in size and weight, but following a sound basic design. Now the latest creation is likely to be in black and tan with silver eyelets, and in a couple of months’ time it will be out of date, replaced by something else. We can’t risk building up stocks that won’t sell.”
But the beginning of the end for the traditional black boot came in the early 1970s. The German sportswear company Hummel was looking to break into the UK market and signed up several professionals to wear its new white boots. Not that they were worn for sartorial elegance. Alan Ball, who debuted his white boots in the 1970 Charity Shield, used to paint an old pair of Adidas boots white, while Derby’s Alan Hinton risked Brian Clough’s wrath for the money. “The background to me wearing them was simple. A company called Hummel approached me and offered me a grand,” Hinton told the Star in 2011. “That was a fair bit of money back then. I thought Cloughie would crucify me, but he didn’t for some reason.”
They then dropped out of fashion for a time, with the next reference in the newspaper archive we could muster coming from David Lacey’s report on the 1995 European Cup final between Ajax and Milan in Vienna, where the Rossoneri’s Marco Simone was a trendsetter. “For a time it looked as if the amount of room Simone and his white boots were being allowed by Ajax would eventually return the trophy to San Siro. However, he was to come no closer to scoring than the volley, from Donadoni’s centre, which Van der Sar turned round a post at the end of the first half.”
When it comes to the first luminous footwear, things, ironically, are a little murkier. The mid-90s are the turning point once more and the earliest definitive reference we’ve uncovered comes in a report from Dundee’s Dens Park. “It was perhaps a portent that the afternoon was going to be a rather grim affair,” Archie MacGregor wrote in the Sunday Times in November 1996, “when St Johnstone’s Attila Sekerlioglu decided to dispense with his notorious yellow boots.”
“In seasons 1955-56, 1956-57 and 1957-58. Leeds United drew Cardiff City in the third round of the FA Cup at Elland Road,” Stephen Crump writes. “The score in the three games was 2-1 to the away team, Cardiff. Has there ever been a similar pattern and coincidence in the FA Cup – or other cup competition?”
“Following the John Terry farewell, have any other games been subject to pre-planned interruptions, either officially sanctioned or not?” David Gibson asks.
“As I was perusing the Liga MX page on Wikipedia, I noticed that Santos Laguna just finished the Clausura in fifth place despite losing only one game,” notices Brad Hill. “This makes me wonder … what is the lowest position a team has finished in the league despite losing only one game?”
Send your questions and answers to knowledge@theguardian.com or tweet @TheKnowledge_GU.
It was hard to find anyone who begrudged Cleveland fans their championship 12 months ago. The fanbase had suffered through decades of losing and crushing defeats; there had been tears and screams and, yes, even flames. The collective futility of the Cavaliers, Indians and Browns had endured year-round, one failed season rolling into the next. And all the sports misery occurred at a time when the city and the entire region of northeast Ohio was struggling just to survive. So only the cruelest of souls were upset by the sight of a million people in the streets of Cleveland celebrating the city’s good fortune.
Good luck finding a person alive who feels the same way about Warriors fans. Golden State are two wins away from winning their second NBA title in three years and entering the conversation about the greatest basketball teams of all time. They’re also two wins away from making Warriors fans perhaps the most despised in all of American sports.
All due respect to the widely loathed supporters of the Patriots, Yankees, Cowboys and Lakers, but the Warriors are building a fanbase that could dwarf them all for unlikability. Golden State fans’ negatives are on a hockey stick growth curve as Oracle Arena increasingly fills with – apologies for the poor attempt at using Silicon Valley lingo – brogrammers who truly believe they offer a value add to the organization. (And for the sake of clarity, it is this new breed of fan that attracts ire, rather than the Warriors supporters who pulled for the team even during the bad old days.)
Part of the problem is simple demographics. Bandwagon jumpers are considered to be the lowest form of fan – even below drunk, belligerent and face-painted – whereas the diehard, thick and thin, fan-since-birth group is the most respected. Because of the massive influx of people into northern California with the tech boom, many of those filling the choice seats at Oracle Arena have ties to the region that are tenuous even compared to those of Kevin Durant. Yet they’re cheering their hearts out for their beloved Warriors every night, while across the street the last place A’s – with the second-worst attendance in all of baseball and portions of the upper deck covered in tarp – don’t seem to have captured the imagination of Silicon Valley big wigs. The new Warriors fan has not suffered anything near the sports heartache of a Cleveland lifer. Their toughest season to endure was one in which the Warriors won an NBA-record 73 games. Sad!
The biggest example of the new strain of Golden State fan is none other than Joe Lacob himself, the team owner. Born in Massachusetts, he grew up a Celtics fan before his family relocated when he was a teenager to Los Angeles ... upon which he became a Lakers fan. Who knew that kind of swap in loyalty was even legal? But avoiding charges, Lacob started a venture capital firm in the late 80s, became part owner of the Celtics in 2006 (another flip!) and then majority owner of the Warriors after the 2010 season. Like the worst Silicon Valley stereotype, he credits tech culture for his team’s success, telling the New York Times Magazine last spring: “We’ve crushed them on the basketball court, and we’re going to for years because of the way we’ve built this team. We’re light years ahead of probably every other team in structure, in planning, in how we’re going to go about things. We’re going to be a handful for the rest of the NBA to deal with for a long time.”
Lacob is undoubtedly correct that his team is positioned to win for a long time, but that has more to do with hitting on Stephen Curry in the 2009 draft – a selection that came before Lacob arrived – and the ensuing benefits Curry’s abilities have afforded (on an under-market contract, mind) than it does with any sort of ingenious tech management style we in the small-brained community can’t comprehend. The Portland Trail Blazers and Sacramento Kings also have owners with tech backgrounds, don’t they? But their tech culture hasn’t created much success without the likes of Curry and Durant (who is deeply involved in Silicon Valley himself) on the rosters. Having an owner that irks is a near-necessity for despised teams, however – see Jerry Jones and Robert Kraft – and Lacob goes the extra mile there with his comments on how he and his fiancee had sex alongside the Larry O’Brien Trophy following Golden State’s 2015 title win. Thinking of that is like Uber but for vomiting.
Anyone else see Eddy Cue @cue say "tell that bitch to sit down" after @rihanna was cheering court side? #NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/iwRjjYEqno
Lacob and his fellow tech gazillionaires have also priced many of Golden State’s long-time fans out of the market (and insulted Rihanna while they’re at it). The average ticket price for a Warriors home game increased nearly 300% from the 2006-07 season ($26.63) to last year’s 73-9 campaign ($79.84). The Warriors also had the fourth-highest average ticket price in the entire NBA. Lifelong Golden State fans, ones who can’t afford to spend $400 on a juicer that doesn’t actually work, undeniably exist and in large numbers; the Warriors have always had good support even in down years, but a lot of those diehards have lost their tickets to multi-millionaires who invented an app you have never heard of. It’s hard to associate Warriors fans now with anything other than the tech bros we see ringing the lower bowl at Oracle Arena every game. And that’s while they’re still at their present venue: they will soon move from their traditional home in Oakland to wealthier (and tech-ier) San Francisco.
Is some of it jealousy? Oh, no doubt. More than some. If the Warriors didn’t win, their fans would be easily ignored. Same with Patriots fans. They wouldn’t be worth the energy for hatred. And few among us would turn down a high-paying Silicon Valley job that afforded piles of cash to spend on seeing the NBA’s greatest team up close. But it’s all too much. Too easy. And it’s being done with a finesse, don’t-get-too-dirty playing style that is just too Silicon Valley. The one area of the country where you can get millions dumped on you for conceiving a quarter of a half-baked idea shouldn’t also get to have the most dominant professional sports team in a generation. It’s not fair.
But the new Warriors fan will surely take being loathed by the rest of sportsdom in exchange for a string of championships. And all we’ll be able to do is watch it happen on whatever devices they sell us next.
Arsène Wenger is proactive. He’s dynamic, he’s in charge and he’s going to sign your player. Hot on the heels of Sead Kolasinac’s arrival, he’s at it again – photographed by a quick-thinking citizen-journalist at Nice airport clutching a pricey-looking bag of shopping and flanked by his

vassal
 boss Ivan Gazidis. Does 2+2=Mbappé? Apparently a higher level of maths is needed for this one: Wenger was in the region to speak with Lyon’s top brass about trusty Rumour Mill steed Alexandre Lacazette, with the Gunners keen to get most of their big deals done uncharacteristically early.
Perhaps Wenger might make a quick hop over to Barcelona, who believe they have won the heart and mind of their former player Héctor Bellerín. Terms are said to have been agreed with the right-back and now, such is the way football works, the clubs need to get to work over a fee. £50m might do it, and reports in Catalonia say Bellerín wants out. There could even be another departure from the Emirates, too, with almost-top-class striker Olivier Giroud warning darkly that he “won’t settle for such limited playing time” when Arsenal get next season’s knockabout japes underway.
The Rumour Mill values its regular stars and if Romelu Lukaku is soon to flee the nest we do, at least, have James Rodríguez. Liverpool are in for the out-of-favour Real Madrid playmaker! And so are Arsenal! And so is pretty much every top-tier club you can name, according to Wednesday’s reports, all of which should end up meaning an agent does pretty well in a couple of months’ time.
That would all be big news but surely not as big as Bournemouth signing a new captain, leader and legend at the same time. So hold the back page, then, for imminent news of the Cherries doing exactly that – with John Terry apparently close to signing a £100,000-a-week deal to continue his top-flight career for a year longer than really seems wise.
Another Chelsea product, Southampton’s Ryan Bertrand, is in demand, with suggestions that Manchester City could steal in for the left-back amid problems with their bid for Monaco’s Benjamin Mendy. And if they don’t, Liverpool or even the Stamford Bridge club probably will.
City are about to bid farewell to one member of last season’s squad, with the lesser-spotted Nolito having touched down in Spain ahead of what is expected to be a loan move to Sevilla. The Premier League could see a new wide forward come in soon enough though: West Ham are looking to stem the flow of discontent at the London Stadium with a move for Jürgen Damm, a Mexican winger who plays for Tigres, with £4m apparently likely to do the job there.
And in the latest evidence that Championship club Wolves’s transfer policy definitely, undoubtedly, assuredly isn’t being led by Jorge Mendes, the Molineux side are interested in adding Manchester United stalwart Bebé – currently on the books of Eibar in Spain – to their cadre.
Ange Postecoglou says the time has come for his Socceroos players to pay back the significant investment put into them. The Australian coach is confident the payback will begin in Thursday night’s crucial World Cup qualifier against Saudi Arabia in Adelaide.
“As the games get more and more important and vital, that is where you want to see all the work we have done in the last two or three years come to fruition,” Postecoglou told reporters on Wednesday.
“We have invested two or three years in them but I think, over this next period, it will be interesting to see how far they can go as footballers and how far the team can go.”
Australia enter Thursday’s fixture three points adrift of group leaders Japan and Saudi Arabia, with three games remaining. The top two nations secure spots at next year’s World Cup in Russia but the third-placed nation is pitched into playoff rounds.
Postecoglou was preparing for some stodgy Saudi tactics in Adelaide, noting it had become a pattern of Australia’s opponents. “What we have found is, irrelevant of who we play, in recent times they tend to sit back against us,” he said. “I think it’s recognition from the opposition that the way we play our football, they will have no choice but to sit back.”
“I don’t think that is because of the (group) position or consequences. I think regardless, that is what they have to do to try to stop us. That’s what we’re expecting. But from our perspective, it’s about our growth and our ability to dominate games of football against all types of opposition and under any circumstances.”
“And tomorrow will be another challenge in that area.”
In the lead-up to the crunch game, players have deliberately kept in the dark about the starting line-up. In doing so, Postecoglou has maintained his usual stance of not naming his final line-up until match day.
“We don’t really know the team until match day,” captain Mile Jedinak told Adelaide radio station 5AA. “It’s a thing that keeps everybody on their toes and allows people to prepare as if they’re starting no matter what. Obviously there’s only 11 shirts up for grabs for that starting position.”
“But we’re always made aware that you might not start the game however you may make the biggest impact in the game when you do come on.”
Jedinak said players were comfortable with Postecoglou’s selection tactic. “It’s a great way of doing it,” he said. “We’re all used to it now so we just get on with it and we’re all here to support each other no matter what. Whether we start, whether we’re coming off the bench or whether we don’t play at all, everyone is just as important.”
Postecoglou has a full squad of 23 players to choose from for the Saudi match, with midfielder Jackson Irvine among those awaiting selection news. Irvine started the past two games and hoped to secure another starting midfield berth.
“You want to be involved in as much play as you can,” Irvine told reporters. “But I also recognise the talent and ability that we possess in this team. If my role is to play from the bench and be more of an impact player, or to play from the start, my mentality won’t change.”
Adam Gilchrist has broken ranks with past and present players by supporting Cricket Australia’s pay offer, labelling it fair. The retired Test great is confident the pay dispute between CA and the Australian Cricketers’ Association is on track for a resolution by the 30 June deadline.
That’s despite players standing firm on their opposition to the governing body’s move to scrap the existing revenue-sharing model under the new agreement. CA has been spruiking the deal’s 58% increase of guaranteed payments, benefiting men and women players.
Gilchrist has backed players for showing unity, in particular those at the highest level who are concerned the new deal will leave domestic players out of pocket. But he suggested CA’s argument that the revenue-sharing agreement takes money away from the grassroots of the game had merit.
“I think Cricket Australia are offering a very, very fair deal for players,” Gilchrist told Fox Sports. “No-one’s going to go without and everyone’s growing and increasing.”
“I do hope that they’re [the players] thinking of the cricketer at the most important level, and that is the kid signing on for his first year. Because grassroots cricket is under siege from other sports, like the various footy codes.”
Australians playing in the Champions Trophy in England have been vocal in their opposition to the deal, as have a number of former cricketers. But CA is maintaining its new pay offer has to be implemented for the long-term good of the game.
Gilchrist said the two sides will eventually negotiate. “There will be an end to it. I wouldn’t be surprised if they’ve been meeting in the last few days – the players’ association and the board,” said Gilchrist.
“I think both sides are going to have to compromise. Having spoken to people in both parties, I think they’re both starting to say that and understand that.”
The more practical concern of Australia’s players in the coming days is a simple equation: beat England at Edgbaston on Saturday or go home from the ICC Champions Trophy.
Eoin Morgan’s side booked their semi-final spot on Tuesday with an impressive 87-run win over New Zealand in Cardiff to secure top spot in Group A. England cruised to victory after bowling out New Zealand for 223 inside 45 overs having posted 310 having been put in to bat.
The result means Australia, Bangladesh and New Zealand all have a chance of reaching the semi-finals on Saturday. Victory for Australia over England, in what’s essentially a quarter-final match, will keep their tournament alive by virtue of having four points.
Only Aaron Finch, David Warner, Smith and Moises Henriques spent time at the crease in the tournament due to the weather but Smith is unconcerned and believes the pressure of needing a result will suit his players.
“I’m sure they’ll be OK,” Australian captain Steve Smith said. “Most of the guys have been playing a lot of cricket, anyway, having been at the IPL and things like that. I think once they get out in the middle, things will just click into place, and yeah, hopefully we can play well on the 10th in Birmingham.
“It makes the equation pretty simple for us. We have to beat England.”
Should Australia win, it will extend their stay in Birmingham where they would play in the second semi-final against the winner of Group B - which is likely to be South Africa or India - on June 15. One bonus for Smith in Monday’s wash-out at The Oval was the improved performance of his quicks, with Mitchell Starc particularly impressive alongside the consistent Josh Hazlewood.
It was a much-improved showing on what was served up against New Zealand last Friday and Smith said he was relishing the opportunity to unleash them on England’s powerful batting line-up.
“I thought all our bowlers were a lot better,” Smith said. “We hit some good areas early on and challenged the defence of Bangladeshi batsmen. Everyone that bowled did a pretty good job and it was nice that we were able to turn things around.”
The Football Association has issued its first life bans after being shown previously unseen footage of England supporters making Nazi salutes and slit-throat gestures amid growing fears among security officials that the national team have become a focal point for a new generation of troublemakers.
Other footage showed an England follower holding a finger above his lips to imitate Hitler, in between gesturing that he would stab Germany’s supporters, during March’s game in Dortmund that became an opportunity for many travelling Englishmen to go through their repertoire of songs about the second world war.
Of 59 people identified by the UK Football Policing Unit, 20 turned out to be members of the official England Supporters Travel Club. Sixteen have now been banned for periods ranging from six months to five years and the other four have received warning letters. However, the authorities accept the real number of offenders is significantly higher and that in terms of antisocial behaviour, England have one of the worst followings of any football nation.
Intelligence reports have also revealed that many of those causing problems are aged 18 to 25 and fit a new profile of troublemaker who operate differently to the old category C hooligans and regard England’s travels with a stag-weekend culture where they take pride in behaving badly.
When officials from the travel club emailed its members after the Germany game, a 1-0 defeat for Gareth Southgate’s team that took place with a backdrop of songs such as “10 German Bombers”, they even received some replies from people arguing that what happened in Dortmund was fine. Those people are now being monitored before the World Cup in Russia next year.
Two supporters were separately identified by travel club officials making Nazi gestures and the FA is so concerned it has banned them for life, in contrast to the kind of punishments that have previously been handed out. One racist incident, for instance, in 2012, led to a supporter receiving a five-year ban. However, there are now clear indications the FA wants to take an increasingly tough stance.
Using information from its own staff, the travel club has also banned another nine members for various offences, including aggressive behaviour and ticket scams around the Germany game, with two others receiving warnings and one case pending.
A system is being introduced whereby a team of six Wembley stewards will start to travel abroad to England’s fixtures and supporters have been emailed warnings that misbehaviour will not be tolerated around the World Cup qualifier against Scotland at Hampden on Saturday. England have a 4,761-ticket allocation for what is always a high-risk fixture and, when it comes to the habit of supporters gathering in a main square, the FA wants supporters to realise that drinking alcohol in the streets is forbidden in Glasgow.
The Scottish and English football associations, along with the police, are concerned about the 5pm kick-off, designated by Uefa, and the potential for drunkenness. That, however, raises questions about why the authorities have not made a concerted push to persuade Uefa to bring it forward.
One of the other problems, namely England fans travelling without tickets, has been exacerbated by the number of supporters who have dropped out of the travel club since a controversial system was put in place in January 2014 whereby ticket-holders were offered two loyalty points for attending Wembley games and only one for going abroad with the team. That system has now been changed to two points each but the FA privately accepts it was a mistake to change it in the first place, not least because many supporters now travel independently and get tickets from touts or other means.
The travel club had 57,000 members when the new Wembley opened a decade ago. It is now down to 8,000, its lowest total, and officials have noted a substantial drop-off in the number of families. One factor is that the next two World Cups, in Russia and Qatar, have drawbacks for visiting fans. England’s poor performances in the past few tournaments have contributed as well, but the dwindling numbers are still alarming bearing in mind there were 15,000 members a year ago and closer to 30,000 at other times.
Jack Butland has admitted there were moments when he feared he might never play again during his lengthy rehabilitation from a fractured ankle as the goalkeeper, now restored to full fitness, targets a fifth cap in England’s forthcoming games against Scotland and France.
The Stoke City player last represented his country in the friendly win against Germany in Berlin in March 2016 but was substituted at half-time after breaking the joint just before the interval. His rehabilitation proved a protracted process and he did not feature for his club side for over a year, returning in a defeat at Swansea City in April, before starting Stoke’s final five games of the Premier League season.
“Being out for so long makes you stronger,” said Butland, whose form at club level had thrust him into direct competition with Joe Hart to be the national team’s No1 prior to his injury. “You reach your lowest point. There are times when you don’t know if you are going to play again, when the next operation or injection might be.
“So there are times when you are at rock bottom, but that’s when you need the people around you: your club, your fans, everything, from little tweets on social media just to give you that bit of reassurance, that bit of positivity …
“I feel like I’ve pretty much experienced everything I can in football. Positive things, winning, losing, the injury side of it all the setbacks. I’m sure there’s plenty more to experience but I’m prepared for whatever is next. It feels extremely, extremely good to be back. It’s been a long time and to get the Three Lions back on my chest after some difficult times is really good, so I’m just thoroughly enjoying being back and looking forward to the week ahead. The worst thing about being injured is just missing out on what you love.”
Butland’s recovery stretched to 13 months, ruling him out of Euro 2016, before he broke back into the Stoke first-team for that final handful of games. “Missing out on being part of a team … it can be a lonely place when you are injured,” he said. “You miss being out there with your team-mates and just experiencing the highs and the lows. It was the drive and belief of wanting to get back to where I was that kept me going. I wanted to make up for all the lost time, missing out on the Euros and missing so many Premier League games. It’s not nice not being able to do something you love.”
The 24-year-old, who worked regularly with Gareth Southgate in the under-21 set-up, is one of four goalkeepers in the squad for Saturday’s World Cup qualifier against Scotland and Tuesday’s friendly against France. The game at the Stade de France would appear to offer Butland the best opportunity of returning to the side, given Hart remains first-choice, with Fraser Forster and Tom Heaton also included.
“I’m wherever I can get myself to,” added Butland. “I understand that I’ve only played five Premier League games, but I feel I’ve produced really good performances in those games. Whatever rank I am going into these games at the weekend and Tuesday is what I’ll accept. I will back whoever is in front of me, or behind me, 100%.”
Michael Keane, who is absent from this squad through injury, travelled down to St George’s Park on Tuesday to attend Southgate’s team meeting with the manager keen to make the Burnley centre-half feel involved in the set-up.
Whatever Andy Murray decides to do when he stops playing tennis, queueing up for a job with either of the major parties going toe to toe for the keys to 10 Downing Street this week might not be high on his list of options. Nevertheless, the Scot – who favoured independence in the 2014 referendum and probably would do so again, if given the chance – has an acute social conscience, and he will not be joining the many millionaires in his sport who have chosen to register as tax exiles.
The world No1 – who is two wins away from reaching the French Open final for the second year in a row – spends little more than a month of the year at his home in Oxshott, the semi-rural idyll favoured by stockbrokers and City workers, so he has every excuse to move abroad. The quiet, pleasant patch of north Surrey is a half-hour drive from Wimbledon and has been a welcome retreat for him and his young family during the championships, a rare few weeks away from the hotels on the global tennis circuit.
Because of the travelling demands of his sport, Murray – who has career earnings of nearly $60m, a healthy portfolio to top that up and a luxury apartment in Miami, his winter training base – could legitimately live anywhere. Indeed, among his peers, half of the world’s top 20 have used just such circumstances to justify living in low-tax havens.
Monte Carlo is home to Novak Djokovic, Milos Raonic, Marin Cilic, Alexander Zverev, David Goffin, Grigor Dimitrov and Tomas Berdych, while Jo-Wilfried Tsonga and Gaël Monfils live in Switzerland, and Lucas Pouille is based in Dubai. However, as Murray said after his quick but testing win over the next “big thing” in Russian tennis, Karen Khachanov: “I like living at home. The only chance of me living somewhere else is if I had a bunch of friends or some of my family were living elsewhere and I would move to spend time with them. But I wouldn’t want to go and live somewhere not to pay any tax and not to have any of my family and friends around me. I wouldn’t do that.”
Murray always votes even though his constituency, Esher and Walton, is among the safest in the country for the Conservatives. He said he has kept an eye on the political debates before Thursday’s general election – his choice is sealed in the postal votes he and his wife, Kim, have despatched to reach the returning officer.
“We’ve watched pretty much all of them,” he said. “With the team, we watched Sky News. We didn’t watch the ITV debate, which didn’t have Corbyn or Theresa May. Then we watched the BBC one. So I’ve tried to keep up with it as much as possible.”
After his match on Court Philippe Chatrier on Monday, Murray also demonstrated that he has a social conscience and sense of the wider world that sometimes escapes celebrity athletes when, as the game’s leading player, he agreed to address the crowd with a brief and moving statement about the London Bridge terrorist attack.
“I try to follow as much of what’s going on back home as I can,” he said. “When something like that happens, it doesn’t matter where it is, that gets reported. There was a terrorist attack in Manila a few days ago, but maybe it didn’t get as much coverage as stuff in Europe.”
For now, he has to direct his energies towards handling Kei Nishikori on Wednesday. “Certainly I feel fresher than last year,” Murray said. “The start of that tournament was pretty tough. I didn’t play well in the first couple of rounds and they were hard matches. I got lucky that I ended up playing [John] Isner and [Ivo] Karlovic back to back, as they were not physical matches, really, after the first couple of rounds [each of which went five sets]. I came in then playing a lot of tennis – so the body probably feels a little bit better now than it did last year.”
Nishikori, whose match against Fernando Verdasco on Monday was his third in as many days because of the shifting schedule, was right to describe the 0-6, 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 scoreline as, “a little bit unusual”. He explained later: “This court’s bounce was really high, he was using very heavy forehand and I was running side to side. I couldn’t do anything first set but I tried to play a little more heavy and a little more aggressive, and it started to work a bit better. Still, it was really, really tough battle. There was so many long rallies, second and third sets. Physically, I’m OK.”
While Djokovic has soldiered on here since Monday without the attention of his celebrity coach, Andre Agassi (who left as soon as he had fulfilled commercial obligations with a coffee company), Murray is happy to be reunited with Ivan Lendl after three months. “It sounds simple but it is not,” he said of resuming the regime with his valued mentor. “A lot of the time when things are not going well you start over-thinking things. You start wanting to try new things on the practice court, changing tensions in your racket. You think all sorts of things to work out what is going wrong.
“But the one thing we did when Ivan got here, we went right back to the basics. The drills we were doing were all pretty simple drills. We spent a lot of time on the court. We hit lots of balls – no time in the gym, really. It was just tennis, plain tennis, and literally getting back to doing the basics right, making a lot of balls, making myself difficult to beat.
“And then, once you start to do that, you get through a couple of matches, you start feeling better, your confidence grows. It can be right down here [gesturing low with his hands], and it can go right up here pretty quickly. That has been the case so far this tournament.”
Murray’s midsummer high point – and a month of sleeping in his own bed – is not far away. He has already restored much of his bruised confidence after an ordinary clay-court campaign. If he does well in the second week here, he will be in the best possible heart to defend his title at Wimbledon. Home for Murray has always been where the hearth is.
The former Formula One driver Robert Kubica has completed a test with the Renault team in Spain, suggesting he may return to the sport he left in 2011.
The 32-year-old Polish driver, who also raced for the Sauber team, has not raced in F1 since a rallying accident in 2011 saw him partially sever his right arm.
Kubica completed a full race simulation in a 2012 E20 car during a private test at the Ricardo Tormo circuit in Valencia.
Renault revealed the test had taken place on Tuesday in a series of posts on Twitter. The team wrote: “It’s true. It really is Robert Kubica. Back in one of our cars after six years. So why did we keep it quiet? It was a private test, for Robert. But we can tell you this … Robert complained about grip, understeer, downforce and had the biggest smile on after his 115 laps!!”
Kubica, who won the 2008 Canadian Grand Prix for Sauber, returned to rallying after the accident and earlier this year tested a Formula E car at Donington Park.
Tuesday 6th June 2017. Robert #Kubica. Our #E20. Enjoy 😍 pic.twitter.com/boMsCARuWJ
The sight of an onrushing Sonny Bill Williams is not necessarily a thrilling one for defenders but the Lions centre Robbie Henshaw cannot wait to bump into the multi-talented All Black at Eden Park. The Irishman was a big schoolboy fan of Williams and describes the prospect of making his Lions debut against his one-time hero as “pretty surreal”.
While the multi-talented 31-year-old Williams – who has boxed professionally as well as playing both codes of rugby – is by no means the sole threat in an attack-minded Blues backline, he will be Henshaw’s direct opponent and is set to provide the 23-year-old with a good indication of where he sits in the international midfield pecking order.
A good game would also propel Henshaw within touching distance of a Lions Test jersey but swapping shirts with Williams would be almost as exciting.
“I was a big fan of his when I was a kid, whether it was performing in league or for the All Blacks,” says the physical Leinster player. “To be coming up against him is pretty surreal. It’s going to be tricky but I’m looking forward to playing against him and having a go.”
Henshaw is also vowing he and his team-mates will take the game to the provincial sides they encounter, rather than allow their hosts to take the initiative. “We need to come with an attack mentality here,” says Henshaw, who scored Ireland’s final try against the All Blacks in last autumn’s win in Chicago. “We can’t sit off and let these boys play because they can tear teams up in the blink of an eye. Our mentality is to go after these teams, show them we’re coming here to play and go after them in defence as well.”
Warren Gatland is also inviting his backs to take calculated risks – “If it’s on to throw a 60/40 offload he’s encouraging us to do that,” says Henshaw – and his players have stopped using jetlag as an excuse for sluggishness. “We have settled in nicely, we are feeling really fresh and are pretty much raring to go,” confirmed Henshaw. “That [jetlag] is out the window now.”
As someone who studied Gaelic in his youth, Henshaw has already risen to the challenge of speaking in the language to Maori elders at the squad’s official welcome in Waitangi last Sunday. After receiving some tips from his sister Ali, a primary school teacher, he fulfilled his ceremonial duties having received the nod ahead of his team-mate Tadhg Furlong. “As I played in the west of Ireland with Connacht and it’s an Irish-speaking area, I was directly in line for it,” he says. “I was asking Tadhg a couple of days before if he wanted to go for it but he had to prepare for the opening game – so I had to take it on.”
With Ben Te’o having made a promising start to the tour, the onus is now on Henshaw and his defensive partner Jared Payne, who used to play for the Blues, to keep Williams’s offloading game quiet: “It’s obviously the top, top level of the sport for us and to be in this position is unbelievable. I just want to go out there and do myself proud, do my family proud and do the best I can.”
It has also emerged the Lions will face a series of hakas before all their provincial games, in addition to the Tests and the fixture against the Maori. For the first time in the Blues’ 21-year history, the team will perform a pre-match haka entitled He Toa Takitini which translates as “(The Strength of Many)”. “All credit to the Lions for embracing the opportunity to face a haka before kick-off,” said Nigel Cass, New Zealand Rugby’s general manager.
Team New Zealand capsized during the run-in to the second race of their America’s Cup challenger semi-final against Great Britain’s Land Rover BAR in Bermuda. All crew members were later reported safe.
After winning the first race on Tuesday against Sir Ben Ainslie’s syndicate to move 3-0 ahead in the first-to-five contest, the New Zealanders were heading towards the start line under strong winds when the boat rose up on its foils and plunged forward into the water.
Ainslie said in a statement on BAR’s official Twitter feed: “In 30 years of racing it is the most full-on, exhilarating sailing I have ever had. The most important thing is that everyone is OK on Team New Zealand after their capsize. We look forward to seeing them back on the race course.”
At a press conference Ainslie added: “I am sure they will recover from that and be out racing tomorrow or the next day.” Racing is scheduled to resume on Wednesday if weather conditions permit.
BAR were awarded the win as a result of the incident, which now means they trail 3-1.
The Team New Zealand helmsman, Peter Burling, told the press conference the capsize was “was fully our error” because the crew were “trying to get off the start clean”.
Burling believes the “fair bit of damage” to the AC50 – which appeared to include a top section of the wing smashed – would not prevent his team resuming racing.
The winners are set to progress to the challenger final and whoever wins that takes on the defending champion, Team USA, for the America’s Cup itself.
In the other semi-final series Team Japan won both runs against Sweden’s Artemis Racing to move 3-1 ahead.
England have long searched for a game-breaking bowler in one-day cricket and the hope coming into the Champions Trophy was that the fast but physically fragile Mark Wood would be Eoin Morgan’s trump card in this regard.
In keeping with his career to date figures of nine overs, one for 32 may not leap off the page but the 87-run win over New Zealand – one that booked England’s place in the semi-finals and now gives them a free-hit to knock out Australia at Edgbaston on Saturday – certainly swung on a crucial intervention from the Durham quick.
Kane Williamson appeared locked on a course that would steer his side to their target of 311. Sat on 87 in the 31st over and with the score 158 for two, New Zealand’s ice-cool captain had ridden an early storm that included a fierce Liam Plunkett bouncer to the side of the head and looked primed to settle matters.
But Wood, thrown the ball after a groan-inducing opening spell that saw him repeatedly beat the bat, got a cross-seam delivery to rear and flick the captain’s thumb on the way through to the diving Jos Buttler behind the stumps, with the wild celebrations revealing the value of New Zealand’s prize scalp.
As well as summing up the importance of Wood to the makeup of England’s attack, the wicket of Williamson also neatly encapsulated the challenge thrown up by the Cardiff pitch. Certainly the batsman himself, a player seldom prone to offering emotion, was left shaking his head at the apparent sorcery it had thrown up even if, after the match, he had praise for the bowler.
“He’s a very good bowler,” said Williamson. “He’s unique in the fact that he bowls at such good pace, off maybe a five-metre, 10-metre run-up, which you don’t see too much around the world. And he’s performed very well for England over a period of time, especially coming back after injury. He is certainly a strength of their bowling attack.”
This was billed as the pioneers of modern one-day cricket versus the monsters they created following the World Cup two years ago. Instead it became something of a scrap and though the short straight boundaries may have been inviting, the two-paced surface meant the long ones square could not always be cleared.
There was still time for some Buttler magic, the highlight of which was his outrageously audacious ramped six towards the river
A strong wind howled all day on the banks of the river Taff too, such that bowlers frequently aborted their run-ups, the bails took on a life of their own and the umpire Bruce Oxenford – he of the bulletproof arm shield – saw his fedora fly from his head and over the ever-moving boundary rope for four.
The flags on top of the pavilion – at half-mast for the victims of the London Bridge attacks on Saturday, for whom a minute’s silence was observed half an hour into play – were horizontal for the duration of the match, as the trees that line the ground swayed like drunken festival-goers, and spectators huddled in overcoats.
The batting they witnessed from England was a curate’s egg, in that they passed 300 in the first innings for the 11th time in their last 13 attempts batting first and yet still it seemed like runs had been left behind, with not one top-order batsmen kicking on to three figures. Had it not been for Buttler’s unbeaten 48-ball 61, it might have fallen distinctly below par.
A glance at Buttler’s strike-rate of 127 would suggest him simply putting on his latest clinic in power-hitting. Instead this was more workmanlike, in his own way, as New Zealand’s attack began slamming the ball into the surface at varying speeds to leave the batsman needing to force the issue.
The situation in which Buttler found himself, with England 188 for four in the 34th over after Joe Root’s Welsh drag-on with 64 to his name, was in many ways tailor-made for his talents, and yet it was not until his 24th ball faced that a boundary came.
Among the hustled ones and twos there was still some of the Buttler magic, the highlight of which was his ramped six towards the river that was outrageously audacious in its execution. With their wicketkeeper now up and running, it means Jason Roy remains the one piece of the batting jigsaw still causing heads to be scratched among the England management.
Morgan, speaking after the match, said the no-lose nature of Saturday’s match against Australia would see him likely granted a stay of execution. Another walk across the stumps, such as those in his last two dismissals, would test the captain’s previous backing of the opener for the entire tournament.
When the Wallabies play Fiji in Melbourne on Saturday the majority of players on the field will be of Pacific Islander descent. Obviously, the Fijians are Pacific Islanders, but 18 members of the Wallabies’ 34-man squad are of Pacific Islander descent,though centre Samu Kerevi, who was one of seven Fijians, has withdrawn following an ankle injury.
At present, there is also a decent percentage of Pacific Islanders playing for the All Blacks, while there is even a sprinkling in the British and Irish Lions, plus the English, French and Japanese national teams. It raises the a question for the game on a global level: are the Pacific Island nations just becoming nurseries for the top cashed-up countries in world rugby?
It is not as if Australia, at least, is actively poaching lots of Pacific Island players, but the talent is still finding its way to these shores. The vast majority of the Pacific Islanders in the Wallabies squad are the Australian-born sons of migrants, or migrated to Australia at a young age.
In this sense they are no different to Wallabies flanker Michael Hooper, who is the son of English migrants. But there is a key difference. England has a population of 53 million, while Fiji, for example, has a population of less than one million (892,000).
Rugby is hugely popular in the Pacific Islands, but the populations and broadcast revenues in the nations which comprise it are not big enough to create the professional infrastructure needed to keep their best players at home. As a result the national teams of Fiji, Samoa and Tonga have not really progressed very far since the inaugural World Cup in 1987.
Significantly, Pacific Island teams – Fiji (1987) and Western Samoa (1991 and 1995) – reached the quarter-finals in the first three amateur World Cups, but only one (Fiji in 2007) has made the top eight of the tournament in the professional era.
The performance of the Pacific Island nations is at odds with the enormous contribution players of Pacific Island descent have made to the game around the world. Under rugby’s eligibility laws, once a player has played for one country he cannot play for another even if he was eligible by birth or parentage.
World Rugby recently increased the residency period for Test eligibility from three years to five years in an attempt to dissuade major countries from poaching Pacific Island players, but this just means scouts will identify talent at an earlier age.
One practical way to help the Pacific Islanders become more competitive is to allow players who are no longer required to play for their adopted countries to return to their nation of origin or descent. Too often Pacific Island players are capped by a major country, play a few Tests and are never seen again on the international stage.
A recent example is giant Tongan-born second rower Sitaleki Timani, the older brother of Lopeti, who played 18 Tests for the Wallabies between 2011 and 2013, but has not been required since. Timani, 30, started for Clermont in their 22-16 win against Toulon in the final of the French Top 14 last Sunday.
Former Wallabies captain Mark Ella has told Guardian Australia he thinks that letting players return to representing their Pacific Island nation of origin could work. “In principle I agree with it as long as their focus is on their nation of origin,” Ella says. “They could add value and help build the reputation of the Pacific Island teams. I would have no problem with that.”
Which leaves a slightly more awkward question. Does the world of rugby really want to help the Pacific Island nations, or is it afraid they could become too competitive?
Eoin Morgan heaped praise on his bowlers after England’s 87-run victory over New Zealand sealed a Champions Trophy semi-final berth and a chance to knock rivals Australia out of the tournament in their final group game at Edgbaston on Saturday.
Morgan saw the wickets shared among his attack as New Zealand were bowled out for 223 in 44.3 overs chasing 311 for the win, with Liam Plunkett picking up four for 55 to top the figures.
Jake Ball, who was named man of the match, and the returning Adil Rashid picked up two apiece, while Mark Wood’s removal of Kane Williamson for 87 was pivotal.
“I thought they did an outstanding job” said Morgan. “They were truly the highlight of the day. Our batting performance was probably par or below par, pretty average, so I thought the bowlers as a collective unit were brilliant, really.” On the batting, which saw Joe Root top score with 64 but England bowled out for 310 with three balls to spare, Morgan added: “I thought we looked like we were getting about 340 at one stage, but we fell away, which is disappointing. But the fact that we’re still trying to win games with the bat, regardless of the situation that we’re in, I think is testament to the team. We’re staying true to what we believe in and what we’ve achieved over the last couple of years.”
Asked what approach his side will take into the Australia match, given they have now won Group A, Morgan replied: “A very serious attitude. We never take any opposition for granted. I think if we’re truly going to be contenders for this tournament, we need to beat the best teams and Australia are one of the best teams.”
Williamson, who escaped a ban for his side’s slow over rate but was docked 40% of his match fee to go with 20% for his players, had few complaints over the result and admitted England’s attack simply made better use of the two-paced pitch.
“A credit to the way England bowled,” Williamson said. “They got a lot out of the surface. They bowled very consistently, and made life difficult for us with the bat. Maybe the pitch changed just a fraction but they exploited it by cross seamers hitting the wicket hard. They’re all big lads, and they pretty much hit that six-metre length and created a little variability out of the surface. They didn’t give us much at all, to be fair.”
Chris Woakes, meanwhile, has revealed he is likely to miss England’s first Test of the summer, with the injury that ended his tournament against Bangladesh last Thursday revealed to be a grade-two tear in his left side that will take up to six weeks of recovery.
England take on South Africa at Lord’s on 8 June – Joe Root’s first Test as captain – and Woakes said: “I’m probably up against it. Sometimes these things heal quicker, sometimes they take longer, so we have to play it by ear. You can’t rush back – if you do, it can just ping again. The timing of it is frustrating, it’s terrible, but it’s one of those things.”
Rain and wind scudded through Paris on day 10 of the 2017 French Open, punching a three-hour hole in the schedule, but it was worth the wait for the combustible but talented teenager Jelena Ostapenko, and the Swiss outsider, Timea Bacsinszky, who will meet in the semi-finals on Thursday. As it happens they share a birthday that day, which is taking Hollywood scriptwriting to absurdity.
Ostapenko, who turns 20 on the biggest day of her career, said after beating Caroline Wozniacki in three sets: “It was tough because we had to go away two times from the court and Caroline is such a tough opponent. It’s great to play here on my birthday. I am really going to enjoy it.”
Bacsinszky, who is 28 on match day, finally got the better of the French favourite Kristina Mladenovic, 17 places ahead of her in the rankings at 14, having led 6-4, 1-1 before they departed Court Philippe Chatrier around 3.30pm. On resumption she held her nerve to close out the second set for the loss of a further three games over a full course of an hour and 49 minutes.
She said: “We had all the seasons in one day today – there was a storm, sunshine and I think even snow! It was very tough and to keep concentration was very difficult. I am exhausted.”
On Court Suzanne Lenglen, Wozniacki should have had – on ranking, experience, pedigree and sentiment – the beating of the not-quite-so-popular Ostapenko (who had an infamous bust-up with Britain’s Naomi Broady in New Zealand last year), but the precocious Latvian showed enormous cool to win 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.
The former British No1 Annabel Croft said of Ostapenko: “She reminds me of a young Monica Seles. She hits the line time and time again.”
At several points on Tuesdayyesterday it looked as if there would not be a single completed match as wave after wave of windswept rain thrashed through Roland Garros.
Unfortunately for the men, there was no space left in the day for the quarter-finals between Rafael Nadal, still the outright favourite, and his Spanish compatriot Pablo Carreño Busta, or the match between Novak Djokovic and Dominic Thiem, whom the second seed beat out of sight in the semi-finals in Rome two weekends ago.
The forecast for Wednesday is fine, so they should have no problem completing their obligations and still have a day’s rest before the semi-finals on Friday. In the other men’s quarters on Wednesday Andy Murray plays Kei Nishikori and Stan Wawrinka, the No3 seed, takes on Marin Cilic.
In a tournament that has had controversy lurking like a cloud, the outspoken Australian Pat Cash entered the fray with a few harsh words for Murray’s coach, Ivan Lendl. “He is by far the most annoying person in the locker room that I have ever met in my life,” Cash said on Eurosport.
The former Wimbledon champion added: “And I’m not joking. First of all he’s got really bad jokes, they’re just horrendous, and he’s really loud. Certainly during my career he was always the loudest, he was like the king of the jungle.
“There was always a bit of chest-thumping going on amongst various players, and certain players liked that. Ivan was just one of those guys. He was always making fun of somebody or picking on you and that was his way of putting you down – you probably wouldn’t be surprised to hear that I gave a lot back as well.
“But he is the complete opposite [to what you see on TV]. I’ve been down in the locker room today a fair bit and Ivan was doing the same thing, telling jokes. It’s kind of cool because it keeps it very light and he’s not quite as loud as he used to be.
“It keeps it light and the players can relax and of course Andy’s got a full team there. Mark Bender [his physio] is there and he’s very easygoing. You need people like that. But, when it comes down to business, they get on with it. They don’t mess around. They’re a very professional team.”
England became the first side to secure a semi-final berth in the Champions Trophy by defeating New Zealand in conditions that would have had gnarled old yachtsmen scrambling for the shore and abandoned umbrellas flying off to the next county. That semi-final will take place in Cardiff on 14 June. Before that there is the small matter of a group game against Australia at Edgbaston on Saturday. Another victory there would send the Australians home.
Here, England won by 87 runs. Having batted competently to post 310 they bowled and fielded with superb discipline and intelligence, as polished a performance as they have delivered this season, especially since this was their most important match of the summer.
The pace bowlers, who were often blown off course in their approach to the wicket, were bang on target and brimful of intent. They even discovered an uneven patch just short of a length which made a few deliveries misbehave on what had hitherto been regarded as a blameless surface. At last the poor bowlers had something to aim at.
Critically one of those mischievous deliveries was directed at Kane Williamson and it would produce the key dismissal. Williamson had batted calmly for 87 and New Zealand, on 158 for two, were on course when Mark Wood ran up to bowl. The Kiwi captain, disconcerted by steep bounce, ended up gloving the ball to Jos Buttler behind the stumps; he left staring angrily at the surface, a signal that would not have a benign effect on his dressing room.
Now England seized their chance magnificently. They sensed the Kiwi batsmen had started to mistrust the pitch –Liam Plunkett had already caused some consternation when hitting Williamson on the helmet and Ross Taylor on the hand – and they gave them no respite. Jake Ball, who had started with two maidens, was as unrelenting as his senior partners and ended up as the man of the match. Ben Stokes, though a little more expensive, was hostile and appeared to bowl without pain. Morgan asked him to bowl eight overs. He would probably have bowled 10 if the match had gone the distance.
Adil Rashid, restored to the side, bowled as well as he has ever done in this format in conditions that offered him very little assistance. He is now surely in England’s best side even if the opponents are from Asia. After Williamson’s departure England’s out-cricket was flawless except for a spurned caught and bowled chance by Rashid. None of the Kiwis could threaten and the wickets fell in a flurry.
It ended up as a stroll yet at the halfway stage England’s total felt respectable but not invincible. Their innings never quite took off but it was never completely grounded either. In these conditions it was remarkable that the quality of the cricket from both sides was so high. At times the gusts reached 50mph, treacherously buffeting bowlers, while it was tricky for the batsmen to stand still.
Sometimes the electronic advertising hoardings were blown over; so too were the triangular covers stationed over the boundary ropes, which were often tossed infield. At least the gales blew away the rain.
As a consequence the game was almost unrecognisable, especially when the bowling was from the Taff end. The boundary there is perilously short even in normal conditions so later in the innings the Kiwi bowlers tried to take the straight hit out of the equation. Hence they bowled a succession of bouncers, fast and slow, so that the batsmen had to hit towards the long boundary and crucially into the wind. Given the exploits of the England bowlers from that end later in the day they might have been better advised to bang the ball in on a length more frequently in pursuit of some of the uneven bounce found by Plunkett and Wood.
The England batsmen, marshalled by Buttler at the end, gleaned their runs pragmatically, apart from a barren last over. They might have scored more but every time a promising partnership was about to flourish a wicket fell.
That even applied during the opening partnership since Jason Roy lasted a little longer than usual. He was there for eight overs and 13 runs before trying something extravagant against Adam Milne. He shimmied to the offside, prematurely leaving his leg stump exposed and that is where the ball ended up. Roy departed in a fury, presumably at his own premeditation. There can be no guarantees that he keeps his place against Australia.
Thereafter England were indebted to significant rather than major contributions from Alex Hales, Joe Root, Stokes and Buttler. As at The Oval against Bangladesh, Hales was dismissed straight after hitting a six, something for him to ponder.
Root purred as usual, caressing two sixes off the left-arm spinner, Mitchell Santner, in the knowledge that he only had to clear mid-on. In his partnership with Stokes he was frequently denied the strike (he faced 15 balls to Stokes’s 37) and this seemed to upset his rhythm. He was bowled off his inside edge, almost his first false shot.
Stokes, who hit some wonderfully crisp boundaries, in between the dots was caught at third man and then Buttler did his stuff. In fact he was not as fluent as usual; his first boundary came from his 24th delivery and that was an edge over the keeper, but he was never becalmed. Later another shot from Buttler headed over Luke Ronchi behind the stumps but this one was intentional: a preposterous ramp over his shoulder off Trent Boult nearly struck a cameraman high above the sightscreen, who up until then had thought that the gusting wind was his biggest threat.
British Cycling is poised to sever its last remaining physical ties with Team Sky by asking the professional squad to move out of the Manchester velodrome which they have used as a shared home for the past seven years.
Board members at British Cycling are understood to have pushed for a discernible split between the two organisations which have shared a base and personnel since Team Sky were founded in 2010. They believe it would be a significant move in the battle to restore British Cycling’s reputation, with an announcement expected early next week.
The closeness of the two has been the source of great consternation during the past 14 months as each lurched from one damaging episode to another.
While British Cycling was fighting claims of a culture of favouritism and bullying made by the sprint rider Jess Varnish, it was also dragged into the crisis surrounding Team Sky, Sir Bradley Wiggins and a mystery medical package delivered to the rider at the end of the Critérium du Dauphiné race in June 2011.
While Team Sky also have bases in France and Belgium they still rent office space from British Cycling at the velodrome on the outskirts of Manchester which its director of business operations, Fran Millar, uses and where the team principal, Sir Dave Brailsford, regularly holds meetings.
But this is likely to come to an end after various British Cycling stakeholders determined a divide to be the best way forward. Team Sky are thought to be looking for another location in Manchester to set up home.
Brailsford was the architect of both teams’ successes, forming Team Sky on the back of British Cycling’s huge medal haul at the Beijing Olympics in 2008. Initially they shared medical personnel and facilities, intellectual property and mechanics.
By early 2010 it was deemed necessary to instruct the consultancy firm Deloitte at a cost of £40,000, shared by UK Sport and British Cycling, to conduct a review into possible conflicts of interest. It determined there was a benefit to Olympic and Paralympic riders from their relationship with the Sky programme. In many ways that has proved to be accurate, with British cyclists continuing to dominate on the world stage in the velodrome and on the roads.
But the questions about whether the relationship with the media conglomerate left publicly funded British Cycling compromised have endured. For the past eight years Sky have given £2.5m a year in sponsorship to British Cycling. Some of that has been used to develop mass-participation cycling but a chunk has also gone towards supporting the Olympic team, who won eight gold medals at London 2012 and six in Rio in 2016.
Last year Sky dropped its backing for the participation programme and was replaced by HSBC but continue to back the professional Team Sky programme, standing by Brailsford and the riders amid a range of controversies.
British Cycling insists it no longer shares personnel with Team Sky and that any joint resources have been drastically scaled back over the past three years. But there is still a presence of Team Sky riders at the velodrome.
A UK anti-doping investigation into the mystery Jiffy bag package delivered to Wiggins, which took 1,000 man hours, twice led to the medical room at the velodrome in east Manchester being raided by investigators in searches for evidence.
Damian Collins, the chair of the culture, media and sport committee, said the saga left the reputations of both organisations “in tatters”. It emerged that Dr Richard Freeman, who divided his time between the two teams for a period, had received the package.
Simon Cope, a British Cycling women’s team coach at the time, dropped his other responsibilities and drove to France with the Jiffy bag, working on a freelance basis for Team Sky. A sizeable quantity of the controversial corticosteroid triamcinolone, at the centre of the story, had also been ordered into British Cycling’s medicine cabinet.
The blurred relationship between the two was heavily criticised by Collins and his select committee colleagues, and the British Cycling chairman, Jonathan Browning, said this year it would be subject of further examination. He said at the time: “There are some areas where there will be benefit of supporting each other and sharing but they need to be very clearly defined and boundaries drawn between the two organisations. I would characterise the separation as substantial now.
“There is still contact between the two organisations and there are no individuals with dual roles, but we are going to step back and look at it again to make sure we avoid any potential conflict of interest.”
The Ukad probe into the mystery Jiffy bag continued to rumble on. The Guardian understands Ukad investigators working on the case travelled to Manchester to meet with the former British Cycling technical director Shane Sutton on Tuesday.
The final report into claims of sexism and discrimination at British Cycling made by Varnish and other riders is due to be published next week after six months of delays and the Ukad investigation into the triamcinolone allegations continues.
Romelu Lukaku says remaining at Everton next season “is not really an option” and suggested his agent has reached an agreement over personal terms with a rival club, believed to be Chelsea, as he seeks to make his mark with a team in the Champions League.
The striker, who began Belgium’s friendly victory over Czech Republic on Monday in the run-up to a World Cup qualifier in Estonia on Friday, cast his future into doubt at Goodison Park in March when he confirmed he had rejected a lucrative new contract.
He has now stated his intention is to leave this summer though Everton will seek £100m for the services for a player who is contracted for a further two years, a world record fee Chelsea will be reluctant to pay for a forward they sold for £28m in 2014.
Yet, while he has also attracted tentative interest from Manchester United and Bayern Munich, Lukaku’s heart is set on a return to Stamford Bridge with the onus now effectively on the Premier League champions to negotiate a deal with his current club.
“Staying at Everton is not really an option for next season,” the striker said. “I am staying calm about everything. There is nothing concrete with another club at the moment, but my agent is busy discussing things. I’m not going to make big declarations on my future, but I know where I want to play: in a club who are competing in the Champions League and can win titles in England. Staying in England is best for me. I know the competition, and I’ve almost reached 100 goals in the league, which is a milestone I want to achieve.
“The Premier League is a dream for me, but I also want to win the Champions League, the FA Cup and other prizes. I don’t want to stay at the same level. I want to improve, and I know where I want to do that.
“My agent is now talking to a club. I know where I want to go, so I’ll just stay patient. I know meetings have been arranged, so I’m just waiting for a call. We are now in discussions with the club. We’ll see what happens.”
Lukaku conducted a number of interviews on Monday night and Tuesday, including one in English to Sky Sports in which he added: “My agent knows what’s going to happen and I know as well. I’m staying calm and we have an agreement with the club as well.
“We have a direction where we want to go. I’m just going to rest for a few days and then just prepare for next season. I want to put the time in on my holiday to take everything to another level and be better than I was last year.”
It remains to be seen whether compromise can be reached between Chelsea and Everton over a fee or, indeed, if the Premier League champions still prioritise Lukaku’s purchase if Diego Costa is to remain at the club next season.
The Spain forward is resisting the chance to move to the Chinese Super League, where Tianjin Quanjian were initially prepared to pay £76m for his services, with his preference very much a return to Atlético Madrid instead. However the Spanish club are currently operating under an incoming transfer ban and will not be able to sign players until January 2018.
The Miami-Dade Commission voted on Tuesday to approve a deal to sell David Beckham’s group nearly three acres of county land, representing a major hurdle cleared in the former England and Manchester United star’s push to bring a Major League Soccer team to the city.
The commissioners voted nine to four in favor to ratify a recommendation by the mayor to sell Beckham’s partnership a county truck-depot at the corner of Northwest Sixth Street and Sixth Avenue, which would become the last piece in a nine-acre site for a planned 25,000-seat stadium on the Miami River.
“By purchasing the last piece of land needed for our privately-funded stadium, Miami Beckham United (MBU) is achieving another major milestone on the way to Major League Soccer formally awarding Miami a franchise,” read a statement from MBU. “[The group has] assembled a world-class team of partners, presented a vision for building the premier soccer club in the Americas, and assembled the land needed to build our stadium. Now is the time for MLS to move forward in helping us deliver the soccer club that Miami has been waiting for.”
Beckham’s group will pay just over $9 million for the last piece of land. It has already paid $19 million for the other six acres needed. Beckham’s group says the planned stadium would be privately funded, and the stadium would also be subject to county property tax.
It’s a major development in what has been at times an arduously slow – and often frustrating – process for the English soccer icon and his plans for Miami. MLS has not officially awarded Miami an expansion franchise, because of the lack of a land and stadium deal.
A contract he signed in 2007 with the Los Angeles Galaxy gave Beckham the right to start an expansion franchise for $25 million, and in 2013 he picked Miami as where he would want to put a team. The plan has changed many times along the way, most notably because he was unable to get waterfront land that his group first coveted for a stadium site.
“I will tell you this is probably the best site we have found, for many respects,” Beckham group attorney Neisen Kasdin said, before listing reasons that include the site’s proximity to several modes of public transportation and the Miami River.
The vote in Miami on Beckham’s land deal was preceded by several members of the community urging commissioners to vote no, mostly citing noise and traffic concerns.
“This land has been an eyesore for years. ... Something needs to be done with it, now,” said commissioner Audrey Edmonson, who represents the neighborhood where the stadium is planned.
The deal that allowed the Miami Marlins to get a new taxpayer-built ballpark on the former Orange Bowl site is still the source of major contention for the city and the county. There’s also skepticism about the Beckham group’s plan to build a stadium with no on-site parking, with plans instead to rely on shuttles, walking and public transportation.
“As far as sports deals go with the county, this one isn’t so bad,” commissioner Joe Martinez said.
Beckham is not the only soccer name pursuing MLS expansion these days; Landon Donovan has joined the ownership group that is hoping to bring a team to San Diego.
It has not been easy going for either.
The victory for Beckham came just one day after San Diego’s city council decided not to finance a special election that would have brought plans of building a new soccer complex there to a vote. In a pair of tweets, Donovan wrote that “we have to respect the process” and that “just because we’re down at halftime doesn’t mean we stop trying.”
Much has changed for Lizzie Deignan since her victory in the 2016 Women’s Tour. Twelve months ago she was still Lizzie Armitstead – before her marriage in September to the Irish racer Philip Deignan – she was wearing the rainbow jersey of the world road race champion and, most notably, she was racing under the threat of a two-year suspension having just been given a provisional third “strike” for infringements of the whereabouts system.
The first of the three strikes was overturned in late July 2016 by the court of arbitration for sport, so she was not banned in the end, but Deignan has described how hard she found it to compete and appear in front of the public with her fate still to be decided. She also explained that, given UK Anti-Doping had yet to confirm that strike from early June, she felt she had no choice but to ride.
“By the end of the Women’s Tour this year I will be strike-free, which is nice, but that whole period is a blur. It feels like old news now. I’m supposed to have come to terms with it, but there will always be two camps – people who believe in me and those who don’t,” says Deignan.
“I’m getting there, I’m not totally back to normal, I’m always on the look-out for the next drama. I’m reluctant to get too comfortable. I’m lucky that within our sport there is always a race just around the corner. No one ever asks me about it in Europe, but I’m asked a lot by the UK press.”
Rather than being based in Monaco as usual, Deignan has spent the past month in England building towards her home Tour following victory in the 122km Women’s Tour of Yorkshire on 29 April. “It’s been really good. The terrain is relentless so I’ve been slogging away. I’ve just been building a base after the spring,” she says. “Hopefully the Women’s Tour will give me some speed ahead of the national championships. I’ll be looking to come out stronger than I go in.”
As last year, she will start as favourite on a course which again includes a hilly stage on the Saturday after three days on the rolling roads of the Midlands and Cotswolds but she admits to being concerned about the threatening form of last year’s runner-up, the South African Ashleigh Moolman-Pasio.
Deignan’s Yorkshire win ended a spring in which she scored three second places to her team-mate Anna van der Breggen in the triptych of Ardennes Classics – Flèche Wallonne, Liège-Bastogne-Liège and Amstel Gold.
“I was definitely struggling at the start of the season with illness, and it was hard because I was so successful the year before. We had dual leadership in the Ardennes, we dominated and each time Anna went for it so we couldn’t ask for more as a team. I have to learn to attack after she does as each time I’d attack, I’d be brought back, then Anna would go for it.”
Van der Breggen repaid Deignan with strong support in the Yorkshire race, which she describes as “really important. It had live television all the way through so we could showcase what we do, how [her team] Boels-Dolmans do our job. It was a very special win because all my friends and family were there and I knew the roads. Normally attacking from 50 kilometres out is crazy but I knew what the roads would be doing to the riders behind me.”
After this week, Deignan’s priority will be taking a second world title in September on a course in Bergen which she feels suits her, having visited it in early May. “I liked it, it’s a hard climb to do eight times.” There in Norway she will be reunited with a Great Britain team for which she has had hard words in the past. She has not yet heard from the new performance director, Stephen Parks, but appears to have built a good working relationship with Julian Winn, the coach who looked after the Great Britain women in the run-in to the 2008 Beijing Games.
In the four editions since its inception in 2014 the Women’s Tour has gradually moved towards maturity, working from the principle that in terms of prize money and logistical back-up – such as hotel accommodation – women cyclists should be given precisely the same treatment as their male counterparts.
It now again shares a title sponsor with the men’s race, OVO Energy, the stages have been lengthened and last year it was routed over the Peak District to test the field to the full, an experiment which is repeated on Saturday.
This year’s innovation is a circuit race in central London on Sunday using the same extended course used in the past by the men’s Tour of Britain, which is unlikely to change the final outcome, but will provide a valuable showcase. The final hurdle is British Cycling’s unwillingness to let the organisers extend the event to seven days, thinking which could seem distinctly backward if this week’s race is a success.
Turkey’s captain, Arda Turan, has announced that he is quitting the team following a bust-up with a reporter on the flight back from a friendly international in Macedonia.
The Barcelona midfielder admitted he had made a mistake while representing his country, and was ending a career with the national team after 94 caps and 17 goals. But he said he did not regret the clash with Milliyet reporter on the flight after Turkey drew 0-0 on Monday, saying Bilal Mese had insulted him during the Euro 2016 tournament in France.
The broadcaster CNN Turk quoted Mese as saying Turan attacked him shortly after boarding the plane, hurling insults and swinging punches at him despite being restrained by another journalist, a security guard and team personnel. Mese said he would take legal action against Turan.
“At first I thought he was joking … Then, one of his punches swung by,” CNN Turk quoted Mese as saying.
Commenting on the events on the flight to Slovenia, where Turkey will train before a World Cup qualifier in Kosovo on Sunday, Turan said the reporter had spread rumours and insulted his family values while covering Euro 2016.
He said: “I made a mistake while wearing the national team uniform. It was something that should not have happened on the national team plane,” he said. “Do I regret it? No, I feel like a bird because I never forgot what was said about me.
“I am putting an end to my national team career. I am speaking as someone who has served at every level of the national team, who loves his country and is in love with this jersey.”
Turan was widely criticised for a disappointing performance at Euro 2016. The the 30-year-old joined Barcelona from Atlético Madrid in July 2015.
Turkey are fourth in the World Cup qualifying Group I with eight points from five matches, five adrift of the leaders Croatia and two behind second-placed Iceland.
Only three players in the Premier League have the ability, when at their awesome best, to make everyone else on the pitch look like immature creatures, toddlers trying and failing to compete with giants. Two of those players are on the wane – Yaya Touré and Zlatan Ibrahimovic – but the other should be approaching his prime. If Liverpool sign Virgil van Dijk they will be making the ultimate upgrade to their team.
On one level it could be argued that to splurge £60m or thereabouts on any player is to blare a huge scouting or coaching failure, since a really savvy club might be able find or develop a less obvious solution. But in terms of forking out for a surefire success, there is no better signing than Van Dijk that Jürgen Klopp could make to improve his rickety defence, no single purchase that could demonstrate more clearly Liverpool’s determination to clamber back atop that long-vacated perch.
Doubts about the seriousness of that ambition gained traction recently as the club’s apparent willingness to make do with half-cocked solutions suggested that their American owners might be satisfied with becoming the new Arsenal, full of tempered hope rather than true-blooded conviction. Signing Van Dijk would dispel such a notion. Of course if Van Dijk really has set his heart on a move to Anfield, then failing to complete the deal now, especially due to gauche antagonisation of the potential seller, would make the new Arsenal tag so apt that Liverpool might as well bang a cannon on their crest.
Van Dijk was majestic at Celtic and has been regal at Southampton, where, as soon as he arrived two years ago, he assumed a lordly guise, healing everyone who pined for Toby Alderweireld. Powerful, fast and perceptive, he dominates in the air and on the ground, often with seemingly effortless grace. Simon Mignolet and Liverpool’s defenders have seemed locked into the opposite of a symbiotic relationship, a mutually debilitating bind in which the flaws of each sap the confidence of the other and ensnare the lot of them in a vicious circle of decrepitude. Van Dijk is commanding enough to break that chain and impose order and confidence. That does not mean, of course, that Liverpool would not benefit from enriching their squad with a goalkeeper and left-back as solid as Fraser Forster and Ryan Bertrand respectively, but Van Dijk’s arrival would make such additions less urgent.
Liverpool badly need a wholesome meat-and-potatoes centre-back, a stalwart who excels at defending’s fundamentals. Picture Mamadou Sakho on a good day. Now picture Sakho having a good day nearly every day. But Van Dijk is much more than that. He is that most precious of talents, a ball-playing centre-back of the sort that John Stones can supposedly become, a stopper who also creates. He can sashay forward with even more finesse than Joël Matip and, to boot, is a potent aerial threat from set pieces and can even take a mean free-kick. Whether in a back three or a back four, he could be Liverpool’s answer to David Luiz, and more.
If Van Dijk is sincere about wanting to join Liverpool despite more lucrative offers from elsewhere, that speaks well of his character and that of Klopp. It suggests that he distinguishes between merely winning and winning gloriously, being a champion and a hero. At Liverpool his aim would be to become a leader in the team who satisfy one of English football’s most intense cravings, that generation-long yearning for the restoration of their domestic crown, and maybe their European one too. Nothing he could achieve at Chelsea or Manchester City could beat that.
If Southampton were to be seen to sell Van Dijk without a fight, meanwhile, then that, on the back of so many other sales, would confirm that they have different ambitions. To be acclaimed as canny scouts and developers would appear to be enough for them, and would make them, in one sense, a definitive success story of the Premier League age: expert and very well-paid middle men.
Sometimes the transfer market resembles one of the more elaborate submissions for the Turner Art Prize, as if conceived primarily for shock value rather than any reasonable standard of beauty or efficacy. One day it will be revealed that Mesut Özil’s Arsenal contract was created from microscopic reproductions of Dr Crippen’s moustache, that the fee Manchester United paid for Paul Pogba was delivered to Juventus entirely in the form of pickled sharks, and that David Luiz’s’s towels are fashioned out of kitten eyebrows interweaved with hyper-absorbent rhino ear-hair. Meanwhile an entire wing of the Tate Modern will be dedicated to the works of Mino Raiola, where men with metal-rimmed glasses and hipster beards will stroke their chins pensively while discussing, on a vaguely related theme, whether it is indeed the case that the first two initials in JMW Turner’s name stood for Jorge Mendes.
It is currently hard to tell if Virgil van Dijk is actually still a footballer, or some kind of installation who exists only to provoke debate and controversy. Is he staying or going? What is his value? What is value anyway? If a footballer’s “price” in the “market” is a reflection of his on-field performances, how has Van Dijk’s managed to rise by £20m over the last five months, when he has been knacked for four-and-a-half of them? Does he intend to join Manchester City, Chelsea, Everton, Arsenal or Liverpool, or to remain in Southampton? Is harmony achieved in the composition through formal, asymmetrical, or intuitive balance devices?
The story in brief: 13 months ago the Dutchman penned a new six-year contract with Southampton, legally tying himself to the club until his early 30s. “I’m so pleased, I’m so happy,” he trousered. “The club is growing and I definitely want to grow with them, that’s how I feel. Hopefully we can make it happen.” Now he feels he has outgrown them, while the only thing he still hopes to make happen is a move to Liverpool. His six-year contract quelled transfer speculation for less than six months, by which time rumours had started proliferating like rats in a particularly fetid sewer. According to the national press in January, Southampton were valuing him at £50m, in May at £60m and in June at £70m, while chairman Ralph Krueger publicly insisted all along he was going nowhere. “Virgil is committed to us for a long time,” he said in February, “and we don’t see anything but that in our future.”
In the last 24 hours widespread media reports have claimed Van Dijk has decided to join Liverpool “because”, to quote the Mirror, “of the vision Jürgen Klopp sold to the defender”. Southampton read these reports with arched eyebrows, in the belief that the only people actually permitted to sell Van Dijk anything to do with vision would be opticians and double glazing salesmen, and then they phoned the Premier League and said something along the lines of, “Oi”. The Premier League is investigating.
And thus we are presented with another summer Southampton-Liverpool transfer saga, which will be welcomed by fans of seminal 2014 pieces “Adam Lallana” and “Dejan Lovren”, the 2015 conceptual work “Nathaniel Clyne” and 2016’s “Sadio Mané”, but which others will inevitably consider somewhat derivative. Sure, it’s not groundbreaking, but in The Fiver’s view compared with the artist’s previous work the composition on this occasion is more refined, the colours more vibrant, and yet it still conveys the same essential message which – and our art appreciation isn’t always up to much but we think we’ve got the measure of this one – is something along the lines of: “Dear God please make it stop.”
“I loved him. He was everything that you want in a Newcastle player. Life is not fair sometimes and I will remember Cheick Tioté as a giant of a midfielder whom I loved to manage” – former Magpies manager Alan Pardew on the desperately sad news of the Ivorian’s death, at the age of 30, after reportedly suffering a heart attack while training with Beijing Enterprises in China.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“Not wishing to be pedantic, but I must take issue with Mitch Abidor’s use of the word ‘pedantic’ when referring to the MTA information site (yesterday’s Fiver letters). ‘Pedantic’ implies an unnecessary concern with low-level details, whereas a route map, timetable, etc would merely provide accurate factual information” – Neil Bage.
“Re: yesterday’s Fiver. I’ve just bought my popcorn ready to sit back and read the feedback and calculations from your plethora of aerodynamics experts bound to take the bait for the next three days or more” – Julian Dark.
[Tumbleweed]
.@thefiver 's worst nightmare https://t.co/kudqm6EEGd
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Ben Osborne.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
The 2022 World Cup has been plunged into doubt after Qatar’s neighbours broke off diplomatic relations and blockaded its borders.
Real Madrid mastervillain Pepe will leave the club on a free transfer this summer … and he could be Premier League-bound. Woof! “I’ve had years of great pride in which I have given my body and soul,” he cooed, after writhing on the floor for a good few minutes. “I’m happy for the love of the people, and that’s worth more than everything.”
Dortmund have appointed Peter Bosz as their new head coach. “I have mixed feelings about this move,” sniffed Ajax suit Edwin van der Sar. “When we brought Peter to Ajax last summer it was not the intention that the partnership would end after one year.”
Luciano Spalletti should imminently be announced as Inter’s new coach after flying out to meet the club’s owners in China. “It’s all done because we’ve shaken hands,” he whooped. “I’m one of those old-fashioned types who does things with a shake of the hand.”
Arsenal’s first summer signing is Bosnia-Herzegovina left-back Sead Kolasinac, who’ll pitch up at the Emirates on a free next month.
Meanwhile, over in the USA! USA!! USA!!! …
England captain Steph Houghton is targeting Big Cup glory after extending her contract with Manchester City Women. “I am looking forward to working with the team next season to challenge for even more titles,” she cheered.
And Arda Turan has been dropped by Turkey amid reports he had a full and frank on-plane discussion with a member of the press pack.
Here’s David Squires on Real Madrid’s Big Cup win, Him and Po’ Gigi.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seems to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
With one swish of his left boot, Cheick Tioté was a Newcastle cult hero: Nick Ames pays tribute to the Ivorian midfielder.
When England’s players met the Royal Marines – in pictures.
It’s been the same old same old at the top of most major European leagues this season, but does this signal unhealthy spirit-crushing predictability, or is there a good deal more going on than that? Our writers give their verdicts.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
Three Michigan State football players have been charged with criminal sexual conduct in connection with an incident that occurred on campus in January.
Arrests warrants signed Tuesday by an Ingham County judge name Donnie Corley, Demetric Vance and Josh King. It was not clear when they would be arraigned.
Corley and Vance face third-degree criminal sexual conduct. King is charged with first- and third-degree criminal sexual conduct and distributing an image of an unclothed person. King is alleged to have forced the woman into sex acts in a bathroom before inviting Corley and Vance into the room separately, where she was forced into oral sex.
Coach Mark Dantonio says all three players have been dismissed from the football program. They had already been suspended from the program in February after the school became aware of the allegations. “Sexual assault has no place in our community, and I want to share my deep concern for the young woman affected and her family,” said Dantonio via statement.
“This is an extremely challenging situation that we have taken very seriously and has affected everyone in this program. The high standards I have established for this program will not change, and the values that we teach to everyone in this program will be enforced. I expect all of our players and staff to conduct themselves in a manner that reflect the ideals of this university.”
Four of the 20 football players who joined Michigan State as freshmen in 2016 have now been charged with sexual assault. Auston Robertson was charged over an alleged rape in April and was dismissed from the program. Karen Truszkowski, who is representing King, Vance and Corley’s alleged victim, said that the school’s internal investigation had not looked at whether sexual assault was endemic to the program. “These are not the only incidents. There are a whole lot more out there,” Truszkowski said. “Is there a problem? You do the math.”
Vance, 20, is a redshirt defensive back from Detroit. Corley, 19, is a receiver from Detroit. King, also 19, is a freshman defensive end from Darien, Illinois.
It’s said that when Sultan Abdulaziz saw his very first game of cricket, between two teams of British officers, he told them that he thought the sport was “wonderful” but wondered why, since bowling seemed so “needlessly exhausting”, the men didn’t get their “servants and concubines” to perform it for them. The Sultan, who was eventually overthrown, imprisoned and murdered, had what you might politely describe as some eccentric ideas about how society should function, but with cricket, at least, he was on to something.
“There is more glamour attached to batting than bowling,” Don Bradman once wrote, since “the majority of people go to cricket hoping to see a scintillating innings”. Bowlers, Bradman reckoned, must “possess a tremendous love” for cricket. “What else would drive them to such exertions?”
The bowler’s lot is a rough one. If the workload is lighter now, the job has seldom seemed so utterly thankless. In the first four days of the Champions Trophy, we had successive totals of 305 for six and 308 for two, 291 and 53 for three, 299 for six and 203, 319 for three and 164. The 45 bowlers in the thick of all this managed exactly eight maidens between them. Altogether, they took just 42 of the 80 wickets on offer, at an average of 46 and an economy rate of 5.92. Before the tournament, we had England’s 328 against Ireland at Lord’s, their 339, and 330 against South Africa, and in the tournament warm-ups, totals of 318 and 319 in Australia’s match against Sri Lanka, 341 and 342 when Bangladesh played Pakistan, 324 by India, and then 356 and 359 between Sri Lanka and New Zealand.
Parse all that as the numerical expression of a whole lot of pain. It seems there are now two ways to keep a team to a total under 300. One is to pray for rain, and the other is to hope they stumble in their own hurry to score quickly and collapse in a heap. Which, if you’ve been paying close attention, won’t come as much of a surprise, because scoring rates have been rising steadily since the start of this decade.
It’s that exact reason, in fact, that makes it easy to forget just how large a leap forward the game has taken in the last 10 years. I watched England’s second ODI against South Africa with an old friend who’s moved to the US. It had been a while since he’d seen a one-day game. “Remind me,” he said at one point, “is 300 still a good total or not?”
Well, no, not really. In 2009, the overall bowling economy rate in ODIs topped five for the first time. In 2014 it grew again, to 5.19, and in 2016 it reached 5.40. So far this year, it’s running at 5.32, which is two runs higher than it was when they started playing ODI cricket back in the early 70s. Then, in 2013, the overall batting strike rate rose up above 80 for the first time. And then it shot forward in another leap in 2014, to 83.30. Since then it’s crept higher still, to 86.9 in 2015. Midway through 2017, it’s running at 85.73 for the year. Ten years ago the figure was 77.43, and 10 years before that it was 72.81. Imagine all this on a graph, and you’ll see the rising line take a sharp upward tick in the last few years.
The evolution of batting is coming on in a rush. For years, it has moved in fits and starts, advanced by the radical acts of individuals whose successful innovations would be widely adopted. Whether that was Fuller Pilch (ask your great, great, great, great grandfathers), who first had the idea of coming out to meet the ball at its pitch, or WG Grace, who taught everyone how to play both forward and back, Ranjitsinhji, who opened up the leg side, or, years later, Doug Marillier with his scoop-shot and Kevin Pietersen with his switch-hit. These days everyone is at it. Constrained for years by the orthodoxies of correct technique, the idea that there is a right and a wrong way to play, batsmen are free now, and have even been forced by necessity to explore all the possibilities. They’ve untapped the latent potential of a sport in which you can hit through 360 degrees.
It’s not just that batsmen have more shots now, or hit more fours and sixes, but that they’re more intent on scoring off every ball. T20, when each ball counts as 0.83% of the total available to the team, has taught the value of every single delivery, each too precious to waste by blocking or waving through. A ball that passes by the bat without being played at now seems like a surprising event in itself. The bowlers, then, are under more pressure than ever before. And their own arsenal is starting to look a little thin. A couple of their key weapons, the bouncer, say, or the doosra, have been legislated against. Others – the wide yorker, or the slow short ball – were solved soon after they were introduced. They’re being outgunned.
The Sisyphean futility of bowling was never more apparent than in the final overs of India’s innings at Edgbaston last Sunday, when Yuvraj Singh, Virat Kohli and Hardik Pandya unleashed a storm of such intensity, such great vengeance, such furious anger, that Pakistan were broken like a ship on the rocks. They hit 117 in the last 10 overs, and 72 in the last four. Mohammad Amir left the field with cramp, moments later Wahab Riaz went off too, with an injured ankle. Amid the tatters of their attack, there were no servants or concubines to call on, only poor left-arm spinner Imad Wasim, who had the unenviable job of bowling the last over of the innings. He was hit for three sixes in a row, and in the end the over cost 23 runs, reasonably cheap at modern prices.
This is an extract taken from The Spin, the Guardian’s weekly cricket email. To subscribe, just visit this page and follow the instructions.
Sheikh Mohammed’s Godolphin operation lost its racing manager for the second time in three years on Tuesday when John Ferguson quit, having apparently lost the trust of one of its key trainers. Ferguson, a 25-year veteran in the Sheikh’s employ who has also been was also serving as chief executive, felt he could not stay on after it emerged that he was being bypassed in the chain of command by Saeed bin Suroor, who has instead been seeking his instructions directly from the Sheikh.
Bin Suroor used a pre-Derby interview with the Racing Post to make undisguised criticisms of Ferguson’s regime, with particular reference to how it had impacted the Dubaian’s ability to do his job. The trainer complained about being instructed to use the jockey James Doyle for the first part of last year and about the quality of two-year-olds he had been sent this year and the way in which they were delivered to him, which he blamed for the fact that he has yet to have a single juvenile runner this year.
Perhaps most damagingly of all, Bin Suroor harked back to the time Simon Crisford managed Godolphin, saying “everything was top class” at that time and that he was now trying to rebuild his training operation to get back to that level. Crisford was Godolphin’s racing manager from its creation in the mid-1990s until 2014, when he chose to step down a year after the organisation was engulfed by the steroids scandal involving the trainer Mahmood al-Zarooni, who had been recommended by Crisford to the Sheikh. Crisford has since set up as an independent trainer in Newmarket.
Ferguson, who became Godolphin’s chief executive in December 2015 after holding a variety of senior roles, decided his position had become “untenable” as a result of Bin Suroor’s pronouncements.
“In times such as these, what matters is the future and my stepping down will allow everyone to draw a line under things and move forward,” he added.
“All the staff at Godolphin are wonderful people who work so hard for the greater good and I want to thank each and every one. His Highness Sheikh Mohammed has given me so much over the years: trust, opportunity, amazing experiences and, perhaps most importantly, his kindness and counsel. For all these things I thank him with all my heart.”
Joe Osborne, managing director of Godolphin in Ireland and a key figure in setting up a branch of the operation in China, will now serve as interim chief executive of Godolphin’s global operation and is well placed to keep the job long term. Based at Kildangan Stud, Osborne is another longstanding employee of the Sheikh and the son of Michael Osborne, credited by the Sheikh with establishing the Dubai World Cup as a major international race.
“I’ve known Joe a long number of years,” said Jim Bolger, who trained Dawn Approach to win the 2000 Guineas for Godolphin. “He’s a thorough gentleman, very familiar with all aspects of thoroughbred breeding and racing.”
Bolger said Osborne is “more than capable” of handling the new role which has suddenly dropped into his lap. “He’s very efficient and what you see is what you get. It’s a big job but he’s got square shoulders.”
An early job for Osborne will be establishing a working relationship with Bin Suroor, who will require assurance that he is getting the same quality of stock as Charlie Appleby, Godolphin’s other trainer in Newmarket, whose assistant is Ferguson’s son, James. “This year we are behind by miles in regard to what we received for two-year-olds,” Bin Suroor told the Post. “I’ve never seen anything like it. They need plenty of time, and a lot of them will not run this year.
“It is a disaster. Normally the two-year-olds come here ... at the end of October, or early November. This year some came in January, some in February, some in May. They are very, very backward. I can’t train them, have no chance to run them. The system is not quite great this year. And two-year-olds are the future of any yard.”
Bin Suroor is yet to have a two-year-old runner in Britain this year, while Appleby has had eight winners from 13 runners in that age group. Bin Suroor also referred to the fact that his stable, which he described as “the main Godolphin stable”, had won just a single Group One race outside Dubai in three years. Appleby, meanwhile, won one in France last month and had the second and third in Friday’s Coronation Cup at Epsom.
“Now Sheikh Mohammed makes the decisions at Stanley House, nobody else,” Bin Suroor said. “I like things this way. Last year it didn’t suit me at all. Everything was top class in past times, from the work-riders to the people in the office. Now I’m trying to build that up again for the future. The last three years without Simon Crisford has not been the same, has not been easy.
“It is very good that now the yard is a happy place again – look at the results so far this season. Now I am very positive about the future.”
Southampton have reported Liverpool to the Premier League for allegedly making an illegal approach to Virgil van Dijk.
The south-coast club were furious to see stories on Monday that suggested Liverpool were in the driving seat to sign the defender this summer, in the face of interest from other leading clubs – namely Chelsea and Manchester City.
They argue that there is no way the stories could have been run unless Liverpool had spoken to Van Dijk and, thereby, put themselves in breach of Premier League rules over “tapping up”. Several of the stories contained the line that Van Dijk wanted to move to Anfield because of Jürgen Klopp’s involvement in his recruitment – which Southampton suggest adds up to an illegal approach. It is understood that the Dutchman’s preference is to move to Anfield.
Southampton have made it clear to the Premier League they have received no official approach from Liverpool for Van Dijk and, more generally, they have stressed the player has five years to run on his contract, meaning they are in a strong position regarding where he does play.
Liverpool are reportedly willing to pay a world-record sum for a defender – expected to be around £60m – to break Southampton’s resistance and they are also prepared to match City’s offer to Van Dijk of a contract worth around £200,000 a week. Van Dijk would become Liverpool’s record signing and highest-paid player should the deal go ahead. They declined to comment on Southampton’s accusations.
The league has written to Southampton and Liverpool to ask for their version of events. Liverpool have spent £96m on five Southampton players since the summer of 2014. In that transfer window they took Adam Lallana (£25m), Dejan Lovren (£20m) and Rickie Lambert (£4.5m). Nathaniel Clyne (£12.5m) and Sadio Mané (£34m) followed in the summers of 2015 and 2016 respectively.
Southampton’s position with their manager, Claude Puel, remains delicate and complicated given that he has all but left the club and they are actively pursuing a successor. Yet Saints will not confirm his departure until they have lined up the new man, who would have to represent an upgrade.
Puel, who arrived in June of last year, led Saints to the EFL Cup final, which they lost to Manchester United, and an eighth-placed finish in the league. But his style of football has frequently been derided as turgid, the team have struggled for goals and when the French manager was booed by the St Mary’s crowd on the final day of the season against Stoke City, the writing was on the wall.
Puel sat down with the board for an end-of-season review, which did not go well, and there have since been no messages of support for him from the hierarchy. He is away on holiday and has emerged as a target for the French club St-Étienne.
Southampton accept that Puel will be entitled to a pay-off on the final two years of his contract and they want a manager who is receptive to promoting players from the academy and with a vision for attractive, passing football.
There was something familiar about Gianluigi Buffon hoisting the Serie A trophy aloft after the game against Crotone at the end of May. Now, when had we last seen that? Ah, yes, in 2016. Oh, in 2015 as well. 2014? Yep, very much so. 2013 and 2012? Of course.
Juventus have racked up six consecutive Serie A titles. In those six seasons they have picked up nearly 200 points more than Internazionale. Their dominance has been spectacular.
It is very much the same story in Germany, where Bayern Munich have won the Bundesliga five years in a row since Borussia Dortmund secured the double in 2012. In France, Paris St-Germain have won four of the past five league titles.
Where is the fun in that. True, England and Spain have had a slightly better spread of teams who have won the league and the main cup (six different teams over the past six years in England and three in Spain) but the dominance of a few clubs means that, at least in Italy and Germany, we pretty much know in August who is going to win the league.
So why do we still care? Why do we still watch? We asked our writers how the dominance of a few teams is affecting their league and whether there are signs of fans turning off their TVs or not going to the stadiums.
After Juventus won a record-breaking sixth consecutive Scudetto, it’s fair to say that things are getting repetitive at the top of Serie A. The problem is that they have pushed the bar so high.
Back in 2011-12 Juve claimed their first title in this sequence with 84 points. Roma and Napoli exceeded that number this season, and yet neither has looked close to dislodging the Bianconeri.
The standard of the league is decidedly uneven. Juventus have re-established themselves as one of the best teams on the planet, and to some extent have dragged the chasing pack up with them. Napoli play some of the most entertaining football in Europe, and acquitted themselves better against Real Madrid in the Champions League this season than the 6-2 aggregate defeat suggested. Roma, too, have improved.
But there is a significant gap between those teams and the next tier. Lazio and Atalanta – the latter especially impressive for their development of homegrown talent – were compelling, but neither truly threatened the top three. The Milan clubs seem to be trapped in permanent disarray – albeit both are expected to spend big under new Chinese owners this summer. Fiorentina remain frustratingly flaky.
And as you drift into the bottom half of the table, so talent levels fall steeply. Hardly surprising when you consider that 13 teams posted total revenues below €68m on their 2015-16 accounts.
Overall, it is a mixed picture. Juventus’s European exploits have restored some prestige to Serie A, but also highlight how far others have fallen behind. Calls for the division to be reduced back to 18 teams are growing louder but the Italian Football Federation’s president, Carlo Tavecchio, called them “pure utopia”.
Has the league’s TV deal suffered? Serie A’s TV deal works out at around €1.13bn per year. Predictability may have harmed the league’s marketability but Juventus’s strong performances in Europe are also a counterbalance. Half-empty stadiums, the poor performance of the Milan clubs and a struggling national economy are more tangible concerns. PB
The accusation is as relentlessly repetitive as it is tiresome, not to mention a little baffling. Who chants for a league rather than a team? And why get so wound up about it? Why does it occupy people so much, to the extent that any reference to Spain, however innocuous, is guaranteed to immediately get a least one “pub league” or similarly dismissive comment in reply? The accusation is flawed, too, but that doesn’t mean that it is entirely false.
Spanish football does have more than two clubs: Atlético Madrid won the title three years ago and have reached two of the past four Champions League finals. That underlines the fact that if Spain is a two-horse race – and there’s an element of that, Madrid and Barcelona having won all bar one of the past 10 titles – it is not because the rest are a bunch of donkeys. Sevilla, Athletic Bilbao, Celta Vigo and Villarreal have in recent years reached semi-finals or beyond in Europe, which Spanish football has dominated. Celta, 13th in La Liga, were one dreadful miss away from eliminating Manchester United and taking yet another Spanish team to yet another final in this season’s Europa League.
Meanwhile, this season has not lacked surprises. Madrid dropped points against Eibar and Las Palmas. Barcelona lost the title against Deportivo, Celta and Málaga. For much of the year, Sevilla looked as if they might challenge for the title. Teams did compete with Madrid, the champions, who needed goals in the last 10 minutes in a quarter of their games. It wasn’t a stroll – and if their “B Team” kept winning in the final weeks, just look at how good those reserves are. Few doubt that Madrid or Barcelona would win the Premier League too; they don’t just dominate domestically, they dominate Europe in this super club era.
And yet Sevilla fell away, were knocked out of the Champions League by Leicester (whom they had overrun in the last-16 first leg), and it is true that by the end of the domestic season it was a familiar duo competing on the final day, as they had been all season, and there were few real shifts: the same top four, same next three and same bottom three all year. It is also true that at the bottom some of the teams could not really compete (although Madid needed a last-minute winner to defeat relegated Sporting Gijón, for example), and there simply is not the money that other leagues have – even if that is improving a little.
It is not Scotland in the sun but there are problems, even if the last couple of years have seen them mitigated a little, not as bad as it was six or seven seasons ago. Spain’s “other” clubs cannot compete economically and are a long way off Premier League teams in that regard. Another thing: fans are treated horribly in Spain, with kick-off times decided late and dictated entirely by TV (whose coverage is poor) and subject to change, with supporters criminalised and utterly voiceless.
Madrid’s and Barcelona’s enormity does eclipse everyone else and however brilliant they are – and they are brilliant – that can be discouraging. It is impossible to imagine it ending, too. But, then, everyone thought that the season that Atlético ended up as champions – a colossal, almost miraculous success that was rightly celebrated but might have hidden a deeper, troubling reality.
Has the league’s TV deal suffered? The new TV deal, at last managed centrally and negotiated collectively, as enshrined in law, was designed to increase the amount raised and redistribute the money. The plan was to help to reduce the huge inequalities in the league, although Madrid and Barcelona will still take far higher amounts than the rest under a new formula that calculates earnings based on league position, historical position, “social base” and audience. Barcelona and Madrid will expect to make around €140m this year, while teams at the bottom can expect closer to €42m – a huge leap from figures that were close to €15m as recently as last season. Every single game is televised live, with matches spread right across the weekend, starting on Friday night and finishing on Monday night. In between those, the slots are Saturday at 1pm, 4.15pm, 6.30pm, and 8.45pm, and Sunday at 12, 4.15pm, 6.30pm and 8.45pm. In total, the deal is worth an estimated €1,573,809m (€1,424,035 once Mediapro has taken its commission), €930m from domestic, €643m from international. SL
There are different ways of being predictable, and following what everyone thought was a refreshing intervention by Leicester City last season the Premier League’s big six clubs have quickly closed ranks to keep the major prizes between themselves. Six is quite a high number of course, and not many thought at the start of the season that Arsenal and Manchester United would be the ones missing out on top-four places, or that Pep Guardiola and Manchester City would end empty-handed. The same six into four situation will pertain next season too, and anyone who feels English football is always the same old story is advised to pick their 2018 top four in August and see how their guesswork looks nine months later.
England must be doing something right if clubs of the stature of Manchester United cannot always get their own way, and half a dozen potential title candidates is a lot healthier than the situation we used to have when the top four was set in stone and only Arsenal or Chelsea would take it in turns to challenge United’s dominance. Yet though this has been a reasonably lively and absorbing contest at the top of the table the big six are not the whole story.
Beneath the top six this season are Everton, seemingly stuck in a permanent no man’s land between the achievers and those with relegation concerns, followed by a long gap and then Southampton in eighth place with 46 points. To put that in perspective, 46 points is less than half of what Chelsea accrued and only five points more than Swansea and Crystal Palace managed after seasons haunted by fears of dropping into the Championship. Although entertainment might by sparkling in the upper echelon, the league as a whole cannot be considered healthy if two-thirds of it has no real purpose except ensuring survival.
Has the league’s TV deal suffered? No. The Premier League’s present TV deal is worth a monster £5.136bn over three years. Money is pouring into English football, and owners are no longer flaky types seeking self-promotion but investors who know how to turn a profit. The English top flight is divided into haves and have-nots, certainly, but remains watchable through being unpredictable at both ends. It is no easy task to pick a winner, and all the clubs near the bottom have the capacity to do what Crystal Palace did at Chelsea or what Hull did to Liverpool. Upsets occur in most leagues, but foreign players in this country frequently express surprise at the amount of fight in smaller sides who refuse to lie down. PW
That Bayern Munich have just sealed a fifth successive Bundesliga title – and by a margin of 15 points despite looking under-par for much of the campaign – is undoubtedly a concern. It’s only the second time that German football’s behemoth has managed such a run. The truth is, though, that Bayern’s dominance is partly a result of competitiveness, with Borussia Dortmund’s successive title wins in 2011 and 2012 almost provoking them to become their best-ever.
The other part of the equation is the club adopting a more internationalist strategy. Despite the image of Bayern’s approach being to take away their competitors’ best players, and signings such as Robert Lewandowski and Mats Hummels accentuating that feeling, they have been more adventurous in the transfer market in recent years, buoyed by profits from the Champions League and the Allianz Arena, which they now fully own.
Bayern’s dominance does drive international interest to the Bundesliga, and discovering the full picture often keeps people glued. Even if the title race was a non-event this year, there was drama throughout the rest of the table, in terms of the European places and at the bottom. On the season’s final day, almost half of the teams still had something to play for. The success of Europe-bound Freiburg, and the struggles of giants such as Hamburg, show it’s not always about money correlating to success.
Attendances are reassuringly stable – this season’s slight dip should be wiped out in 2017-18 with modest Darmstadt and Ingolstadt relegated and replaced by the better-supported Stuttgart and Hannover.
Has the league’s TV deal suffered? In terms of television rights, the Bundesliga has never been healthier, netting €1.16bn a year after a new four-year deal was thrashed out last summer. Sky, which shows 93% of live top-flight matches (Eurosport takes care of Friday nights), signed a new pact with the league at €876m per annum, almost double the previous figure of €486m. AB
Back in August it looked like the same old Ligue 1. PSG, despite changing their manager and losing Zlatan Ibrahimovic, were going to win a fifth league title in a row and probably a third domestic treble in a row too. Only a few weeks before, this great Paris side were crowned champions with a record 96 points and a 31-point gap on second-placed Lyon. Predictability had hit French football as in the nineties with Marseille and the noughties with Lyon.
Then, Monaco had a freak season where they exceeded all expectations but deserved to win their first league title in 17 years. Nice pushed PSG all the way for second place and for the first time the top three teams finished the campaign with 78 points (for Nice) or more (87 for PSG and 95 for Monaco).
Marseille have started their American revolution since the takeover of Frank McCourt and will invest up to €200m in the summer to compete for the title. Lyon, thanks to some investment from China, will also be ready to splash some cash, especially if they lose their two best players Alexandre Lacazette and Corentin Tolisso, which is looking likely.
Bordeaux are going in the right direction under their bright manager, Jocelyn Gourvennec. It will be fascinating to see Lille’s progress under Marcelo Bielsa next season, and Sérgio Conceição has worked wonders at Nantes since taking over in December.
Overall, PSG have been the perfect driving force for Ligue 1, with the other historic clubs trying to catch them up. The Parisians are still the richest and most powerful but Monaco showed this season that winning Ligue 1 is not a given any more.
Has the league’s TV deal suffered? A little bit. Ligue 1’s TV deal is worth €800m per year until 2020. The dominance of PSG dented the appeal for the league somewhat but Ligue 1 is hoping to increase this amount as Monaco, Nice, Lyon and Marseille are building strong teams to compete with the Parisian club. JL
From David Beckham’s mohican to Roberto Baggio’s ponytail, haircuts can define a footballer. So eight-year-old Mili Hernandez put thought into it before going to the hairdresser. “When my hair starts to grow I put it short because I’ve always had short hair,” she told WOWT 6 News. “I didn’t like my hair long.”
It was a decision that would get her and her team, Omaha’s Azzuri Cachorros, in trouble. Mili, who is good enough to play for the Under-11s, had helped the team to the final of the Springfield Soccer Club tournament. But four hours before kick-off on Sunday, the Azzuri Cachorros were disqualified after someone complained there was a boy on the team.
“I was mad. I never had that problem before. She’s been playing so long in different tournaments,” her father, Gerardo, told the Washington Post. “I don’t want no problems with nobody, but that wasn’t the right way to treat people. Why they want to tell my girl looks like a boy?”
The Springfield Soccer Association said that a misprint in the team’s roster identified Hernandez as a boy in “violation of state and tournament rules”, although the Post says another form listed her correctly as a girl. When Gerardo took Mili – along with ID showing she is a girl – to the tournament he claims the officials “didn’t even want to take it”. Mili was understandably upset. “Just because I look like a boy doesn’t mean I am a boy,” she said. “They don’t have a reason to kick the whole club out.”
There was some consolation for Mili after World Cup winners Mia Hamm and Abby Wambach tweeted their support. Hamm invited her to a training camp and Wambach, known for her forthright manner, saw her as a kindred spirit. “Mili, don’t EVER let anyone tell you that you aren’t perfect just as you are.i won championships with short hair,” Wambach wrote.
Mili, don't EVER let anyone tell you that you aren't perfect just as you are.i won championships with short hair https://t.co/WlfL3EIPic
Borussia Dortmund have appointed Peter Bosz as their new head coach.
The 53-year-old, who led Ajax to the Europa League final in his sole season in charge of the Amsterdam club, has signed a two-year deal to succeed Thomas Tuchel, who left the Bundesliga club last week.
Bosz was under contract at the Amsterdam Arena until 2019, so Dortmund have had to agree a compensation package to secure his services.
“These talks convinced me that this ought to be the next step for me,” Bosz said at a press conference on Tuesday, revealing he had spoken with Dortmund chief executive Hans-Joachim Watzke and the club’s sporting director Michael Zorc for around three hours. “I got a good feeling. It was a respectful discussion. I am convinced that we can work very well together.”
Watzke added: “We had a very, very good feeling about Bosz from the outset, the feeling that something can really grow together here.”
Reports in Holland claimed Bosz fell out with officials at Ajax in much the same way Tuchel supposedly did at Dortmund. It was reported he did not see eye to eye with some of the technical staff already at the club when he arrived last summer, such as former Arsenal striker Dennis Bergkamp.
Asked about the alleged disagreement, Bosz said he would “only look forwards” before adding: “What I can say is that I had a great time at Ajax.”
Ajax confirmed on their official website that an agreement had been reached with Dortmund, with the general manager, Edwin van der Sar, describing it as a “good deal”. The former Manchester United goalkeeper said: “I have mixed feelings about this move. When we brought Peter to Ajax last summer it was not the intention that the partnership would end after one year.
“We have had a great season, especially in the Europa League. As with our players, the coach also attracts the attention of clubs from Europe’s top leagues.”
Bosz guided an exciting young Ajax side to their first European final in 21 years, where they were beaten by Manchester United, but missed out on the Eredivisie title by a point to Feyenoord and ended the season without silverware.
The former Holland midfielder’s only previous coaching job outside his home country was a brief stint in charge of Israeli side Maccabi Tel Aviv before he took over at Ajax.
Dortmund finished third in the Bundesliga last season to qualify for the Champions League, and also won the German Cup.
This week will bring the launch of the Racecourse Association’s Showcase & Awards for 2017, designed to highlight the good things achieved by Britain’s racecourses while encouraging all tracks to learn from their rivals and copy their successes. I was on the panel of judges for the first time last year and have signed up to do it again.
I was struck by the effort made by some courses to impress the judges, with pages and pages of well thought-out submissions, and it certainly seemed in some cases that that reflected the effort made by the track to impress its customers and give them a memorable experience. I learned a lot that would otherwise have sailed below my radar and was especially taken with Pontefract’s ‘Art Of Racing’ raceday and by this charitable effort by staff at Cheltenham racecourse.
The awards have been going in their present form since 2011 and now appear to have caught the attention of most tracks and racecourse groups, with the result that the Showcase event was highly commended at the European Association Awards in Brussels early this year. Yes, I realise that having awards for awards nights is a bit circular. No, I didn’t get an invite to that one...
The great hope about Showcase is that it encourages racecourses to keep improving and to keep learning from what others are doing. The entries are not secret but are sent out to all other racecourses, in the hope that best practice standards can be quickly adopted elsewhere. I gather staff at one major track have a full day set aside to pore over the entries submitted by others in case there’s a good idea that can usefully be pinched.
The England & Wales Cricket Board is apparently among the other sporting bodies whose interest has been piqued by the Showcase system and they are now in regular contact with the Racecourse Association, so you may see a similar approach being adopted in county cricket.
Anyway, let me know about your own racecourse experiences through the comments section below, today or on any other day when you have a view that you want to get across. Which tracks do well, in your view, and which need to do better?
Yarmouth plays host to today’s nap, Albert Boy (3.20), an even-money shot for a middle-distance handicap. Having been rated 71 in the middle of last year, he dropped all the way to 55, a mark he has been exploiting this spring, with two wins from his last three starts. I have the impression that he struck for home rather a long way out on a testing surface on the only occasion he was beaten last month.
Anyway, he gets to run today from the same mark as when winning an apprentice race by five lengths just eight days ago. He comes from the Scott Dixon yard that seems to be doing well just now.
Knight Destroyer (5.30) is another popular pick, being just 5-4 for the last at Chepstow. This Jonjo O’Neill three-year-old took a big step forward when second on his handicap debut here last month, his first outing since being gelded in September. He ran on well but too late that day after a brief bit of traffic trouble and hopefully will get a clearer run in this smaller field on softer ground.
Balancing out these two obvious ones is Hitman (4.10), who appears friendless at 33-1 for a mile handicap at Wetherby. He’s only 3lb higher than when winning a Newbury handicap for William Muir last summer and, although that was followed by a couple of lifeless efforts, it doesn’t require a great deal of imagination to see him returning to his early form of last year, now that he’s had a break, been gelded and joined a new trainer in Rebecca Bastiman, who’s had a couple of recent winners.
Chepstow 2.00 So Hi Society 2.30 Pick A Little 3.00 Tis Wonderful 3.30 Englishman 4.00 Miss Inga Sock 4.30 Hawridge Flyer 5.00 Lexington Law 5.30 Knight Destroyer (nb)
Wetherby 2.10 Dontgiveuponbob 2.40 Rampant Lion 3.10 Casaclare 3.40 Miss Ranger 4.10 Hitman 4.40 Merlin 5.10 War Of Succession 5.40 Saint Thomas
Yarmouth 2.20 Immortal Romance 2.50 Addeybb 3.20 Albert Boy (nap) 3.50 Street Art 4.20 Thaqaffa 4.50 Break The Silence 5.20 Envisaging
Fontwell 5.50 Dites Rien 6.20 Black Corton 6.50 Tempestatefloresco 7.20 Highbury High 7.50 Blue Rhythm 8.20 Day Of Roses 8.50 Represented
Southwell 6.05 Code Of Law 6.35 HonkyTonktennessee 7.05 Monbeg Legend 7.35 I’ll Be Your Clown 8.05 Miss Maiden Over 8.35 Ashoka 9.05 Tell It To Me
Sead Kolasinac, the Bosnia-Herzegovina defender, will join Arsenal on 1 July after his contract at Schalke expires, the Premier League club have announced.
The 23-year-old free transfer is Arsène Wenger’s first summer signing as the manager looks to add to his squad and make Arsenal title contenders. Kolasinac came through the youth ranks at Schalke and made more than 100 appearances for the Bundesliga club.
The arrival of the Germany-born left-back casts doubt on the future of Kieran Gibbs, who has yet to negotiate fresh terms at the Emirates. Kolasinac had reportedly been attracting the interest of Chelsea and Everton but it is understood a move to north London had been on the cards for some time.
Arsenal will participate in the Europa League next season having missed out on Champions League qualification for the first time in 20 seasons. Kolasinac has experience of the lesser competition and is likely to be competing against Nacho Monreal for a place in the side. Wenger, as well as the chief executive, Ivan Gazidis, and majority shareholder, Stan Kroenke, are looking for a run at the title next season.
Arsenal, who have been linked with a big-money move for the Monaco forward Kylian Mbappé, announced Kolasinac had signed a long-term contract. Schalke’s statement said he had signed until 2022. “Sead Kolasinac will complete a move to Arsenal FC upon the expiry of his contract on 30th June 2017,” the German club added. “The reigning FA Cup winners, who finished fifth in the 2016-17 Premier League campaign, have agreed a deal with the 23-year-old left-back which runs until 2022.”
Ask the batsman dropped on 0 who makes a ton how to succeed in cricket and he will tell you it’s not how many breaks you get that matters, it’s what you do with them. Many county cricket fans were less than pleased to see Hampshire restored to Division One having finished 2016 in one of the relegation slots, but a second win in a row has left them sitting atop the table like a fat cuckoo. Captain George Bailey may have scored just two off his own bat but veterans Jimmy Adams (166) and Sean Ervine (203) – that’s runs not ages – amassed 367 for the fourth wicket and, once the No9 Keith Barker, the only partner centurion Jonathan Trott could find in the first innings, was dismissed for 63, Warwickshire’s fragile confidence collapsed and they were seen off by an innings, having followed on. Leg spinner Mason Crane did absolutely nothing to dampen down enthusiasm for advancing his burgeoning talent with match figures of 57-17-154-5, while Ian Bell’s team languish rock bottom, winless and looking for that break to get their season started.
Yorkshire leapfrogged Lancashire into fourth place with a three-day demolition of the old enemy in a match in which the disparity in seam bowling resources proved critical. While Steven Croft had only Ryan McLaren (396) with more than 72 career first class wickets to his name, Gary Ballance could whistle up Ryan Sidebottom (745), Tim Bresnan (499) and Jack Brooks (364). But it was the least experienced of his quartet to whom the captain had most cause to be grateful, Ben Coad backing up his six first-innings wickets with a couple more in the second dig to give him 31 Division One wickets at 14 this season, the best among England-qualified bowlers by a distance. With England slated to play seven Test matches in two months from 6 July, don’t be surprised if “Highway” gets a gig for his country before his breakthrough season is done.
Flogging results out of Lord’s roads (they should just call the pitch the A41a) is hard enough with a full complement of overs but, when weather intervenes, it can be a thankless task. Once Lewis Gregory had notched a maiden century and Dean Elgar continued his extended warm-up for the Test series with a second hundred of the season, Middlesex knew that a par score would surely be enough to make a draw the likely conclusion – and so it proved after their last four wickets added 110 runs. Though Somerset’s young skipper, Tom Abell, will be relieved to have batted almost three hours for a season’s best 71 not out, two of last season’s “three who could win it” going into 2016’s last day, are stuck in sixth and seventh places, both looking for the first win of the campaign.
Nottinghamshire’s charge towards Division One stalled with a draw against lowly Derbyshire at Trent Bridge. With four second-innings wickets down and the lead just 51, Chris Read will be thankful for even for that, his own 74 not out critical in setting the visitors a target of 216 which proved just 26 too many when the rain came for the last time, Derbyshire big favourites with five wickets and eight overs in hand. Missing James Pattinson and Stuart Broad (36 wickets at 14.7 and 281 runs at 46.8 in 2017), Notts lacked firepower and Derbyshire can count themselves unfortunate not to have registered their first red ball win for two years.
With second place Kent sitting out this round of fixtures, third-placed Worcestershire had the chance to jump into first with a win over Sussex, a club in turmoil after Luke Wright’s shock resignation from the captaincy on the eve of the match. As can sometimes be the case, the change at the top, with Chris Nash taking over the reins, galvanised the side, his charges racking up 579 for 8 declared in good time, with Luke Wells adding 155 to the 258 he made when he last took guard at Hove. When the visitors cruised to 215 without loss in reply approaching lunch on Day Three, the draw looked likely, but the admirable Daryl Mitchell fell for 121, the Sussex seamers scented blood, and, just 30 overs later, Mitchell found himself back in the middle, following on, 267 behind. Despite missing experienced new ball man Steve Magoffin, Nash rotated his five medium pacers who, on a pitch now offering assistance, restricted Worcestershire’s highest second innings stand to just 79 runs and wrapped up the win early in the afternoon session on Day Four. As auditions go, it wasn’t a bad one from Chris Nash.
Durham, whose place in Division One for this season was forfeited to current leaders Hampshire due to their financial problems, fought like cornered tigers to get themselves back into their match with Northamptonshire, only to lose off the penultimate ball, in the rain, with the visitors eight down. After conceding a first innings deficit of 172, a maiden century for Cameron Steel (who sounds more like a Pakistani team than an American born player) supported by 54 in nearly three hours from (who else?) Paul Collingwood, clawed Durham back into the game. But Colly’s opposite number, Alex Wakely, had other ideas and a captain’s knock of 84 laid the foundations for the last gasp win. Durham still seek that first victory of the season (and the points that will turn their total positive), but when it does eventually arrive, glasses will be raised well beyond the north east corner of England.
• This is an article from the The 99.94 Cricket Blog• Follow Gary Naylor on Twitter
For someone who stands 5ft 2in, I hit the ball pretty far. During my professional golf career, I was one of the longest hitters on tour. I averaged 270 yards off the tee, and I consistently outdrove competitors by 30 to 40 yards. When I played in pro-ams (mostly with men) I’d be told I “hit it far for a girl.” To which I would retort, “Yeah? Well, you hit it short for a dude.”
But the truth is, I did hit the golf ball far for a woman, and particularly for someone my size. Recently, PGA and Champions Tour veteran Fred Funk came under fire for comments about the length of modern courses. “I feel like I should be on the ladies tour right now,” he said. “I didn’t mean that in a derogatory sense, not at all. Just because Annika [Sorenstam) outdrove me [in a recent skins game], I’m a little bitter.” The USA Today columnist Christine Brennan called Funk’s comments sexist. In her article, she called into question Funk’s views of women, “This was a man who sounded quite comfortable delivering a snide remark about women’s golf.”
This sparked an interesting debate about the difference between men’s and women’s golf, and in particular, about female and male athletes. It’s tough to dispute that, on average, men are stronger and faster than women. Look no further than stats for driving distances among PGA and LPGA players. The women on tour swing their drivers on average at about 95mph. The men? 113 mph.
Does this make men better golfers? No. And recognizing the differences in our bodies should not take away from acknowledging what makes male and female athletes great.
Let’s look at scoring average on each tour: currently LPGA player So Yeon Ryu has averaged 69.21 this season, compared to Jordan Spieth’s 69.41 on the PGA. Those figures are far from an anomaly – averages across both tours are comparable. And there is a case that women could be considered superior: Dana Finkelstein on the LPGA is ranked No1 in driving accuracy, hitting 88.2% of fairways this season. Her counterpart on the PGA, Steve Stricker, hits 72.85%. In addition, Lexi Thompson leads the LPGA with an average of 79.8% of greens in regulation this season, compared to Dustin Johnson, who is No1 on the PGA tour with 72.6%. Looking at these stats alone, women are more accurate than men. What they lack in power, they make up for in finesse.
The former US Open champion Geoff Ogilvy, said as much last year. “I especially like to see [women] hit shots with hybrids. It’s a joke how talented they are with those clubs. I’m actually prepared to believe that Lydia Ko is better than the vast majority of male pros from, say, 200 yards out. She is ridiculously good. In fact, I’d go as far as to say that the top women players consistently hit closer to where they are aiming than do the top guys,” Ogilvy wrote in an article for Golf Australia.
So while Brennan found offense with Funk’s comments, I only saw him pointing out something that most of us know: men in professional golf hit the ball further. It’s not sexist, but a fact. Acknowledging what makes men and women distinct – for example, male players’ huge drives or female players’ unerring accuracy – should only highlight the very things that make professional athletes so extraordinary.
What we should take offense to is when people think that women are not elite athletes simply because their bodies do not perform in the same way as those of their male counterparts. And what most critics of women’s sports should take into account is that any weekend warrior, male or female, could never get close to matching the performance of a professional athlete of any gender.
As a sportswriter, I hate differentiating between male and female athletes. I feared that by writing this article I would only be playing into the internalized sexism I’ve been raised to believe about women in sports growing up: that women aren’t as good of athletes as men. But my case is that female athletes are just as exceptional as their male counterparts, but are skilled in ways that men are not. Accepting this and embracing this provides a foundation for women to continue to flourish in their sports.
By the time the Lions return to Eden Park for the first Test against New Zealand on 24 June they will either be roaring or whimpering. The next five games – all inside 14 days – really will be a test of manhood and there is not a single local who anticipates the touring team returning unbeaten from their bruising provincial mini-tour.
If a talented, but occasionally flaky Blues side are not defeated in the opening midweek fixture on Wednesday, things will only get tougher. The Crusaders are currently heading the Super Rugby standings, the Highlanders are tucked in behind, a pumped-up Maori XV can make the All Blacks appear demure and the Chiefs play the most eye-catching rugby on Earth. Pick the easy option out of that lot.
The Lions are also battling on two wearily familiar fronts: gelling unfamiliar players and combinations over an impossibly short period in front of rugby’s least-forgiving audience. Most New Zealanders are charming to visitors but this is not immediately obvious in the rugby sections of the newspapers. As Warren Gatland is already being reminded, beating the world champions in their backyard requires rare resilience on and off the field.
Even with the tour still in its infancy, the news wires are awash with barbs. Gatland has been derided as the wrong man for the Lions job, with his team dismissed as less enthusiastic than a chicken heading towards KFC and incapable of finding their own hotel, let alone the formula for a victorious series. Knockabout insults, maybe, but an instinctive lack of respect for northern hemisphere rugby oozes from many media orifices.
The only way to chip away at such ingrained perceptions is on the pitch. And even if the Lions do somehow win all their next five games, howls of criticism of their style, the refereeing or some other perceived slight will inevitably follow. If a highly rated New Zealand team lose, particularly at home, the notion of the other side having outplayed them comes well down the post-match list.
This may well have underpinned Gatland’s irritation this week when the unflattering phrase “Warrenball” was predictably wheeled out in a press conference, albeit by a British reporter. This is a man who has coached winning teams all over the world – with Wasps, Waikato and Wales, among others – yet is still widely portrayed as a coach who merely picks a crash-ball centre and invites 14 other blokes to pile in behind him. “I don’t know what Warrenball means,” protested his assistant, Rob Howley, who has coached alongside Gatland for much of the past decade. “Have we played that over the last few years? I’m not too sure.”
Rugby’s eternal truth is that every professional coach adopts the approach he believes will win him the most games with the players available to him at the time. Which is why the Lions management are now talking repeatedly of the need to stretch opposition defences, as opposed to simply seeking contact or relying on forward power. Attacking scrums and lineouts largely depend on the opposition dropping the ball or kicking it out of play. If nimble, quick-thinking Kiwi sides do neither, where does that leave the Lions’ hopes of set-piece dominance? “Teams are smart, they know how to counteract physicality alone,” confirmed the ever-thoughtful Leicester prop Dan Cole. “You can’t just have one way of playing against those guys.”
Hence Howley’s recurring use of the phrase “rugby chaos” to describe the high-intensity training sessions the squad are taking to sharpen their reaction skills for what lies ahead. “That’s rugby in the southern hemisphere,” stressed Howley. “The majority of the game now is from kick returns and turnovers and it’s the ability to react in those situations, not get left behind and be ahead of the game. The challenge for us is for players to play the game they see. That’s the message we keep giving them. You have to get numbers around the ball sometimes but, ultimately, it’s about playing with some talent and playing some intelligent rugby.”
Yet in almost the same breath Howley was conceding it would be unwise of the Lions to reveal their full hand until the Test series starts: “We need to hold back on certain elements and make sure we put our players under the same fatigue and chaos in training that the All Blacks will do.”
The odd provincial defeat would not, he suggested, be the end of the world: “If we lose one or two games but get a good picture of how the All Blacks will play, we’ll be a better side for those experiences.”
Perhaps, even more importantly, the Lions need to display a greater lust for life than in their opening game in Whangarei. Training has certainly been getting feisty – according to Howley it has become “pretty heated” this week – and even an experienced Test Lion such as Johnny Sexton will need to shape up to feature against the All Blacks. “I suppose the word is inconsistent,” said Howley. “I spoke to Johnny and he admitted it.
“It was tough for him but he’s a world-class 10 and he’ll bounce back. He’s a very intelligent rugby player.”
Blues: M Collins; M Duffie, G Moala, SB Williams, R Ioane; S Perofeta, A Pulu; O Tu’ungafasi, J Parsons (capt), C Faumuina, G Cowley-Tuioti, Scrafton, A Ioane, B Gibson, S Luatua.
Replacements: H Faiva, H Hodgman, S Mafileo, P Tuipulotu, K Pryor, S Nock, I West, TJ Faiane.
British & Irish Lions: L Halfpenny; J Nowell, J Payne, R Henshaw, E Daly; D Biggar, R Webb; J McGrath, K Owens (capt), D Cole, C Lawes, M Itoje, J Haskell, J Tipuric, CJ Stander.
Replacements: R Best, J Marler, K Sinckler, Henderson, O’Mahony, Laidlaw, J Sexton, L Williams.
Referee: P Gaüzère (France).
Manchester United really, really want to sign Álvaro Morata, because he’s dead good. At a mere £50m he’s also – and this is important, because after all United have debt to service – cheaper than their other potential line-leading frontman recruits, Everton’s £100m-rated (by Everton) Romelu Lukaku and Torino’s Andrea Belotti (who has just scored more than 20 goals in a season for the first time, so that’ll be £87m please), though Alexandre Lacazette could emerge as an alternative. Real Madrid’s Spanish bench-warmer could end up England-bound as part of a complicated player/cash/other-stuff exchange deal also involving gifted gloveman David de Gea, though Morata himself says he’s perfectly happy in Madrid for the time being. As for Lacazette, he yesterday issued perhaps the football world’s most feeble come-and-get-me plea to English clubs: “The Premier League is interesting,” he enthused. “That does not mean I will go, and that does not mean I will refuse to go.”
While a Morata-De Gea swaperoo remains a possibility United have to identify potential replacements for their current goalkeeper. According to the Mail, “they have the likes of Manchester City’s Joe Hart on a list of names that also includes some from abroad with Gianluigi Donnarumma of Milan and Inter’s Samir Handanovic also discussed”. The same newspaper believes that United are interested in Renato Sanches, who doesn’t appear to be as good as Bayern Munich thought he was going to be but about whom José Mourinho enthusiastically gushed last summer, while his fellow Allianz Arena flop Douglas Costa is a £30m target for Tottenham and Juventus.
Morata might be happier to flee the Bernabéu should Real complete a mooted record-smashing €135m deal for another striker, Monaco’s Kylian Mbappé, which would effectively relegate him to third choice behind the young Frenchman and the older Frenchman Karim Benzema and would also frustrate Arsenal, who were just about ready to demonstrate their financial might with a meaty €100m bid. Arsène Wenger and Ivan Gazidis, Arsenal’s chief executive, set tongues a-wagging when they were spotted at Nice airport – just an hour’s drive away from Monaco, and that’s if you take the scenic coastal route – on Monday.
Virgil van Dijk’s future dominates today’s papers, with the Sun reporting that “Jürgen Klopp is convinced he will beat Manchester City and Chelsea” to the Dutchman, the Mirror announcing that it was the German’s “charisma and enthusiasm” that ensured “Liverpool have won their heavyweight scrap”, and even this newspaper joining in, declaring the Reds have been “informed by the Southampton defender that Anfield is his preferred destination”. Now all Liverpool need to do is actually table a bid for him, and for it to be accepted. Which given that Southampton aren’t terribly keen on selling would appear to be a significant obstacle, though the offer of Mamadou Sakho in part-exchange might help. According to the Independent, Van Dijk and the Roma winger Mohamed Salah will be the first two bricks in a large transfer wall for Liverpool, who by the time they’re finished hope to have signed seven new players. Happily the report contains the word “bumper”.
Celtic may say that Moussa Dembélé is not for sale, or at least not yet, but Milan want to test their resolve. According to the Daily Record, “Milan bosses held an informal meeting with Dembélé’s representatives a month ago, but are now looking to arrange a follow-up discussion.” Should that meeting go well, all the Italian giants would then have to do is actually table a bid for him, and for it to be accepted, though the same paper believes Chelsea and Borussia Dortmund are the Frenchman’s most likely destinations.
Talking of Chelsea, Eden Hazard’s ankle injury might convince them to seek another creative attacking genius, even though the Belgian won’t be out all that long and would have been on holiday for much of that time anyway. Real’s James Rodríguez, almost certain to move somewhere this summer, is apparently an option, while Ángel Di María’s name might also crop up.
On his way out of Stamford Bridge meanwhile is the juvenile goal machine Tammy Abraham, who seems set to take his shooting boots to Newcastle, after Rafael Benítez convinced both the player and his parent club that they could look after him better than rival bidders Brighton. Benítez, says the Telegraph, will now turn his attention to sorting out the opposite end of his team, with a move for the recently-released Manchester City shot-stopper Willy Caballero looking likely.
Frederick Gaudreau sure is doing his best to earn his own locker with the Nashville Predators with a Stanley Cup final debut for the ages.
And with Pekka Rinne turning in his best performance in this series, the Predators are going back to Pittsburgh having tied up the defending champs at 2-2, turning this into a best-of-three sprint to the Stanley Cup.
Gaudreau, an undrafted free agent playing just his sixth postseason game, scored the go-ahead goal 3:45 into the second period, and Rinne made 23 often-spectacular saves as the Predators beat the Penguins 4-1 on Monday night.
The 24-year-old rookie only has a chair in the Predators’ locker room, but he now is the second player in NHL history to score his first three career goals in a Stanley Cup final, joining Johnny Harms with the 1944 Blackhawks.
Calle Jarnkrok, Viktor Arvidsson and Filip Forsberg also scored for Nashville, which improved to 9-1 at home.
Sidney Crosby scored his first goal in the series after not getting a shot on goal in Game 3. The goal was his first in the Stanley Cup final since 4 June 2009 – a span of 12 games. The goal came after he was held without a shot for only the fifth time in his career in the playoffs.
The Penguins now have lost two straight for the second time this postseason. They also lost Games 5 and 6 against Washington. Goalie Matt Murray lost consecutive games for the first time in his young career.
Game 5 is Thursday night in Pittsburgh.
Nashville tapped country singer Dierks Bentley as the latest to sing the national anthem, while country singer Jason Aldean waved the towel to rev up the crowd. Former NBA star and TV commentator Charles Barkley also was on hand, accepting NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman’s invitation to watch in person.
Rain most of Monday kept the crowd outside from reaching the more than 50,000 who turned Saturday night for the first Stanley Cup Final game in Tennessee. Enough people turned out to fill up Broadway for three blocks with three giant TV screens, even with Nashville opening up a downtown amphitheater for fans to watch.
After the anthem, two catfish and one stuffed penguin hit the ice despite Nashville coach Peter Laviolette’s video plea earlier Monday asking fans not to throw anything.
Craig Smith, who had two of Nashville’s first six shots, ricocheted a puck off Murray’s pads that Jarnkrok tapped in at 14:51 to start the fans yelling. Pittsburgh lost a challenge for goalie interference.
Then Crosby, held without a shot for only the fifth time in the postseason in his career, tied it up for Pittsburgh on a breakaway. He skated in on Rinne, holding the puck before scoring behind the goalie’s leg just 66 seconds later for his eighth goal and 24th point of the playoffs.
Rinne kept it tied in the early minutes of the second first with a stop of Jake Guentzel before a big save on Chris Kunitz on a breakaway.
Play was underway when the horn sounded, and officials reviewed a play and ruled Gaudreau’s wraparound attempt slid the puck just over the line before Murray stopped it. Referee Dan O’Halloran announced it as a goal, giving Nashville a 2-1 lead 3:45 into the second.
Crosby had another breakaway nearly midway through the period, and Rinne stopped him not once, but twice. Then the goalie slid to his right stopping Guentzel with an assist from Nashville defenseman Roman Josi.
Arvidsson made it a 3-1 Nashville lead with his first goal since the end of the first round. James Neal started the play, getting the puck to captain Mike Fisher who fed the puck up to Arvidsson while falling to the ice. Arvidsson beat Murray under his glove, putting the puck just inside the right post at 13:08.
Forsberg sealed the win with an empty-netter with 3:23 left.
Fisher, scoreless until the Final, now has four points. He got his fourth on his 37th birthday. ... With his goal, Crosby now has 161 career playoff points and moved past Mike Bossy, Gordie Howe, Al MacInnis and Bobby Smith for 20th all-time by himself. ... The Penguins now are 13-3 after a playoff loss under coach Mike Sullivan, and Murray is 7-1 in playoff games started after a loss.
All blame for Tom Hawkins’ AFL suspension for a jumper punch should rest with the player and nobody else, says match review panel (MRP) member and former Hawkins team-mate Jimmy Bartel.
The MRP has been batting off claims of inconsistency in the AFL’s crackdown on jumper punches since Geelong forward Hawkins became the first high-profile player to cop a one-match ban. The Geelong forward has since accepted the suspension for punching Adelaide’s Matt Crouch.
Bartel, a retired Cats great, said his premiership team-mate Hawkins put himself in the position to be suspended having collected Crouch high. “People need someone to blame and every Monday afternoon, they blame the MRP and they get their frustration out,” Bartel told RSN radio on Tuesday.
“You could maybe blame your players for putting themselves up in front of the MRP. He (Hawkins) just needs to get it out of his game. He’s such a valuable part of the Geelong side. But in the situation (the MRP reviewed) yesterday, he pretty much asserted himself on the Crouch boy ... but he got him high.”
Hawkins’ punch came less than a fortnight after the AFL flagged its intention to crack down on jumper punching after Richmond captain Trent Cotchin controversially escaped with a fine for his blow to Docker Lachie Neale’s face. But in a subsequent game, Sydney’s Zak Jones was also fined rather than banned for a punch to the upper body of Hawthorn’s Luke Breust.
“People keep using the Zak Jones example,” Bartel said. “The difference between Zak Jones and Tom Hawkins: Zak Jones hit Luke Breust in the body, Hawkins hit Crouch in the neck, chin, wherever you want to put it. It’s still above the shoulders, still high.”
The Cats opted not to challenge Hawkins’ ban despite Chris Scott telling Fox Sports he believed the contact amounted to a push to the throat rather than a punch. The Cats have the bye this weekend with Hawkins to miss the round 13 clash against West Coast at Domain Stadium.
The former mixed martial arts fighter Jonathan Paul Koppenhaver, known more commonly as War Machine, has been sentenced to life in prison after he kidnapped, sexually assaulted and beat his ex-girlfriend in 2014.
Koppenhaver was convicted by a Las Vegas jury in March of 29 felonies after he attacked Christy Mack and her male friend Corey Thomas. He had found Mack and Thomas together in her bedroom. At sentencing Mack told District Judge Elissa Cadish that she fears Koppenhaver will kill her if he is released. “I don’t know if my life will feel complete in 12 years or 30 years and neither do you, but I do know when he gets out he will kill me,” Mack said. She suffered a lacerated liver, broken rib and lost two teeth during the assault.
Koppenhaver, 35, will be eligible for parole when he is 71. “I should have killed myself by now. There’s no reason right now that I shouldn’t be in the dirt right now laying next to Aaron Hernandez. That’s 100% true,” Koppenhaver said in his statement. Hernandez, the former NFL star, killed himself in prison in April while serving a life sentence for murder.
Koppenhaver said anxiety and depression were to blame for his behavior, but claims he has changed since finding God in prison. “Not a day goes by that I don’t seriously regret all those things that I did. I was a very, very lost, very empty person,” Koppenhaver added in his statement. “And to top it off, something’s not right with my head. Plain and simple. I’ve known that a long time and I’ve hated it. I’ve hated the way that I think. I’ve hated my impulses. Half the time, I don’t know why I do some the things I do. And some of the times I do things and I don’t even feel like I did them until it’s already done.”
Koppenhaver fought in 19 MMA fights, winning 14. He also worked as a pornographic actor.
Most of the British Cycling directors accused of covering up a report into claims of bullying within the GB team will be replaced in reforms set to be voted on at an extraordinary general meeting on 22 July.
The governing body has been under the spotlight since the spring of 2016 when the former GB track sprinter Jess Varnish made allegations about the former technical director Shane Sutton and claimed there was “a culture of fear” in the organisation. The independent panel investigating the affair is expected to produce its final report next week.
On top of the Varnish allegations the organisation has also been faced with the UK Anti-Doping investigation into claims of wrongdoing in the sport, and the reforms mean that at least two thirds of the directors who have been dealing with both issues will have departed.
The independent panel’s preliminary report, which was leaked in March, was scathing about how an internal investigation led by the British Cycling board member Alex Russell had been handled. The report, sent to the boards of British Cycling and UK Sport in December, accused Russell’s fellow directors of “sanitising” and even “reserving” her findings, which resulted in Sutton being found guilty of one relatively minor offence out of the nine with which he had been charged.
A Freedom of Information Act request by Press Association Sport then revealed that UK Sport also had “serious concerns” about the board’s treatment of Varnish’s complaint.
Sutton, who has always maintained his innocence, quit in April 2016, with the former chief executive Ian Drake leaving his post in January. Since then British Cycling has appointed a new chairman in Jonathan Browning, brought in Julie Harrington from the Football Association as chief executive, hired a new human resources executive and revamped its code of conduct.
But even more radical surgery is required if British Cycling is to comply with the sports minister Tracey Crouch’s new governance code. From November, any organisation seeking funding from Sport England or UK Sport must comply with the code, which is intended to raise leadership standards across sport.
Sport England has allocated £17m to British Cycling and UK Sport has said it will provide £26m for the GB Olympic and Paralympic teams’ preparations for Tokyo 2020, but both payments depend on code compliance.
With any major reform needing a vote from the 130,000 membership and the next annual general meeting not scheduled until November, British Cycling was forced to call the EGM. The new senior team have been travelling the country to sell the proposed reforms to its members.
The key changes are a reduction in the number of elected regional directors from six to four, permanent seats for elected representatives from Scotland and Wales, an increase in the number of openly recruited independents from three to four and the appointment of an independent chair. Harrington will also be added to bring the board up to 12 members.
It means the president, Bob Howden, who gave up his role of chairman in February, will lose his position on the board and Browning will have to reapply if he wants to continue as independent chairman, as he must go through an open recruitment process. It is understood the former motor industry executive is considering his options and will decide on what he wants to do after the EGM.
But the other major change is the introduction of a limit for directors of three three-year terms. This means six of the eight elected members on the current board must stand down, with only the Eastern region’s Dr George Gilbert and the Welsh representative, Nick Smith, being eligible to continue. Current independents, Russell and Marion Lauder, can also continue and are expected to do so.
Great Britain’s Land Rover BAR were dealt a severe blow in their attempt to reach the America’s Cup after a failure in their wing handed Team New Zealand the initiative in Bermuda.
Sir Ben Ainslie’s syndicate suffered damage to the wing in the opening race as they rounded the leeward gate, forcing them to retire from the opening race of the challenger semi-finals.
They were unable to complete the repairs to their boat in the available time and they forfeited the second race as a result to hand the New Zealanders – who chose to take on the British crew – a 2-0 lead in the first-to-five races play-offs.
Another two races take place on Tuesday and Ainslie is upbeat his team can bounce back, despite admitting his frustrations at their misfortune on Monday.
He said on his team’s YouTube channel: “It doesn’t get any worse for the team, we felt like we’d made some great improvements overnight, the speed was really good, really positive.
“It’s just such a shame for the whole team to have lost two key races that way. The positive was we felt like we’d improved the speed and the performance of the boat so we’ll come back fighting; it’s another day, the team still very much believe we’re in this and can make it happen.
“When your back is to the wall that’s when you’ve really got to dig deep and we’ve got the team to do that. We’ve all been in tough spots before and we’ve got the experience to know we can come through that. It’s not going to be easy, for sure, but we’ll keep going until the end.”
The first crew in each of the two semi-finals to win five races progresses to the challenger final and whoever wins that takes on the defending champions, Team USA, for the America’s Cup itself.
June is the cruellest month – or at least, it is for Australians at this rather damp ICC Champions Trophy. On a drizzly, doom-laden day at The Oval Australia’s attempt to chase down a modest Bangladesh total was interrupted by heavy evening rain four overs short of a completed game. Maddeningly for Steve Smith, who blocked the final ball of the day before trudging off in exasperation, the Australians were 44 runs ahead at that stage on DLS calculations and strolling it before the skies closed in.
Cue three hours of hoofing bits of kit around the Oval dressing room, desperate to get back out for 20 minutes to prevent a wash-out. In the event a second no result after New Zealand at Edgbaston leaves Australia perilously placed. Bangladesh, who were outplayed here, could now sneak into the semi-finals by beating New Zealand should results fall their way. If England win in Cardiff on Tuesday, Eoin Morgan’s men will be through with a free shot at knocking Australia out in Birmingham.
As a lone, sodden cheerleading beefeater scampered through the evening puddles and a scattering of Bangladeshis cheered wildly at the return of the billowing covers, there were elements of farce to the proceedings. Had this game not been a day-nighter all would have been done and dusted by the time rain made it up the M4. On the other hand Australia probably would have lost to New Zealand in Birmingham, so their points tally is more or less par. But they were deprived here of a chance to boost their run rate by putting a tottering Bangladesh away, which could yet prove key.
And so the tournament goes to Cardiff for a potentially fun, adrenaline-laced encounter between England and New Zealand that is again threatened with the prospect of heavy rain. That game will mark a third of the way through a tournament that has fizzled and sputtered gamely without quite catching fire. Three of five matches staged have been affected by the weather, with a daunting forecast for the week ahead.
For all the discomfort at the intrusion into the International Cricket Council’s carefully planned extravaganza, this is not an uncommon experience in the first half of June. Damp early summers and bone-dry Septembers have become such a feature in recent years that there was, briefly, a move among schools to shift cricket a term back either side of the summer holidays. Four years ago in the last Champions Trophy seven of 15 matches played were affected by rain at exactly the same stage of the summer.
There is, of course, nothing to be done about this, although a useful tweak might be to introduce a little flexibility for drinks breaks and intervals. Four overs short of a full game in a match interrupted by people coming on with water bottles and the full whack for lunch: at times cricket’s enjoyably rigid routines can look unintentionally comic.
At The Oval there was at least a reversal of the batting dominance to date, a function of tight, assertive Australian pace bowling mixed with a supine performance from Bangladesh’s lower order. In keeping with a lop-sided tournament this was only ever going one way from the moment Bangladesh were bullied batting first by Australia’s pace attack, the top order falling away steadily and the tail visibly quaking at the sight of Mitchell Starc bounding in to bowl his death-over toenail-crushers.
Starc hoovered up four wickets in nine balls at the end of his spell, three of his victims bowled while leaping away towards square-leg to reveal all three stumps, like a waiter whisking the cover from a particularly appetising evening meal. Starc can be a daunting prospect. But this was pretty abject.
As it had been for the tournament opener The Oval was alive with a powerful Bangladeshi support on Monday afternoon. Mashrafe Mortaza won the toss and chose to bat, signal for boisterous cheers at every show of batting aggression on a muggy morning during which Australia’s pace attack confirmed its standing as the most powerful in this tournament, zinging the ball past both edge and grille regularly on a fairly docile pitch.
Josh Hazelwood showed the zip and guile England’s openers will have to contend with this winter. Pat Cummins bowled with speed and fire, touching 91mph. Tamim Iqbal kept on swinging, carving at anything with any width and manning the quietly crumbing deck all the way to a pugnacious 95 from 114 balls, before becoming the opening act in Starc’s bravura triple-wicket maiden at the end.
Chasing 182, Australia set off briskly. On 36 David Warner became the third fastest man to 4,000 ODI runs, behind only Viv Richards and Hashim Amla. Then came the rain and an unsatisfying slow death, the floodlights gleaming eerily off the slick covered square, stands long empty. There is still plenty of time for this tournament to catch fire even if, right now, it all looks a little soggy.
The prospect of Qatar hosting the 2022 World Cup has been plunged into the most serious doubt after the country’s neighbours broke off diplomatic relations and blockaded its borders. In a culmination of hostilities simmering for years and accusations that Qatar is a major funder of terrorist organisations, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain have closed the only land route into the tiny peninsula and refused to allow use of their sea ports or airspace.
The multibillion-dollar preparations to host the 2022 tournament, which involve building nine stadiums and huge infrastructure, is put into perspective by local reports that Qataris are so worried about the blockade that they are stocking up on food. The border with Saudi Arabia is the only road route into the country; Qatar relies on sea ports for its materials and the blockade of airspace is a huge logistical handicap to the country and its flagship airline, Qatar Airways.
The “supreme committee” responsible for building the 2022 World Cup facilities did not issue a public statement but a source acknowledged that the seriousness of the crisis is greater than any of the formidable challenges Qatar has faced since winning the vote in 2010 from Fifa’s now discredited executive committee. The tournament has been switched to the winter to avoid searing summer temperatures, a series of investigations has been held into strongly denied corruption allegations and there has been worldwide criticism of the country’s treatment of its migrant construction workers.
Saudi Arabia said in a statement that it had broken off physical and diplomatic contact due to Qatar’s “embrace of various terrorist and sectarian groups aimed at destabilising the region”. Resentment has been growing for years, principally over Qatar’s support for the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt, an organisation which the UAE vehemently opposes, but Saudi Arabia also accused Qatar of supporting al-Qaida and Islamic State, extremist groups which have carried out atrocities in the Middle East and Europe.
Qatar has always denied the accusations that it funds terrorist groups and its foreign ministry said in a statement responding to the blockade: “The state of Qatar has been subjected to a campaign of lies that have reached the point of complete fabrication. It reveals a hidden plan to undermine the state of Qatar.”
Qatar’s ruling family and emir, Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, have always intended that hosting an event as globally captivating as the World Cup will dramatically boost the tiny but wealthy country’s profile, and that such “soft power” could help be a bulwark against interference from its neighbours. Now, although there are five years to go, the entire project is facing major doubt.
The English Football Association did not comment on the crisis but the German FA (DFB) president, Reinhard Grindel, said he would discuss it with the German government and Uefa. Grindel promised to look for a “political solution” but said: “The football community worldwide should agree that … major tournaments should not be played in countries that actively support terror.”
Fifa, now sponsored by Qatar Airways, declined to comment except to say: “Fifa is in regular contact with the Qatar 2022 local organising committee and the supreme committee for delivery & legacy handling matters relating to the 2022 Fifa World Cup.”
Hampshire lead the County Championship by 14 points and showed their clinical quality by taking Warwickshire’s last eight wickets for 65 to win by an innings and 94 runs. The contrast with the side whose relegation led to their reprieve last season is stark and unavoidable: Durham are bottom of Division Two on minus 21 points after their fourth defeat in five.
When, early on, Ian Bell and Jonathan Trott, having shared 93 for the third wicket, fell in consecutive overs, Warwickshire were left at the mercy of the weather. The rain came but not early enough or for long enough to save them – they were eight down and off the field for only minutes.
Kyle Abbott, a signing exceeding even the loftiest expectations, finished with four for 32, Mason Crane claimed two wickets, including Trott’s, while Sean Ervine, the double-centurion and architect of the victory in his record-breaking stand of 367 with Jimmy Adams, took the final two with his new-fangled off-spin.
That result meant Warwickshire slipped below Somerset, who played out a typically dour Lord’s draw with Middlesex, to the foot of Division One.
For Somerset, after Lewis Gregory dismissed Tom Helm and Tim Murtagh to bowl Middlesex out for 358, a first-innings deficit of 85, there was a welcome return to form for their young captain, Tom Abell. He looked in fine touch for his first half-century of the season and was unbeaten on 71 (although the last few did come off the bowling of John Simpson and Nick Gubbins, so might need expunging from the record books) when hands were finally shaken.
Middlesex, who took 10 points to Somerset’s 11, won the title having drawn their first six matches in 2016 and their first four games this time have been stalemates, too. Scheduling quirks mean they have played two fewer games than Hampshire but already they are 37 points adrift and 14, rather than 16, Championship games means making up lost ground will be tough. They await news on the fitness of Adam Voges, who the captain, James Franklin, expects to be missing for some weeks. Swelling meant a scan on his groin injury, which saw him retire hurt on Sunday, had to be delayed until Tuesday
The theory that Division Two has already splintered into two halves suffered a blow as Worcestershire lost their unbeaten record in a thrashing (by an innings and seven runs) at Sussex, and only rain saved Nottinghamshire from defeat against Derbyshire. The rain arrived at Trent Bridge with the visitors – who have not won a Championship match since July 2015 – five down, and only 26 from victory.
Northamptonshire pulled off a remarkable two-wicket win with a ball to spare at Durham. Paul Coughlin, leading the attack in the absence of six seamers either injured or on international duty, bowled unchanged for 20 overs in Northants’ chase of 205. Defending three off the final over, he took two wickets to complete his maiden 10-wicket haul but the ninth-wicket pair scrambled home for a bye to seal the win. Alex Wakely had earlier made 84 to lead an impressive chase.
It does not get easier for Durham. Their next assignment is on Thursday at second-placed Kent, who welcome the Pakistan leg-spinner Yasir Shah for a four-game stint, including visits to their promotion rivals Nottinghamshire and Worcestershire.
By August 2008 the word had already got out among Premier League scouts that a 22-year-old midfielder from the Ivory Coast, recently signed up by FC Twente after an eye‑catching season on loan at Roda JC, had something about him. It would be instructive to see how he fared at a higher level and a Champions League qualifier for Steve McClaren’s side against Arsenal provided an early chance to find out just how quickly Cheick Tioté was learning. The sight of him sticking to Robin van Persie like glue during Twente’s home leg, subduing the striker into irrelevance with an insistent performance that at times cared little for the boundaries of the law, lingered in more than a few minds and memories would be jolted firmly enough in due course.
Tioté eventually joined Newcastle, who had been attracted by his tenacity and undeterred by an inconsistency in possession that led some suitors to waver, in 2010 and would find himself working for McClaren again five years later. Both had seen better days than a 2015-16 season that reflected appallingly on the Tyneside club but, while McClaren ended up being sacked and scarcely mourned, Tioté was one of the few who rode out a turbulent interlude with his standing among supporters relatively unimpaired.
Given the revolving door at St James’ Park over the past decade, that says plenty. But there had always been good reason to enjoy the presence of Tioté, a wholehearted and proactive performer who played at the kind of intensity fans appreciate even when things are not going well. “I don’t like to make a lot of noise,” he said a few months after his arrival but he had non-verbal ways of making his point. It helped that, in only his 19th appearance for the club – having already picked up eight yellow cards and one red – he produced the kind of flourish that, in the blink of an eye, moulds a cult hero. The left-footed 25-yard volley that pegged Arsenal, opponents he always warmed towards, back to an improbable 4-4 draw was perfect in both execution and timing. The moment was etched instantly in Premier League folklore, never mind that of his club; a bolt from the blue that had never seemed likely and would rarely come close to happening again.
It would be his only goal for Newcastle; the tally of bookings would reach 14 by the end of his first season and discipline was never something he fully mastered. But that was how Tioté operated; there would never be any compromising when a ball was there to be won. “You take that side of the game out of Cheick and you don’t get the same player,” his team-mate James Perch said after a costly red card against Sunderland in October 2012. A Tyne-Wear derby is never an occasion for mistakes, but if anyone could be forgiven such an error it was Tiote. The idea of leaving anything on the pitch was anathema.
Tioté’s was not simply a tale of unchannelled aggression. Between 2011 and 2013 he and Yohan Cabaye formed one of the league’s best midfield partnerships – an efficient blend of vision, vigour and tactical intelligence whose apex came in a 3-0 win against Manchester United in January 2012. This was Tioté’s peak but, while Cabaye would move on, he stayed at Newcastle despite intermittent talk of interest from Champions League clubs – in particular Arsenal, a move he would certainly have welcomed. As Newcastle’s fortunes ebbed, his own form and fortune did too, injuries dogging his final two seasons and ensuring that, by the time he moved to Beijing Enterprises in February, disappointment about his departure was more sentimental than directed towards its impact on a revitalised team’s promotion campaign.
Joining a club at the highest level may have eluded him but Tioté appeared twice in Ivory Coast’s Africa Cup of Nations-winning campaign of 2015. That success meant everything; little had come easy during his early days in football, starting out at the semi‑professional club FC Bibo in his home city of Yamoussoukro and finessing his qualities without the aid of proper boots until the age of 15.
“That’s what made me who I am today,” he said of an upbringing that guaranteed nothing. Tioté, though, would turn into a player who guaranteed every ounce of perspiration he had as soon as he stepped on to a pitch. The frayed edges were there, but for a time he was one of the best; it is a tragedy that football, and the world he inhabited beyond it, should be mourning him now.
Eoin Morgan was not the first great Irishman to suggest that “imitation is the sincerest form of flattery that mediocrity can pay to greatness” but he may be in agreement with Oscar Wilde.
For Morgan at least acknowledges that his England side, transformed since the calamitous World Cup of 2015, has now acquired many of the qualities of the Kiwi side that humbled them in Wellington, New Zealand, in February 2015. On that dismal day for English cricket Morgan’s team were beaten by eight wickets with 37.4 overs to spare. The New Zealanders required 124 runs for victory and were none too circumspect in their response. Brendon McCullum hit 77 from 25 balls.
Morgan was reminded of that contest “for want of a better word” while the rain was falling at Cardiff. “It was sort of men against boys,” he said before adding to no one’s surprise, “but I think it’s completely different now, two years down the line. We’ve got a completely new team pretty much [in fact five of those who endured that match at Wellington could play in Cardiff on Tuesday]. And hopefully we are moving forward.”
No doubt England have progressed and their template was very much in the image of New Zealand’s 2015 World Cup campaign. McCullum and Morgan are good friends and England’s captain, being an intelligent man, is bound to have picked the brains of the former Kiwi captain.
Morgan was not too keen to emphasise how England have learnt from New Zealand. To adopt the pupil/teacher pose just before a vital clash between the two countries might not be appropriate. But he acknowledged the impact of that 2015 World Cup.
“If you look at the top four teams that got to the semi-final stage in the World Cup, they all seemed to score regular totals over 350. So I think they’ve contributed to the change as a whole.
“The way New Zealand went about playing their cricket was probably closer to the way we go about it now. We have very similar characteristics and values as a side and it’s probably the easiest relate to them out of those four teams that made the later stages. I think the dominant factor with New Zealand was that they had that crucial confidence within the group at the time, whereas we didn’t have it.”
Morgan can claim with justification that there is that confidence within his squad now. This helps to explain a reluctance to tinker with his team – or at least his batsmen. Faith in Jason Roy remains and he will open the batting.
That yearning for consistency also enhanced the chances of Steven Finn getting the call-up once Chris Woakes’ side strain had been diagnosed.
Morgan said Finn was the straightforward choice, backing up consistency of selection and the trust they have shown in their players recently. “We’ve tried to go like for like [when choosing replacements] as often as we can.
“But when we can’t we go for a guy we can throw the ball to at any stage in order to try to make an impact on the game. And Finny is one of those guys. I’d have no hesitation in playing him tomorrow if we felt it was the right thing to do.
“It all depends on the wicket,” Morgan said, before remembering to mention the quality of pace bowling already in his squad.
However, he did not mention Finn’s chilling experience in that Wellington match more than two years ago. Sometimes bowling figures lie but, however one stares at 2-0-49-0, they do not look good. The one-word explanation is McCullum. At least on Tuesday the Kiwis’ World Cup captain will be in some commentary box, where he can cause little damage.
The make-up of the bowling attack will occupy Morgan’s mind on Tuesday morning. Mark Wood, Liam Plunkett, Ben Stokes – recovering fast from his knee problems – and Moeen Ali are bound to play. Then England must pick two from Adil Rashid, Jake Ball, David Willey and Finn.
A sweaty pitch favours retaining two pace bowlers; so, too, do the short, straight boundaries in Cardiff. However, there is also the notion that the Kiwis might not play Rashid as well as some of the Asian nations. And the leg‑spinner, though left out against Bangladesh, has been a trusted performer in ODIs.
New Zealand were probably robbed of victory when the rain fell at Edgbaston in their match against Australia. They retain the no-holds barred approach that McCullum insisted on two years ago, have three hostile pacemen in Tim Southee, Adam Milne and Trent Boult and some dangerous strikers of the ball as well as Kane Williamson, the Kiwi Joe Root – or is it the other way round?
Martin Guptill hits a long ball at the top of the order for such a mild-mannered man and a former opening batsman for Derbyshire. Like Morgan he did not wish to exaggerate the similarities between the two sides but he recognised that England “have a similar brand of batting to the way we’ve gone about our business over the last few years”.
He said: “So it’s probably going to be a pretty exciting game tomorrow and I think the fans are looking forward to it.”
There is indeed much to savour if the puddles disappear. An opening pair of Guptill and Luke Ronchi does not let many deliveries pass harmlessly by; or as our great Irishman (still not Morgan) once admitted they “can resist everything except temptation”.
Morgan reports Stokes to be pain-free and ‘nearly there’
England are bubbling with an optimism that defied the thick grey clouds and long white tarpaulins visible on arrival in Cardiff on Monday. Eoin Morgan, the captain, may have lost the services of Chris Woakes with a strained side but he is bullish about the advance of Ben Stokes, his totemic all-rounder with the dodgy left knee for a match against New Zealand where a win would secure a passage into the semi-finals.
“I think he’s very close to full fitness. He came through the other day [when England played Bangladesh at The Oval], bowling more overs [seven] than we intended. But I think we’re nearly there. He’s had no pain in five days now. So, if that continues, there’s a chance he may bowl 10 overs.”
Some of England’s players, including Stokes, were staying very close to the scene of the latest atrocity in London but Morgan is confident his men can deal with the climate of uncertainty and the nature of the security measures in place.
“Within our team there are no concerns. I think we sort of proved that we can cope in Leeds after what happened in Manchester [England played South Africa at Headingley immediately after the terrorist attack at the Manchester Arena]. Obviously the guys are chatting about it constantly because it’s not very far from where we stayed and a lot of us live nearby. So we’re always talking about it and making sure that everybody feels they can talk about it and not hide away from it.”
The make-up of England’s team is undecided, mostly because of the torrential rain that fell on Cardiff on Monday. Morgan has glimpsed the surface. “It looked like a reasonably good pitch yesterday [Sunday] but an extra 24 hours under the hot, sweaty cover might change things in the morning. There’s normally a lot of grass here, not necessarily green grass, but with quite a thatchy feel to the wicket. I’ll think about it for another 24 hours.”
Morgan will be thinking about his best bowling attack rather than his batsmen. He implied that Jason Roy, his out-of-form opener, will stay in the side for at least one more game. “Jason has obviously lacked runs but certainly everybody in the team, the squad and the backroom staff feel that a score is around the corner. So hopefully it is tomorrow.” And hopefully Roy is of the same mind as everyone else.
The choice of bowlers is dictated by various factors: there are two short straight boundaries to consider but perhaps more significant is the sweatiness of the pitch, which will be minutely examined this morning. The think-tank’s observations will decide whether England opt for two spinners by recalling Adil Rashid – surprisingly omitted from the first game against Bangladesh having played in 41 of England’s previous 44 ODIs.
Rashid might have been deflated by that decision but Morgan said: “Adil is quite relaxed about things. Everybody wants to play, all 15. It’s not easy leaving guys out sometimes. We select the man we think is the best chance of winning that particular game.” The prize for winning this game for England is unusually significant. Victory for Morgan’s side would guarantee them a semi-final berth.
Warren Gatland is demanding more physicality and intensity from his British and Irish Lions players but has dismissed claims he is a one-dimensional coach whose sides only play one way. Instead he has urged his reshuffled team to go out and be positive against the Blues on Wednesday under the captaincy of Scarlets’ hooker Ken Owens.
The Lions’ underwhelming display in their opening tour fixture in Whangarei has generated some unflattering local media coverage and Gatland is already sick and tired of the phrase ‘Warrenball’ being applied to his methods. He insists he merely encourages sides to play to their strengths and blames the former England attack coach Brian Smith for inventing the phrase.
“Look, a few years ago Brian Smith coined a phrase ‘Warrenball’, and I don’t know whether that was because he was jealous of how much success we had. We had a group of players who came through Wales at the time who ended up being pretty big physical players. The modern game of rugby is about getting across the gainline, trying to get front-foot ball and playing to space if that is possible.
“I think in a way it is an opportunity for people who want to be critical. We experienced that four years ago (in the 2013 series in Australia) when people decided to be critical and a lot of people got caught with their pants down afterwards, didn’t they?”
Far from relying on a simple crash ball approach on this tour, Gatland believes the Lions will have to vary their game if they want to win a series against the All Blacks for the first time since 1971.
“To match the All Blacks you have got to display a bit of X-factor. If that X-factor means an offload or doing something that is a little bit outside the box, the players are being encouraged to do that because that is what we are going to need to beat them. We don’t want to be prescribed and we don’t want to play by numbers.
“Hopefully, we can show that on Wednesday and the players can perform what they are being encouraged by the coaches to do. The message to the players is that we want to play positive rugby, we want to be able to move the ball and shift it and create chances. We know we didn’t play so well on Saturday and it gives us an opportunity to go out and against the Blues and be positive.”
Gatland was also interested to hear from his son Bryn that Saturday’s game against the Provincial Barbarians was more physical than a typical Super Rugby encounter. No one is suggestng the Blues, with eight current or former All Blacks in their ranks, will be a soft touch but the Lions management do want their forwards to make more of an impact at Eden Park. “We’ve got to be able to ramp that physicality up in the games leading up to the first Test,” confirmed Gatland. “These games will help us get to grips with the intensity of what New Zealand rugby brings.”
The Lions have opted for a completely fresh XV against the Blues, with Owens leading a team containing 11 new Lions, including the Irish centre pairing of Robbie Henshaw and Jared Payne and English wingers Elliot Daly and Jack Nowell.
Six of the eight forwards will be making their Lions bows, including James Haskell at 6 and Maro Itoje in the second-row. Pencilled in at inside centre for the Blues is Sonny Bill Williams, who is expected to play despite a slight knee problem, while the experienced Charlie Faumuina starts in the front row. Back-row forward Jerome Kaino (knee) and England’s current Argentina tourist, Piers Francis, are missing but a clutch of younger players will be hoping to use the occasion to further their reputations.
With over 40,000 tickets already sold, a near sell-out is anticipated, although head coach Tana Umaga is conscious of his team’s recent heavy schedule: “There’s no doubt it will be a challenging turnaround for us. In the last 30 days we have played four Super games in New Zealand, South Africa and Samoa and now the British and Irish Lions. But it is a special occasion and I hope the guys do themselves, their families and their club proud.”
Umaga’s last meeting with the Lions was in 2005 when he was involved in the fateful incident in the first Test in Christchurch that brought a premature end to Brian O’Driscoll’s tour. Memories of that episode have inevitably been rekindled this week but Umaga believes it is time to move on. “That was 12 years ago,” he said. “If people can’t put it behind them then I suppose they never will.”
Itoje, meanwhile, has spoken of his personal shock following the terror attack in his native London. “It’s tough,” admitted the Saracens lock. “These things are happening a bit too often for anyone’s liking. It’s a real dark and crass situation which we all wish doesn’t happen again. My heart and condolences go out to all those involved.
“These things are always more daunting when they happen on your doorstep, in your home city, the city you’ve grown up in. It is tough but in these kind of situations London and the whole of Britain show how resilient they are and how quickly we’ll bounce back.”
Blues: M Collins; M Duffie, G Moala, S B Williams or T J Faiane, R Ioane; S Perofeta, A Pulu; O Tu’ungafasi, J Parsons (capt), C Faumuina, G Cowley-Tuioti, Scrafton, A Ioane, B Gibson, S Luatua. Replacements: H Faiva, H Hodgman, S Mafileo, P Tuipulotu, K Pryor, S Nock, I West, TJ Faiane/M Nanai.
British & Irish Lions: L Halfpenny; J Nowell, J Payne, R Henshaw, E Daly; D Biggar, R Webb; J McGrath, K Owens (capt), D Cole, C Lawes, M Itoje, J Haskell, J Tipuric, C J Stander. Replacements: R Best, J Marler, K Sinckler, Henderson, O’Mahony, Laidlaw, J Sexton, L Williams.
There are two meetings on the Flat this afternoon and two more this evening, but the most valuable card of the day – and by some distance – is over the jumps at Newton Abbot, where there is £68,000 to play for against the £57,000 on offer at Leicester. 
The feature event at the west country track is a £20,000 handicap hurdle which had eight runners, ideal for each-way betting purposes, at the overnight stage. Unfortunately, Ashoka has been taken out this morning and each-way punters will now need to find one of the first two home. That promises to be a much more difficult task in a race where five of the runners are currently trading between 5-1 and 6-1, and there is a fair case to be made for the 14-1 outsider, Magie Du Ma. 
Cleni Wells, the bottom weight, is attracting money this morning and goes to post with every chance having finished a good second over course and distance six days ago. He runs off the same mark today, but slight preference is for Rossetti (3.10), who returned to winning form last time out and is just 3lb higher today. Neil Mulholland’s gelding, who started his jumping career in Jersey where his wins included the Channel Islands Champion Hurdle, rattled off a four-timer last summer after joining his current yard, culminating in a three-and-three-quarter length success from a mark of 134. That form gives him a leading chance racing off 135 today, and a quarter-mile step up in trip could also eke out a little more improvement. 
Deauville Dancer (4.45) should follow up his easy win a week ago in the two-mile handicap chase, while Alcala (2.40) may be refreshed by a month-and-a-half off and resume his progress over fences in the novice event on the same card. 
Showers are forecast at Ayr today ahead of the card at the track this evening which could have an effect on the going, but Fieldsman (8.25) is worth backing to get off the mark for David O’Mears in the seven-furlong handicap. This will be Fieldsman’s fourth run for his new yard, and the most promising of those by some way was his fourth place over today’s course and distance five days ago. That race was run in a decent time and the five-year-old is still 3lb below his winning mark in a better race than today’s at Newmarket last May. 
Ice Age (7.40) and Arsenio Lupin (8.40) should both go well at Windsor this evening, while Meteor Light (3.20) could be the answer to the best race of the day at Leicester. Ed Vaughan’s three-year-old was gelded over the winter and returned to win a maiden at Nottingham last month with something to spare. That was just Meteor Light’s second start, he has fared well in the draw with stall 14 and he can make the most of a perfectly fair opening mark of 80. 
Leicester: 2.20 Porchy Party 2.50 Bourbonisto 3.20 Meteor Light (nb) 3.50 Verity 4.20 Mesbaar 4.55 Present Tense 5.25 Taskeen 6.00 Magic Moments
Thirsk: 2.00 Mabo 2.30 Jedi Master 3.00 Judicious 3.30 Compton Park 4.00 Tadaawol 4.35 Gaval 5.05 Lyric Harmony 5.35 Navajo Thunder
Newton Abbot: 2.10 Fuhgeddaboudit 2.40 Alcala 3.10 Rossetti 3.40 Mahlers Star 4.10 Passmore 4.45 Deauville Dancer 5.15 Lake Chapala
Ayr: 5.55 Born To Be Alive 6.25 Love Oasis 6.55 Mo Henry 7.25 The McGregornator 7.55 SS Vega 8.25 Fieldsman (nap) 8.55 Buzz Boy
Windsor: 5.40 Choice Encounter 6.10 Madame Bounty 6.40 Steaming 7.10 West Drive 7.40 Ice Age 8.10 Open Wide 8.40 Arsenio Lupin
(all times pm, BST)
On Sunday, Jürgen Klopp gave a wildly optimistic interview to Liverpool’s own website. “We can really improve, that’s what I’m really looking forward to,” he trilled. “I’m really optimistic for our future, not because I’m crazy but only because I know what we have, I know what we will get, I know what we can get.” Journalists immediately got to work discovering what they can get, and the answer they came up with was: Lyon’s wildly coveted £60m-rated striker Alexandre Lacazette, whose future is once again up in the air after the team he was set to sign for, Atlético Madrid, were hit with a transfer ban. “Klopp has set his sights on signing a big-name striker this summer and Lacazette certainly fits the bill,” screech the Express, while less encouragingly the Lyon chairman, Jean-Michel Aulas, said “the decision to let Alexandre go is now under scrutiny” and that “I would prefer that he stays”.
Liverpool aren’t going to stop there, and are unwilling to meekly yield to Manchester City’s massive chequebook in the race for Southampton’s Virgil van Dijk: the Liverpool Echo reports that they are prepared to match any offer made by City or Chelsea – with bidding set to open at £50m – and that, more encouragingly still, they “believe money will not be the decisive factor and have been encouraged by the feedback received from Van Dijk’s representatives”.
Another rumour concerning Klopp’s side is all over the back pages of several papers this morning, who reflect widespread excitement about the impending conclusion to their pursuit of Roma’s Mohamed Salah, with all parties concerned on the verge of agreeing a £35m deal to take the Egyptian winger back to England. Another much-mooted move that could be imminently completed is that of Tottenham’s Kyle Walker to Manchester City, with the Star revealing that “Etihad chiefs are confident of completing the move once England’s games with Scotland and France have taken place”.
If only everything were so straightforward. For example, Eden Hazard’s weekend pronouncements over his future have been carried by the Sun under the banner “Staying: Hazard’s not sub-standard” while in the Star the headline of choice is: “Hazard hints he may join Gareth” and the Express goes for “I’m open to Real deal says Hazard”. So, in short, he is either staying or going.
Elsewhere there is plenty of news about transfers that are not going to happen. Celtic, for example, will not entertain any offers for Moussa Dembélé, at least unless they are eliminated from the Champions League in August’s qualifying round, whereupon he’s yours for £30m. Also, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is happy at Arsenal, Gareth Bale is even happier in Madrid, and Anthony Martial’s agent says “there is no reason for him to leave Manchester” unless “Ed Woodward tells me they want him to leave” which, just to clarify, he hasn’t.
What would have come of Swansea last season if they didn’t have the one-man goal-and-assist-machine Gylfi Sigurdsson among their otherwise rank ranks? It is a question with only the miserable of answers, but thankfully for the Swans it is only speculation. Less happily next season they could find out for sure, with Leicester first to dip their toes in the Icelandic waters by tabling an official enquiry. Sigurdsson, adds the Mail, is valued at £30m and also “wanted by Everton as Ronald Koeman looks to add more goals from his midfield”. Swansea will strengthen this summer, though, and have held talks with PSV Eindhoven over their £12m-rated Chilean defender Santiago Arias – also being monitored by Everton, West Ham and Tottenham – though according to the Star they may end up with Barnsley’s Andy Yiadom instead.
Everton’s pursuit of more goals from midfield might also be achieved by snaffling Leicester’s own Riyad Mahrez, though the player would prefer Arsenal or Chelsea to sign him please, while Koeman – linked over the weekend with a move to replace the outgoing Romelu Lukaku with Jamie Vardy – has also identified a goalkeeper who would come cheaper than Sunderland’s Jordan Pickford, in the shape of Gent’s Lovre Kalinic.
The Cavaliers put up a strong fight but still fell 132-113 in Game 2 of the NBA finals to the Golden State Warriors, a superteam who are starting to look – and this postseason literally are – unbeatable.
The Cavaliers played significantly better than they did in the first game of the series, but a triple-double from LeBron James, 20 forced turnovers and 15 steals still weren’t enough to topple the best team in decades. It was Golden State’s 14th consecutive win in the playoffs, besting the longest postseason win streak in league history.
After the game, James summarized how it must feel to face the Warriors in this sort of form. Asked what he needed after the game, he replied simply: “some food ... and some wine.”
Leading the Warriors’ effort – again – was Kevin Durant, with 33 points. He did it all. He made incredible plays off his own rebounds. He swatted away the ball from several defenders, including James. He even made a shot while falling to the ground.
“We can’t give up 23 points off our turnovers. Especially a championship team like that, they’re going to thrive off it,” Durant said. “We could play hard every possession, but can we play smart?”
Team-mate Steph Curry danced circles around his defenders with some nasty crossovers, and ignited the offense with 32 points in his triple-double performance. The crowd shot to its feet whenever Klay Thompson scored. The Splash Brother has been struggling in the postseason but slipped out of his slump, adding 22 points and 7 rebounds. JaVale McGee continued to be impactful, with a huge block and a massive dunk over Kevin Love after he came off the bench. Andre Iguodala also had a colossal block on Channing Frye that brought the crowd to its feet.
KD x JaVale on #NBAonABC!#NBAFinals pic.twitter.com/PAiXU5MoGy
Based on the first two games, the next NBA champion appears a done deal. Now it could just be a question of who will be finals MVP.
But it should be remembered that the Cavaliers were 2-0 down at this stage last year, and they didn’t take Sunday’s loss lying down. Indeed, they were just three points down going into halftime.
“It’s been a great run, but none of that matters unless we can finish the job,” said the Warriors’ head coach, Steve Kerr. “Heading to Cleveland we’re gonna have to be a lot smarter. If we play that game in Cleveland, we’re not winning.”
James carried the team on offense and defense, scoring 29 points and stealing the ball several times. He even joined Magic Johnson and Jerry West as the only players to reach 300 career assists in the finals. Kevin Love caught fire early, assisting James with 27 points and 7 rebounds. Kyrie Irving managed 19 points after being guarded heavily by Thompson.
The Warriors had a standout performance, but the loudest cheers at Oracle Arena went to Kerr. He returned to the bench to coach the Warriors after missing most of the postseason due to health issues. Each time the camera turned to him the crowd went wild, and they gave Kerr a standing ovation when the lineup was announced.
Another standing ovation for Steve Kerr. Everyone's very glad to see him back and healthy #NBAFinals2017 pic.twitter.com/zQeFBmO9Po
With the series heading to Cleveland for two games, the Cavs must hope they can improve again and level the series on home turf. But based on the evidence so far, the Warriors may be simply too good to beat.
Liverpool are close to agreeing a £35m deal for Roma’s Mohamed Salah, with reports suggesting the Egypt winger could finalise a move to Anfield this week.
Talks have been continuing between the parties for some time and Roma rejected an initial £28m bid from Liverpool a few days ago. However, Jürgen Klopp is determined to acquire Salah and, with the player also believed to be keen on the switch, it appears an agreement is close to being reached following an increased bid from the Merseysiders.
Should the transfer happen it would be a case of second time lucky for Liverpool, who wanted Salah in 2014 only to see him move to Chelsea instead from the Swiss club Basel. He struggled to make an impact at Stamford Bridge, however, and in 2015 moved to Italy, joining Fiorentina on loan before moving to Roma, also on loan, soon after.
That became a long-term move last August and Salah has subsequently flourished for the Giallorossi. In the 2016-17 Serie A season the 24-year-old scored 15 goals and assisted 13 others in 31 league appearances.
Klopp believes Salah can provide Liverpool with an injection of pace in their attacking front line, something that is all but absent when Sadio Mané is unavailable, as he was for the whole of January after travelling to Gabon to represent Senegal at the Africa Cup of Nations and then for the final six weeks or so of the campaign just finished after collecting a knee injury in the 3-1 victory over Everton on 1 April.
Such is Liverpool’s determination to acquire Salah that they are willing to make him the joint most-expensive signing in their history, following on from the £35m spent on purchasing Andy Carroll from Newcastle United in January 2011. Salah is expected to earn in the region of £90,000 a week at Anfield.
Liverpool have already signed one player in the close season – the England Under-20 striker Dominic Solanke, who will arrive on Merseyside on 1 July following the end of his contract with Chelsea – and, with the club having reached the Champions League qualifying stages, Klopp is determined to add to his resources between now and the first leg in August.
As well as targeting Salah, the German is also believed to be keen on acquiring Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain from Arsenal, Naby Keita from Red Bull Leipzig and the Southampton defender Virgil van Dijk.
Gareth Bale has insisted that he has no intention of leaving Real Madrid this summer amid speculation that Manchester United may attempt to sign the Wales international for a fee of more than £100m.
Bale was a second-half substitute in his home city of Cardiff as Real became the first side to retain the status as European champions since the Champions League era began with a comprehensive 4-1 win against Juventus on Saturday.
That victory ensured Bale became the first Welshman to win club football’s most prestigious tournament for the third time at the end of a season during which the 27-year-old has been plagued by injury.
Bale made only 19 league appearances for the club as they won a first La Liga title since 2011. Having attempted to prove his fitness for the final, Bale did not start against Juventus with the manager, Zinédine Zidane, opting instead for Isco. That has fuelled rumours that United could turn to Bale after cooling their approach for Antoine Griezmann after the Frenchman confirmed on Sunday that he would not be leaving Atlético Madrid this summer after the Spanish club’s transfer ban was upheld by Fifa.
Bale, who agreed a new deal in October lasting until 2022 worth £350,000 a week after tax and with a €1bn buyout clause, was adamant that he wants to remain at the club he joined in September 2013 from Tottenham Hotspur for £85m, which was then a world-record fee.
“I’ve signed a long-term contract at Madrid,” he said. “My family is happy and I am happy so, yeah, we will continue what we are doing. We are winning trophies and I am happy.
“I’ve worked double sessions for three, four weeks to get myself ready for this, to get myself fit, recover from the surgery – which still has a little more healing to do – but I will be able to rest in the summer, do some more rehab and then come next season stronger. It’s been a tough year with a lot of football and the injuries, but the main thing for me is to get my ankle sorted and give it that rest it needs. I came back too early from the surgery. But I still finished the season happy, it’s a great finish with another trophy.”
United tried to sign Bale in 2013 when David Moyes succeeded Sir Alex Ferguson at Old Trafford but were beaten to his signature. The Welshman’s representatives have dismissed reports linking him with a return to the Premier League, stressing that he has no desire to leave the most successful club in global football. Given that he has now won seven major trophies in only four years in Spain, it is hard to argue that this Madrid side is up there with some of the most successful in history.
“We’re used to this,” Bale said. “We have won three Champions Leagues in four seasons so we have to be in that category. All we can keep doing is keep working hard and hopefully there will be more to come. I think we can get better.
“We are still quite young as a whole team and we have a great squad. We haven’t just got a great eleven, we have a great squad so if any injuries come along there are other people who can do a job. We are strong and confident and the plan is to win more.
“This adds to the history of this club. This club is the biggest in Champions League history ever and now we have even more. It’s great to be a part of.”
Since John McEnroe turned the air blue in the 80s, memorably at decorous Wimbledon but without fear or favour across the tennis landscape, the sport has struggled to accommodate what it regards as unsportsmanlike conduct, as quaint a notion as unparliamentary behaviour at Westminster.
There have been some classic outbursts in the first week of this French Open. Nick Kyrgios brought his fines for the past 12 months to £25,000 with a racket smash during his exit at the hands of Kevin Anderson, and Novak Djokovic was soundly ticked off for gesturing to throw his racket at the umpire at a stressful moment in his tortured win against Diego Schwartzman on Friday.
Andy Murray internalises his angst, beating himself up verbally rather than abusing his racket, the ground or the ball kids.
En route to the fourth round against the young Russian Karen Khachanov on Monday, Murray has chuntered, cursed, smiled and shushed – all in rhythm with his sense of comfort and the level of his play. After a lot of “shushing” to himself and a few wicked glances towards his box in his tense win against Juan Martín del Potro on Saturday, he was happy to explain, perhaps for the first time in detail, what makes his verbal tics tick.
“I was still muttering a lot today,” he said, “maybe not so much at the beginning – but I was losing at the beginning. I don’t know how much of an impact it has on my tennis. What is actually relevant is not what I say the four or five seconds after a point is finished; what’s relevant is the 10, 15 seconds before the next point starts, what is actually going through my head.
“If I’m thinking about the next point and what I’ve done wrong or what I’ve done right in the previous point, that’s very positive. If I’m muttering for 20 seconds, then that isn’t going to be a good thing because I’m not thinking about the next point.
“I felt like when I was getting frustrated [on his way to defeating Del Potro 7-6, 7-5, 6-0]. I stopped myself fairly quickly and got back to playing the right way. I turned it around quickly – and I deserve credit for doing that. I know my head right now is in the right place because I am working things out on the court and that’s what I care about.”
It would be a shame if Murray ever succumbed to the urgings of those who find his on-court ramblings odd or disturbing. They are part of who he is. He has discussed it with professionals, he reveals – although he has not considered using a psychologist this year, which is proving difficult after the non-stop highs of 2016.
“I feel like when I’ve used sports psychologists in the past, I’ve done it when I felt like I wanted to. That’s the most important thing. If it is forced upon you, I don’t really think that that works. You need to be the one deciding ‘I want to do this’.”
Murray’s is the contentment of the driven champion, not necessarily that of a banker, coalminer or journalist. The adrenaline that rushes through him in moments of tension during a big match is surely what keeps him coming back for more.
“I wasn’t playing well enough last week to win the tournament,” he also admitted. “When I was practising, I wasn’t playing well enough. But things can change very quickly. You don’t become a bad tennis player overnight. It can only take one or two good practices, providing you’re trying to do the right things in practice. It wasn’t going to be easy but I feel like I’ve done a good job of that. I’m playing way better than I was a week, 10 days ago.”
And that’s the beauty of Murray: it is impossible to predict which version of him will turn up.
But which Khachanov will we get? Murray takes a walk into the relatively unknown at the beginning of the second week – against a boy named Karen (with the emphasis on the second syllable, he reminded us on Sunday), who played some tough tennis to get the better of John Isner over four sets in three hours on the claustrophobic court 2.
The 21-year-old Russian has not quite lived up to the 2013 assessment of his compatriot, the former world No1 Yevgeny Kafelnikov, who said of him: “He will be in the top 20 by the end of 2015.” But he reached a career-high of 42 last month before slipping to 53, four places behind Kyle Edmund and two ahead of Dan Evans. He did look like a top-20 player against Isner, who struck 14 aces to go with the 66 he had already accumulated at the top of the tournament’s serving statistics.
Khachanov beat the stubborn American at his strong suit as well, prevailing in two of the three tie-breaks to win 7-6 (1), 6-3, 6-7 (5), 7-6 (3). He is unlikely to need motivation in the biggest match of his life but he might draw inspiration from trying to avenge Murray’s win over Del Potro. The Argentinian was Khachanov’s favourite player growing up in Moscow.
But, he said, he will not explode like his other hero, the eccentric Russian Marat Safin. Khachanov’s off-court obsession is chess, so there will be plenty of room for mind games.
The British & Irish Lions management have called for a rethink on tour scheduling following their team’s sluggish opening display on Saturday. The Lions hierarchy say the squad need more time to prepare, having been required to play their opening game within 80 hours of arriving in New Zealand.
John Spencer, the tour manager, remains confident his players will swiftly improve but he wants this Lions squad to be the last to embark on a major series on the opposite side of the world within a week of the domestic season ending.
“I certainly hope so,” Spencer said when asked if he wanted future tour itineraries to be amended in the light of his side’s lacklustre 13-7 win against a Provincial Barbarians XV in Whangarei.
There are also those who believe the Lions should reduce the amount of corporate and community work they do and allocate more time to their rugby. The players, still struggling to shake off the effects of jet lag, spent Sunday morning in Waitangi, where they received a stirring Maori welcome before returning to Auckland to prepare for their second game of the tour, against the Blues on Wednesday.
Spencer, who said the squad’s thoughts and prayers were with the victims of the London Bridge terror attack, is hoping the Lions will be allocated a more helpful slot in the global timetable from 2021 onwards.
“We have always been disappointed in the preparation time,” the former England centre said. “It is arranged for us and we have to take our lot. We hope that, when the global calendar is eventually resolved, just once every four years we will get an extra week at home.”
The Lions manager, however, has defended the decision to sign up to a tough 2017 schedule and not to fly out players early to prepare for the opening fixture. “We think it can be very divisive to split the squad and then try to get it back together again. It isn’t a great difficulty to bond four nations but you don’t want to add distractions to that.
“We don’t mind the schedule of matches and it is welcomed by the coaches and players. You cannot come to New Zealand and try to win Test matches without being tested to the core. I don’t think we need any knee-jerk reactions.
“The first match of the tour is always difficult because you have just travelled. I remember in 1971 we won all our provincial matches here. We won 20 provincial matches but lost the first one in Queensland. These things happen.”
However, Sam Warburton, the Lions captain, has acknowledged that his team need to play significantly better against the Blues and the Crusaders. “We want to be tested,” the Welsh flanker said. “We don’t want to be playing teams where we’re winning by 40 points. They’re the best teams for us right now to compare.
“On Saturday we lost the physical battle in the first half and I don’t think we won enough collisions in defence. That’s the way it is over here; nothing is going to happen easily. We’ve got three weeks now to get as good as we can. It’s how good we are in three weeks’ time that’s really important.”
Ben Te’o confirmed several Lions players were feeling the effects of jet lag before and during the match on Saturday. “The boys are still a little bit jet-lagged but no excuse,” the centre said.
“We had to come here and play hard. They were a good side and we got tested. If I’m honest, the last three days have been really tough: waking up at 1am, some guys getting one or two hours’ sleep.
“Boys were really, really tired before training, before games. But we’ve got to push through and over the next few days it’s going to get a lot easier. The guys playing on Wednesday will probably be feeling a lot better.”
In 2013, dual Brownlow medallist Greg Williams described Joel Selwood as “too courageous for his own good”, and a walking time bomb who needed to be protected from himself. That Williams had been diagnosed with a degenerative brain condition that he linked to repeated head-knocks provided his caution with a hint of menace.
Responding on Nine’s Footy Classified shortly after Williams’ warning, Selwood said there were many things that he’d learnt as a kid that he couldn’t take out of his game. “It’s just so hard to change,” Selwood said. “There are times in games when you have to go for the footy, and that’s one thing that I’ve never had a problem with.”
Here we are, four years later and still not much has changed. The atmosphere of a siege still pervades Selwood’s game and he consciously ignores every self-preserving impulse any normal person should have. He ignored them again during the first quarter on Friday night at Simonds Stadium, when he had a tête-à-tête with Andy Otten’s elbow. This time Selwood hit the ground hard, getting to his feet with a head that looked as if it had come out Kathy Griffin’s prop bag.
Notwithstanding the chunk missing from above his right ear, Selwood pushed away the club’s medical staff to try and return to the contest, ten years of hard-at-it football fashioning his stride, his face again painted in blood. As he reluctantly sought treatment on the bench, the editors at Seven’s Friday night football coverage began splicing together film of the collision to add to a Selwood showreel already crammed with enough blood and hits to the head to make the Rocky films seem tame.
Selwood returned to the ground early in the second quarter with 12 stitches and another scar on the side of his head. “He doesn’t need any more [scars],” said his younger brother and teammate Scott after the Cats posted an impressive 22-point win against fellow Premiership hopefuls Adelaide. “He has got enough scars and he is ugly enough as it is.”
He’s also got enough Brownlow votes (without having won it), but will probably end up with three more after another best afield performance – 21 contested possessions and nine clearances that continued the Crows’ sorry record at Simonds stadium, a venue at which they’ve not won since 2003.
Selwood’s game had been infused with iron long before he first walked through the door at Kardinia Park at the dawn of a Geelong era. The comedian Jerry Lewis once confessed that he tried to get his father to show some emotion by offering him $50,000 to smack Lewis around. Selwood had his two talented older brothers do it for free.
Like a lot of kids, Selwood played his first competitive game of football when he was eight. The difference was that Selwood played his in his brothers’ under-12 team. “We were short, so he bobbed up in his first game as an eight-year-old playing against 12-year-olds and he kicked two or three goals off the forward flank,” older brother Troy recalled to The Age’s Michael Gleeson in 2007.
All sporting eras contain a little bit of luck, and Geelong’s may have been that Selwood had to undergo knee surgery after just six games into his final season with the Bendigo Pioneers in the TAC Cup. This is the only reason why a kid who AFL national talent manager Kevin “Shifter” Sheehan rated as “the best 17-year-old in Australia” fell to Geelong after Hawthorn took luckless Mitchell Thorp with pick six.
From his first game of AFL football, Selwood has personified a harder and more talented Geelong. His early years were a reminder that it’s not always just the old guys who know what toughness means. But not only is Selwood the Cats’ hardest (it’s almost as if he seeks the stitches and scars), for a good part of his ten-and-a-half seasons he has also been the most influential.
By any conventional measure, Selwood is a champion of the game: three Geelong best and fairest awards, five all-Australians nods (three as captain) and three premierships. Selwood also has four AFLPA Robert Rose Awards for Most Courageous. After he won his last three in 2012, 2013 and 2014, you suspect the AFL now just award it to the runner-up.
But despite his burgeoning trophy cabinet, Selwood has been the star who hasn’t seemed to care much about being one. If Patrick Dangerfield has assumed the superstar mantle at Geelong, you sense that it suits Selwood just fine. Reflecting the impact of football’s most devastating one-two punch, Dangerwood has quickly become football’s most exhausted portmanteau.
Yet in many ways the term would be relevant even if Dangerfield didn’t return home to Moggs Creek, a one-hour drive from Geelong. Danger is what fires Selwood, and it is this danger and an appetite for the contest that makes him such a compelling figure in a game, particularly for fans.
While eighteenth-century philosopher Edmund Burke didn’t see a game of AFL, his theory of the sublime goes some way to explain our pleasure in watching Selwood. Part of Burke’s thesis is the notion of “negative pain”, the idea that a feeling of fear – paired with a sense of safety, and the ability to look away, can produce a feeling of delight. For those who don’t consume themselves with demands for him to appear before The Hague for his ducking, watching Selwood for the past ten years has been just that – a delight.
Week after week, the Geelong champion plays in a fearless style that brings into relief the plastic macho of those of us who write about football and question the mental toughness of players.
What cannot be questioned is Selwood’s hardness and his impact on the club where he has played all of his 239 games. In an era where a player’s worth is increasingly defined by multi-year, multi-million contract offers, Selwood is a generational player who not only defines Geelong’s most successful era, but personifies it. And he has the scars to prove it.
The Republic of Ireland secured a morale-boosting 3-1 win over Uruguay in a friendly match, with Jonathan Walters, Cyrus Christie and James McClean all finding the target in Dublin.
Ireland had taken a 28th-minute lead through Walters’s sumptuous effort and, although José Giménez levelled before the break, Christie’s strike and a well-executed third from the substitute McClean rounded off a good evening for the manager, Martin O’Neill.
He made eight changes to the side who lost 3-1 against Mexico with only the goalkeeper, Darren Randolph, and the defenders Christie and Shane Duffy retained, and his big names engineered a significant improvement on the performance at the MetLife Stadium to boost spirits before Austria’s visit to Dublin next Sunday for a World Cup qualifier.
O’Neill’s opposite number, Óscar Tabárez, named only five of the men who started Ururguay’s last World Cup qualifier in Peru, among them the Paris Saint-Germain frontman Edinson Cavani.
In the event Cavani lasted 12 minutes before over-stretching in a vain attempt to reach Randolph’s nonchalant pass across his own penalty area to Duffy at the start of a first half which was to move from the sublime to the ridiculous before it drew to a close.
Ireland’s 4-2-3-1 formation gave them a more solid base than they had enjoyed against the Mexicans when O’Neill’s three-man defence simply did not work but Robbie Brady found himself operating on the right and initially struggled to have his usual influence.
Walters enjoyed some early success in getting behind the Uruguay rearguard but it was Brady who tested Esteban Conde with a swerving 13th-minute effort before Duffy only just failed to connect with a diving header from the Burnley midfielder’s cross seconds later.
Cavani’s replacement, Cristhian Stuani, failed to trouble Randolph with a tame 18th-minute volley and the home side took the lead in some style 10 minutes later.
Glenn Whelan surged on to Jeff Hendrick’s pass and stabbed the ball towards Walters who, having urged his team-mate to step aside, took a touch and then curled a dipping right-foot shot past Conde and into the far corner.
Uruguay were level seven minutes before the break when Giménez made the most of Randolph’s ill-judged decision to come for Egidio Arevalo Rios’ free-kick, although he needed a piece of good fortunate as the ball came off his shoulder as he attempted to head it and looped into the unguarded net.
However, Ireland would have gone in ahead at the break had Walters been able to summon up even a morsel of the quality he had demonstrated earlier when meeting Brady’s volleyed cross in front of an open goal but he contrived to steer his shot against the crossbar from three yards.
Christie did restore the advantage within six minutes of the restart, though, when he cut inside the full-back Martin Cáceres and deceived Conde with a low left-foot shot which Sebastián Coates failed to block.
With Brady now playing in his more accustomed left-sided berth, the Republic were more of a threat despite O’Neill making five substitutions by the hour.
One of them, Keiren Westwood, announced his return to the fold with a fine one-handed save from Gimenez’s towering 68th-minute header but it was Ireland who finished the stronger.
Daryl Murphy tested Conde with a low drive and then set up his fellow substitute McClean to cement the win in clinical fashion. McClean stepped on to Murphy’s pass, skipped over Giménez’s desperate lunge and thumped a shot across the keeper and inside the far post.
Virat Kohli hailed a “massive win” against Pakistan as India delivered the message that, for all the talk of issues behind the scenes in their camp, they are more than capable of defending their Champions Trophy title this summer.
Kohli delivered a batting masterclass, with an unbeaten 81 from 68 balls as his side posted 319 for three in a rain-reduced 48 overs. In the reply Umesh Yadav took three for 30 as Pakistan were bowled out for 164 chasing an adjusted 289 from 41.
With Yuvraj Singh’s 29-ball half-century also wowing the Edgbaston crowd, India looked anything but a team reportedly looking to see their head coach, Anil Kumble, replaced when his one-year contract expires at the end of the tournament.
“It’s a massive win for us,” said Kolhi, who struck six fours and three sixes in a brutal late assault. “The way we played and the confidence we showed was very pleasing as a captain. The way Yuvi batted was the game-changing innings.
“The middle order was outstanding and Yuvi was outstanding. I felt like a club batter next to him. With bat and ball we were nine out of ten, in the field we were six today. If we tune that up to eight or nine we will be a strong side, it was a very complete game for us.”
Yuvraj added: “We started well with the bat and the bowlers came and stuck to the plan and took wickets at regular intervals. India-Pakistan is very special - the Indian fans make it special for us”
Mickey Arthur, Pakistan’s head coach, fronted up after the match, describing the result as a “reality check” for a side who are lowest ranked in the eight-team tournament while lamenting the two dropped catches that gave reprieves to Yuvraj and Kohli on eight and 43 respectively.
“We didn’t take opportunities and they made us pay for it,” Arthur said. “The worrying thing for me is we do the basics wrong. We dropped simple catches. We don’t run well enough between wickets. We don’t hit the keeper with our throws. But we’ll bounce back from it.
Asked how long before performances improve, he replied: “How long is a piece of string? I don’t know. We’re trying every day. Every time we go down to training, we try and get the basics right. We didn’t do it today. And that’s disappointing.”
Amid the hustle and bustle of the Edgbaston Road one man stood quite still. The crowd flowed around him like a river past a rock, men, women and children on their way to the game, all sporting splashes of brilliant green and bright sky blue. Nearby a band banged drums while fans danced giddy circles around them. Off to one side, pedlars cried out “hats, horns, scarves and masks” and touts looking for spare tickets muttered muted inquiries under their breath.
Theirs was a slow business, since no one was selling. TV crews cut back and forth across the stream, looking for people to interview. And over the back someone took a match to a pack of fireworks, so plumes of blue smoke swirled overhead. In the middle of it all the standing man held a homemade sign: “London, Manchester, Mumbai, Terror Never Wins”.
In the morning the International Cricket Council put out a press release confirming that the tournament would go on, just as the Ashes had after the London bombings in 2005. Security was already tight after the attack in Manchester and the police had warned spectators to expect long queues. So a lot of people were delayed getting into the ground. But no one seemed to mind.
Besides, India’s openers took it especially slow and steady in the first few overs, so the latecomers did not miss anything much. India took their time measuring Pakistan’s attack. They scored 72 runs in the final four overs, more than they managed in the entirety of the first 15. By the end of the innings one could spot the Pakistan fans by looking for the flat patches in the stands, because they were the only ones sitting down.
Time was when was the crowds at these games needed to be policed, not protected. India v Pakistan is one of the most fervid fixtures in all of sport and in the 1990s feelings ran so hot that matches boiled up and over. Games between the teams were often interrupted, sometimes abandoned. In 1996 a fight even broke out on the pitch during the final of the Under-15 World Cup between the teams, at Lord’s of all places. It got so bad that during the 1999 World Cup the England and Wales Cricket Board asked the government to introduce emergency legislation to outlaw pitch invasions at cricket stadiums after India’s captain, Mohammad Azharuddin, warned that “somebody was going to get killed” during the match between India and Pakistan at Old Trafford.
The fixture still carries a lot of baggage. The two teams have not played a Test in a decade and their last limited‑overs series finished in January 2013. Both boards say they are keen to play again but the Indian government will not allow it. This week the sports minister, Vijay Goel, said that India and Pakistan would not be playing a bilateral series any time soon because “cricket and terrorism can’t go hand-in-hand”. Lately they have played only when they have been drawn together in ICC tournaments, something which, luckily enough for the fans, sponsors and TV networks, seems to happen with uncanny regularity. But despite all that, or perhaps because of it, the fixture does not seem to generate as much heat as it once did.
“Nothing different, to be honest,” was Virat Kohli’s blunt assessment before this match. “I know it sounds pretty boring but this is exactly what we feel as cricketers.” Kohli could afford to be blasé. India have now won eight of the nine games the two teams have played in tournaments this decade, the only exception being a match in the Asia Cup in 2014. So the gulf between the two teams feels as wide now as it has ever been. Partly this is because Pakistan are rebuilding their team. The last time they played a one-day international against India, in the 2015 World Cup, they had Shahid Afridi, Umar Akmal, Younis Khan and Misbah-ul-Haq in the team.
Three are retired now, and the fourth, Akmal, was kicked out of the squad because he failed a fitness test. This is a callow Pakistan team then, out-matched by an outstanding Indian side hardened by all those seasons of intense limited overs cricket in the Indian Premier League. When the game started to escape the Pakistanis they were not able to regain any measure of control over it. They ran flush out of luck too, which did not help. Their bowling attack collapsed in the final overs as Mohammad Amir and Wahab Riaz had to leave the field, injured. In the end the match was not much of a contest but it never stopped being an occasion.
At twenty past ten, almost exactly 12 hours after the attack in London, Edgbaston fell quiet in a minute’s silence. It was the only moment between dawn and dusk in which the streets around the ground were not loud with the sound of screams, shouts, whistles, horns and drums. There was succour to be found in the crowd, in their determination to go on with the frivolous business of singing, dancing and cheering to celebrate sixes and wickets. It was the largest attendance they have ever had for a one-day game at Edgbaston, just under 25,000 people altogether, a 50-50 mix, part Pakistani, part Indian, all proudly British. The fixture, which in the past has often split supporters apart, served to bring everyone a little closer together.
Authorities say former Los Angeles Lakers player and ex-New York Knicks head coach Derek Fisher has been arrested on suspicion of drink driving after he flipped his vehicle on a California highway.
The California Highway Patrol says neither Fisher nor his passenger, former Basketball Wives reality star Gloria Govan, were injured in the crash early on Sunday.
Authorities say Fisher was driving on US 101 in the Sherman Oaks area of Los Angeles when his 2015 Cadillac veered onto the right shoulder while approaching an interchange. The car hit the shoulder’s concrete curb and guardrail, overturned and came to a rest on its roof.
The Highway Patrol says officers discovered that Fisher had been drinking and he was arrested on suspicion of driving under the influence of alcohol.
India are up and running in the defence of their Champions Trophy title following a brutal exhibition of ball-striking from Virat Kohli and Yuvraj Singh that, on the ground where they lifted the trophy four years ago, simply crushed their arch-rivals Pakistan.
But while the result – a 124-run win by Duckworth-Lewis – may have met pre-match expectations in terms of the current gulf between the two sides, the atmosphere at least exceeded them as a record crowd of 24,165 throbbed throughout a day that required patience given its regular stoppages for rain.
This was a match strewn with errors, perhaps because of the magnitude of the occasion given a global TV audience tipped to approach one billion, but at least it ended with the brollies packed away and the ground bathed in glorious sunshine. Pakistan, faced with an ever-increasing run-rate, were bowled out for 164 in 33.4 overs with the No11, Wahab Riaz, failing to emerge due to injury. Umesh Yadav led the Indian attack with three for 30.
Sarfraz Ahmed’s side had been chasing a rain-adjusted target of 289 from 41 overs but always looked up against it after India had stuck 319 for three on the board in 48. It was a total that was heavily bloated by the power-hitting at the end during which Kohli hit an unbeaten 81 from 68 balls, Yuvraj creamed 53 from 32 and Hardik Pandya launched three late sixes in his six-ball 20 not out.
A hostile opening burst from Mohammad Amir notwithstanding, the decision to stick India in at the toss by Sarfraz resulted in an ominous start. Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma eased to 125 by the 25th over, laying the platform for their side’s late assault while bringing up their ninth century opening stand in ODIs and a record third in Champions Trophy cricket.
Despite Pakistan’s head coach, Mickey Arthur, talking up their preparation leading into the match, his side were shabbier in the field than some of the items for sale in the nearby Moseley vintage fair and, though the two rain breaks that wiped out 75 minutes of play gave them a couple of chances to regroup, they instead got progressively worse. By the end, when Kohli and Yuvraj were clubbing boundaries for fun, the wheels were off completely.
Sharma’s 91 from 119 balls was an old-style affair from the owner of the world record ODI score of 264. Monopolising much of the strike first thing, he was duly first to his fifty off 71 balls when launching the 18-year-old Shadab Khan over midwicket for six. The much-denied Dhawan then briefly crackled in bringing up his own milestone before, on 68, the leg-spinner’s friend – aka a rank full toss – was plopped into the hands of Azhar Ali in the deep.
Kohli’s arrival to a wall of noise, one that doubtless left Edgbaston locals wondering why their glassware had begun to shake, brought with it a relatively sedate passage of play. A stand of 56 with Sharma, interrupted by the second downpour, came from 12.1 overs with the opener at one stage going 44 balls between boundaries.
Sharma’s eventual demise came to the surprise of many. A seemingly innocuous run-out attempt from point ended with the bat over the line but pushed up by the dive such that the third umpire, Richard Kettleborough, judged it not to be grounded.
With 10 overs of to go and Yuvraj new to the crease, the score was 202 for two and Pakistan were still in it provided they could apply the squeeze. But instead two regulation drops handed lives to both batsmen and, with Amir and Wahab succumbing to cramp and an ankle problem respectively, 117 runs were flayed, including an astonishing 72 from the last 24 deliveries.
Yuvraj was first to profit in the 39th over when, with eight to his name, he duffed a googly from Shadab to Hasan Ali at long-on only to see the ball grassed on the slide. From there the left-hander went into overdrive, carving a 29-ball half-century with short-arm bunts down the ground for four and one heaved six before eventually being trapped lbw by a Hasan yorker with 10 balls remaining.
Kohli, who was dropped on 43 in the deep by the substitute Faheem Ashraf, was not to be outdone and having hit four fours in his first 55 balls, joined the violent dismantling of Pakistan’s attack. Wahab was particularly to his taste, with the left-armer taken for two fours and one screaming six before hobbling off with his ankle apparently crocked and his figures – 8.4 overs, none for 87 – in tatters.
It meant Imad Wasim, the left-arm spinner who had bafflingly been given six overs with the new ball, had to see things out. It could not have started worse as the new man, Pandya, slapped him for three successive sixes before Kohli capped off the innings with a sixth four laced through extra cover; it summed up the dominance.
Pakistan’s reply, with an original adjusted target of 324 cut after a 35-minute rain break early on, hinged on Azhar converting his 64-ball half-century into an innings of substance and given support at the other end. Neither materialised, with Ahmed Shehzad trapped lbw for 12 by Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Babar Azam slashing Yadav to point on eight before Azhar himself swept Ravindra Jadeja to deep square-leg the ball after reaching his 50. After Shoaib Malik was brilliantly run out by Jadeja and Mohammad Hafeez clubbed the left-armer up in the air on 33, the lower order simply disintegrated.
Castleford took another step towards finally securing the title after almost a century of trying with a narrow home victory against St Helens. The win was notable also for the fact that they were without a number of key front-line players.
Daryl Powell, the Tigers’ head coach, made no secret of how, with this third game of a gruelling 10-day period, he would rest several big names to not only make a point to the sport’s schedulers but also to ensure that his Castleford players do not burn out in the long term.
Powell was without more than 1,000 games worth of Super League experience , with England internationals such as Luke Gale, Zak Hardaker and Michael Shenton all missing. And while they have already beaten some of their opponents with remarkable free-flowing rugby on many occasions this season, given the circumstances this win surely ranks as their best of the year so far.
The added bonus for Castleford was that with Salford Red Devils losing at home against Wakefield, it extended the their own lead at the top of the Super League table to four points. “It’s one of the biggest wins I’ve been involved in, honestly,” Powell said. “We can’t get carried away with having a buffer at the top but we’ve got something special going here.”
St Helens had a 10-day turnaround for this game: another bone of contention for Powell pre-match given that his side played as recently as last Monday. Yet despite two earlier encouraging performances under their new coach, Justin Holbrook, the 12-4 half-time lead they established was eventually overturned with Tom Holmes’s late try nine minutes from time to inflict a first defeat on the Australian as coach.
“It’s a missed opportunity,” Holbrook said later. “They have the luxury of where they’re sitting in the table to rest players and they’ve earned that, but for us to fall just short is disappointing.”
Saints led when Mark Percival rounded Kieran Gill, one of several Castleford youngsters handed an opportunity in a much-changed side, to break the deadlock – though Gill would respond with a try of his own on debut as half-time approached. Louie McCarthy-Scarsbrook extended the lead to eight points with a close-range finish on 37 minutes, and from there the visiting side appeared to be in control.
However, the Tigers were able to keep their opponents scoreless in the second half, scoring two tries of their own to secure a precious victory.
First, Mike McMeeken’s wonderful solo effort on the hour set up a dramatic finale, with Castleford going ahead for the first, and only, time nine minutes from the end when Holmes reacted quickest to a desperate kick to touch down and extend the Tigers’ lead at the top of the table.
Right now it would take a brave man to back against Castleford staying at the top for the duration of the season.
Castleford Eden; Gill, Webster, Monaghan, Minikin; Roberts, Holmes; Lynch, McShane, Massey, Foster, Larroyer, Sene-Lefao. Interchange McMeeken, Moors, Hitchcox, Trueman.
Tries Gill, McMeeken, Holmes. Goals McShane 2.
St Helens Makinson; Swift, Morgan, Percival, Grace; Lomax, Smith; Walmsley, Roby, Amor, Taia, Wilkin, Knowles. Interchange Lee, McCarthy-Scarsbrook, Douglas, Thompson.
Tries Percival, McCarthy-Scarsbrook. Goals Makinson 2.
Referee C Campbell. Attendance 8,515.
Steven Finn’s summons to the Champions Trophy squad was confirmed on Sunday and he was understandably delighted that he has been chosen to replace Chris Woakes. But being a conscientious student of the game he must be aware that he has not been invited to a picnic for bowlers.
So far it has been a batsman’s tournament between the exasperating showers. The pitches have been brown and true and the ball has declined to deviate. Often bowlers have been in survival mode and Finn’s experience made him the more obvious choice ahead of Tom Curran or Toby Roland-Jones.
Finn made his one-day international debut six years ago; has 69 matches under his belt and he was in England’s Champions Trophy squad in 2013 when he played one game against South Africa.
“It’s great to be here,” Finn said on arrival at a damp Cardiff. “It is obviously very sad for Chris Woakes, who is a good friend of mine, but I’m glad I have got the call. I’ve been on the periphery for a little while. You have always got a point to prove when you have been out of the team.”
The problem for the bowlers has been avoiding the middle of the bat. Moreover the middle of today’s bats occupies far more space than it did in the 20th century. There are two ways to do it: by lateral movement which can be achieved by seam, spin or swing, or by exceptional/ uneven bounce which can cause the ball to hit the bottom or shoulder of the bat and go nowhere.
So far there has been minimal swing, seam or spin, which helps to explain the absence of David Willey and Adil Rashid from England’s team at The Oval against Bangladesh. The current batch of white balls stubbornly refuse to swing and this is a source of frustration for such as Willey as well as being a minor stain on the tournament. It is a better game when the bowlers have a chance at some point in the innings.
This state of affairs makes tall bowlers who can gain exceptional bounce more appealing to on-field captains, who have often been as harassed as the poor groundsmen heaving the covers on and off. Finn at his best can hit the shoulder of the bat; two years ago he was arguably England’s premier one-day bowler, who was regularly tossed the new ball. Then he did not play a game between September 2015 and March 2017. Now it is just conceivable that, having been brought into the squad, Finn could play against New Zealand on Tuesday ahead of Jake Ball, who has conceded more than 80 runs in two of his last three outings, and Willey.
Off the field Finn is a mild-mannered, contemplative man (on it he is no Dennis Lillee) but he is prepared to outline what he brings to the squad. “I think I’ve got a good record in one-day cricket,” he says. “I am slightly taller than the other guys and can therefore get a bit more bounce. I’ve played a lot of ODIs. There is experience there. I think we have got a really well balanced squad and hopefully my personal attributes can bring something to that.”
He has seldom been regarded as a miserly bowler yet his economy rate compares well with those of his peers (in fact it is much better than that of any other bowler in the squad) but that is partly explained by his longevity – there has been hyper-inflation in run-scoring over the past 18 months. But he does satisfy the demands of the modern ODI game since he has always been a wicket-taker.
“Taking wickets is always something I try to do,” he explains, which sounds an obvious thing to say but has a particular significance in the context of ODI cricket. “I never take a backward step or try to be negative or defensive. I think trying to take wickets is the mantra we have tried to adopt as a one-day bowling side and I can help that.”
On Saturday he was playing for the England Lions against South Africa A and he was aware that he was under scrutiny after the injury to Woakes. In a straightforward victory he finished with two for 49 from 8.3 overs.
“I knew James Whitaker and Mick Newell were there,” he said. “You feel that pressure knowing that they are watching you to call you up for this game. But that is no different from every time I pull on an England or Lions shirt. I had a bit of a stiff back in the Lions game at Nottingham on Thursday so it was a case of making sure my back was 100%. So it was a mixture of seeing my fitness and how I was bowling. If I had bowled a big pile of garbage, then I wouldn’t be standing here now.”
Rafael Nadal is looking every inch the champion he was here five years ago and it is clearly going to take someone playing special tennis to stop the Spaniard winning his 10th title.
Whether that person is Novak Djokovic was difficult to say after another win that mixed waywardness with brilliance on Sunday evening.
The defending champion, who also looked lost at various points over five sets against Diego Schwartzman on Friday, has hardly had a sound preparation for a likely semi-final against Nadal, the rival who has won the title here nine times. But he finished a patchy assignment against Albert Ramos-Viñolas – Andy Murray’s conqueror in Monte Carlo – going through to the next round with a 7-6, 6-1, 6-3 win.
Who else can stop Nadal at Roland Garros? With all the generosity one could muster, it probably will not be Pablo Carreno Busta, who took 4hr 17min to defeat Milos Raonic over five gruelling sets on Sunday for the honour of playing his Spanish friend in the quarter-finals on Tuesday.
When Nadal won his seventh championship in 2012, he gave up only 19 games on his way to the last eight. On Sunday he raced into the quarters ahead of the field in a mere 1hr 51min, dismissing another Spaniard, Roberto Bautista Agut, 6-1, 6-2, 6-2. This time his first four matches have cost him 20 games.
Ena Sharples had fewer numbers against her trying to win Friday-night bingo than Busta has against Nadal but after defeating Raonic 4-6, 7-6, 6-7, 6-4, 8-6 he insisted: “Maybe I’ll lose easy, maybe I’ll win easy.”
Those two maybes are about as far apart as the players’ professional records. Nadal has won three tournaments this year and 72 in his career; Busta has won three titles in the eight years he has been playing tennis for a living.
Five years ago Nadal’s first four opponents had a combined ranking of 216. Here he has beaten Benoît Paire (45), Robin Haase (46), Nikoloz Basilashvili (63) and Agut (18): a total of 172.
Having turned 31 on Saturday, Nadal, statistically and by common agreement, is playing tennis as awesome as when he was at or near his peak. In 2012 he won four titles and 42 of his 48 matches; this year he has won 36 of 42.
If Nadal defeats Busta, he will post his 100th win in best-of-five matches on clay, against two defeats. Both of those were here, against Robin Soderling in 2009 and Djokovic two years ago. There cannot be a record like it in sport.
While that blizzard of statistics might be a lot to take in, pity the plight of Agut, who had to soak up 31 clear winners in less than two hours, 18 of them ripped on that forehand by the left wrist that last year gave up on Nadal after two matches. He is hitting the ball with as much venomous top-spin as he has done in a long while and he is without question the most dangerous player remaining in the draw.
“Probably I didn’t play as well as I did the other day,” he said later, which is not as arrogant as it sounds. “I made a few mistakes but not important ones. In general terms I played well.
“The most important thing for me is I was able to play with no injuries and not too many problems since [Carlos Moyá joined his team]. We have been able to practise as much as we wanted and the way that we wanted.”
There have been suggestions that his uncle, Toni – who will give up his main coaching role at the end of the year – admonished Nadal at the start of the season for what he perceived to be a lack of motivation. Nadal replied: “I believe that my attitude never was wrong, so is not a question of attitude; it’s a question of tennis and is a question of health. If you’re healthy, it’s easy to play with good attitude and easy to practise.”
What is obvious is that Busta, who has had a decent season and a solid tournament, will find this match tougher than any of their previous three, all of which he lost. Raonic kept the world No21 on court to contest 382 points and the Spaniard said later: “It was really tough. I suffered but I enjoyed it. And, of course, you enjoy it more when you win. He played very well on match point [the Canadian saved six of them]. The rallies were very long. He was defending well all the time.
“If I didn’t think I had a chance, I would not play. Of course it will be difficult because Rafa is the best player on the surface in history. I am maybe tired but I have one day off. We will see on Tuesday. He’s a really good friend. It will be a really special match for me.”
The short odds are that it will be a special occasion for Busta but not a match that will change his career. Nadal told Spanish journalists: “I fully respect each opponent and I fully respect the tournament. Just because things go well for you it does not mean things are going to continue like this. You have to be ready so that you can react to bad moments that might happen.”
A tearful Garbiñe Muguruza hit out at the crowd after her title defence was ended by France’s Kristina Mladenovic. The Spaniard, who defeated Serena Williams in the final 12 months ago, walked off wagging her finger at the fans on Court Suzanne Lenglen.
There has not been a French winner since Mary Pierce in 2000 and Mladenovic was cheered raucously during her 6-1, 3-6, 6-3 victory. But Muguruza felt the support went too far, saying: “I think the audience was really tough today. I can’t really understand. I don’t know how to explain. If you had been in my shoes on the court, I think you would have understood.”
She broke down in tears in her press conference and had to leave the room for a few minutes before returning. It appeared there was no love lost between the players either, with Muguruza asked about Mladenovic’s habit of shouting forza in Italian at key moments. “I think she speaks like 25 languages, I heard,” said Muguruza.
Along with intense disappointment, there was also relief for the Spaniard, who has struggled to cope with the expectation since her triumph here last year. “I lost confidence, and my opponent was on home turf, so it created a lot of tension,” she said. “Of course I’m sad. It’s a very painful defeat here at the French Open. I love this tournament no matter what happens. I’m going to be super happy to come back. It’s going to sound weird, but I’m actually happy that this stage of the year is done.
“I wanted to go as far as possible, but even if I didn’t, I think I’m going to feel much better now to continue the year, and everybody is going to stop bothering me asking me about this tournament.”
Mladenovic, though, praised her supporters. “The courage and the force you give me is just unimaginable. It’s thanks to you that I fought for every point. And we’re in the quarter-finals. Yes!”
She has been struggling with a bad back since the eve of the tournament and served 16 double faults, but the rest of her game made up for it. She said: “Everything wasn’t perfect. There were a few concerns.” She then joked: “I made about 35 double faults today, but everything’s OK.”
Venus Williams, Svetlana Kuznetsova and Sam Stosur also went out, meaning the women’s event will have a first-time champion this year.
Williams, who had been hoping to win the tournament for the first time in the month of her 37th birthday and add to her seven grand slam titles, lost 5-7, 6-2, 6-1 to Timea Bacsinszky, the second year in a row the Swiss has beaten her in the fourth round.
“I think she just played really well,” Williams said. “She had so many answers today. I just give her credit for playing well every point, even in the first set.”
Caroline Wozniacki, with two grand slam final appearances to her credit the most experienced player left, continued her fine year with a surprise 6-1, 4-6, 6-2 victory over the 2009 champion Kuznetsova. Despite facing an opponent proficient on clay, which is not the Dane’s best surface, Wozniacki showed unexpected aggression on her forehand, matching her opponent’s tally of 26 winners. Kuznetsova did not help her cause with 41 unforced errors. Wozniacki next faces the Latvian teenager Jelena Ostapenko, who knocked out Stosur 2-6, 6-2, 6-4 to reach her first quarter-final.
Four third-round matches were carried over from Saturday, and the top-five seeds Karolina Pliskova and Elina Svitolina went through. The Croatian qualifier Petra Martic defeated the No17 seed Anastasija Sevastova while Verónica Cepede Royg of Paraguay reached the fourth round for the first time.
Michael Carrick paid tribute to the Old Trafford crowd for supporting his testimonial but his Manchester United team-mate Wayne Rooney may have bade farewell.
Carrick marked 11 years at the club with a match to benefit his charitable foundation in front of 70,027 fans and, while the midfielder will be around for another 12 months after signing a contract extension, fans may have witnessed Rooney’s final appearance in a Red Devils shirt.
He played the entire first half and the final 17 minutes of the second and in that time the club’s all-time leading goalscorer, who has fallen out of favour with the manager, José Mourinho, and appears destined to leave this summer, lobbed one early effort on to the roof of the net.
While Rooney could be excused to some degree, having flown back from a family holiday in Barbados to play in the friendly, it was perhaps indicative of his current situation that he did not particularly stand out in the company of a host of long-retired former professionals. At the final whistle he gave a quick wave to fans before heading down the tunnel.
Carrick, who saw a deft first-half chip drift wide of the angle of crossbar and post, scored the equaliser in a 2-2 draw draw eight minutes from time before departing to a standing ovation.
Despite more than a decade at United the pre-match team sheet somehow managed to spell the main man’s name wrong – he was originally listed as Carrtick before the error was quickly corrected. The names of Clarence Seedorf and Harry Redknapp were also spelt incorrectly.
Spot the error...#MUFC pic.twitter.com/o5UZAsgsPy
Carrick offered his condolences to the families and friends of victims of the London attacks on Saturday and those in Manchester a fortnight ago.
Kick-off for the game was brought forward so as not to clash with the One Love Manchester concert being held at the neighbouring cricket ground later in the evening, in aid of the those affected by the suicide bomb attack at the Manchester Arena on 22 May which killed 22 people.
A number of victims’ families were in the Old Trafford crowd, as were about 300 members of the emergency services who dealt with the aftermath of the atrocity.
“Obviously this game has extra significance in the wake of what has happened in the last two weeks,” said Carrick, who laid floral tributes before a minute’s silence for victims of both attacks.
“I’d like to extend my condolences to those affected by the events in Manchester and also those in London. My heart goes out to all those affected and my message is stay together and stay strong.
“On my behalf I’d like to welcome some of the families of the victims. I’d also like to welcome about 300 of the emergency services who were heroic in their efforts in the last couple of weeks.”
Regarding the testimonial he said: “The atmosphere was incredible. There was no way I could have hoped for anything like this. I know we get full houses here every week but it is not something I take for granted and to get so many here today is sensational.
“I have to thank the fans for their support. Let’s not forget we’re back here next season to try to win some more trophies.
“And finally a thank you to Sir Alex [Ferguson], the man who brought me to the club.
“We all know how great he is and his achievements at the club but he’s been a massive influence on my career. Thanks very much boss.”
The former Lazio, Barcelona and Middlesbrough midfielder Gaizka Mendieta’s 22nd-minute goal was cancelled out by Nemanja Vidic’s header for the Manchester United ’08 XI before the half-hour. Midway through the second half Robbie Keane put the All-Stars XI ahead only for Carrick to have the final word.
ITV has joined Britain’s bookmakers in celebration after the 40-1 success of Wings Of Eagles in the Investec Derby at Epsom. Viewing figures for the channel’s coverage of the Classic showed clear improvement on those recorded by Channel 4 last year.
ITV Racing’s coverage drew a peak audience of 1.7m viewers for the race at 4.30pm on Saturday, versus a peak of 1.374m for Channel 4’s broadcast in 2016. ITV’s peak figure was also better than any of those recorded by C4 during its four-year contract to cover the race between 2013 and 2016 – but well below the 3.3m peak achieved by BBC Sport in the final year of its contract in 2012.
The average audience for ITV’s coverage was 820,000, an increase of around 30% on the figure of 628,000 in 2016, while ITV’s audience share of 11.3% was also the highest for the Classic since 2012.
This year’s Derby was one of the most open races for many years and Wings Of Eagles was the biggest outsider to win since the 1970s and the first winner at double-figure odds since 1998.
The colt’s unexpected success under the little-known jockey Padraig Beggy, allied to the improved viewing figures for the race, also suggest that racing’s finances should receive an unexpected boost from the outcome, since bookmakers’ contributions to the sport via a reformed Levy system are linked to their gross profit.
The Derby is normally the third-biggest betting race of the year, after the Grand National and Cheltenham Gold Cup, and a large field in which Cracksman, with Frankie Dettori aboard, started favourite at 7-2 is likely to have produced strong turnover.
Cracksman, who was having only the third start of his career, ran in snatches before staying on in the final quarter-mile to finish third behind Wings Of Eagles and Cliffs Of Moher, the apparent first string in Aidan O’Brien’s six runners in the race.
O’Brien said on Sunday that the first two horses home could go their separate ways for their next starts, with Wings Of Eagles a possible runner in the Irish Derby at The Curragh on 1 July while Cliffs Of Moher drops back to a mile-and-a-quarter in the Eclipse Stakes at Sandown Park a week later.
“They seem to be fine,” O’Brien said. “Obviously they haven’t done much today but they seem to be fine so far.
“We might have a look at the Irish Derby with Wings Of Eagles and it’s possible we might have a look at the Eclipse with Cliffs Of Moher, but we’re not sure yet. It will be a week or 10 days before we decide anything but that’s what we are thinking at the moment.”
Wings Of Eagles was O’Brien’s sixth Derby winner at Epsom but the trainer has yet to win the French equivalent at Chantilly and his blank will extend for at least another 12 months after his three runners in Sunday’s renewal of the Prix du Jockey Club finished unplaced behind the favourite, Brametot.
Brametot took the French 2,000 Guineas at Deauville last month and was a 7-4 chance to follow up on Sunday but his prospects did not look good in the early stages of the race as Cristian Demuro sat at the back of the field after a slow start.
Demuro’s mount made some progress from the rear as the race developed but still had plenty of ground to make up as the 12 runners turned for home. The colt did not hit the front until the final stride, beating André Fabre’s Waldgeist by a short head with Recoletos in third. Bay Of Poets, from Charlie Appleby’s yard in Newmarket, fared best of the three British-trained runners in seventh, while William Haggas’s Rivet, last year’s Racing Post Trophy winner, was eighth.
No winner of the French Derby has gone on to win the Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe in October since the distance of the Classic was reduced to 10½ furlongs in 2005. Brametot is top-priced at 10-1 to become the first to do so, in a market headed by Almanzor, last year’s French Derby winner, at 6-1.
David ‘Dandy’ Nicholls, the trainer whose exploits with sprinters over the last quarter of a century had earned him the nickname “the sprint king”, has died at the age of 61. He saddled six Group One winners in his career, including Continent in the July Cup at Newmarket in 2002 and Ya Malak – with his wife Alex in the saddle – in the 1997 Nunthorpe Stakes at York, and won almost all the Flat season’s major sprint handicaps at least once.
Nicholls began his racing career as a jockey, recording more than 400 winners and forming a brilliant partnership with Soba, a filly who won 11 races in 1982 including the Stewards’ Cup at Goodwood.
Retiring from the saddle and turning his attention to training in 1992, Nicholls soon established a reputation for finding improvement in other trainers’ cast-offs, and apparently exposed sprinters in particular.
Ya Malak was a prime example of Nicholls’s ability to spot a bargain. The gelding was bought as a five-year-old having shown occasional glimpses of serious ability for Pip Payne and Ian Balding – and dead-heated for the Group One Nunthorpe less than a year later, making his rider the first woman to win a race at the highest level in Britain.
Nicholls saddled Bahamian Pirate to win the same race in 2004, while Continent, originally trained for Prince Khalid Abdullah’s Juddmonte operation in France, took the Ayr Gold Cup in 2001 and then two Group One events the following season after being bought by Nicholls for 40,000 guineas. Continent was eventually retired at the age of 11 with career earnings of almost £450,000.
In all, Nicholls took the Ayr Gold Cup six times, and the Stewards’ Cup on three occasions. Redford, a useful horse on a 15-race losing streak, took the Ayr handicap in impressive style barely a month after joining the Nicholls stable, while Regal Parade, a 425,000gns yearling, joined the yard for 16,000gns before winning the Ayr Gold Cup, a handicap at Royal Ascot and the Group 1 Haydock Sprint Cup.
Nicholls announced in March that he was closing his training operation due to financial problems. He was also due to stand trial in August on two charges of sexual assault, relating to incidents at his yard near Thirsk. He denied the charges.
Adrian Nicholls, the trainer’s son and former stable jockey, said on Sunday that his father “passed away in his sleep at home this morning. He’d been battling a few problems of late.
“Everybody knows in racing what he did. He was a very good jockey and an even better trainer and probably an even better dad. His record speaks for itself. There are a few other people snapping at his heels to take the ‘sprint king’ title, but they’ll be doing well to do what he did.”
Leicester
2.20 Porchy Party 2.50 Bourbonisto 3.20 Meteor Light (nb) 3.50 Verity 4.20 Mesbaar 4.55 Present Tense 5.25 Taskeen 6.00 Magic Moments
Thirsk
2.00 Mabo 2.30 Jedi Master 3.00 Judicious 3.30 Compton Park 4.00 Tadaawol 4.35 Gaval 5.05 Lyric Harmony 5.35 Navajo Thunder
Newton Abbot
2.10 Fuhgeddaboudit 2.40 Alcala 3.10 Rossetti 3.40 Mahlers Star 4.10 Passmore 4.45 Deauville Dancer 5.15 Lake Chapala
Ayr
5.55 Born To Be Alive 6.25 Love Oasis 6.55 Mo Henry 7.25 The McGregornator 7.55 SS Vega 8.25 Fieldsman (nap) 8.55 Buzz Boy
Windsor
5.40 Choice Encounter 6.10 Madame Bounty 6.40 Steaming 7.10 West Drive 7.40 Ice Age 8.10 Open Wide 8.40 Arsenio Lupin
Yorkshire’s Roses victory came with the minimum of fuss. On day three they clinically swept away Lancashire’s last six wickets for 68, then knocked off the required 60 for a 10-wicket win. “From start to finish we dominated” was the succinct and entirely accurate assessment of Andrew Gale, their coach. Whisper it, but this performance, which takes Yorkshire within two points of the leaders, Essex, was reminiscent of those seen when they won twin titles under Gale’s captaincy.
On a pitch full of juice – “one of the best I’ve seen at Headingley,” Gale said, before lamenting that it would probably be rated “average” under the England and Wales Cricket Board’s grading system – they had bowled relentlessly throughout, did not shell a chance (a welcome change from recent games) and in Adam Lyth’s battling century, achieved the game’s only score of more than 50. “If I could show the academy a video of how to bat at Headingley, that would be it,” Gale said of Lyth.
The bowling on the third morning was almost as excellent as it had been on the first, when they dismissed Lancashire for 123. “As good as you’ll see in county cricket,” Gale added with a grin.
Ryan Sidebottom, now 39 and who every Yorkshireman should be begging not to retire, had Dane Vilas caught at slip, then Ben Coad had Shiv Chanderpaul edging behind, all before Lancashire had a lead. Coad had dismissed their prize scalps, Haseeb Hameed and Chanderpaul, twice each and ended with eight wickets in the match.
Ryan McLaren and Jordan Clark ensured Yorkshire would bat again, putting on 48, before Tim Bresnan made his first major contribution. He took three wickets in 16 balls and Sidebottom got rid of Tom Bailey, all caught by the wicketkeeper or cordon (like 22 of the match’s 30 wickets), to ensure the target remained so low that sweat would not be broken.
Indeed it was not. With 21 runs required for victory off they went for lunch, perhaps because there was a do being thrown for former Yorkshire players – having not given them an inch all match they generously invited a few Lancastrians, too.
What remained was a formality as Lyth and Alex Lees milked Lancashire’s spinners – who were bowling to avoid the loss of points because of their poor over-rate – with any semblance of intensity gone; even Hameed served up three overs. Eventually, Lees grew bored and carted Steven Croft wide of mid-on to put Lancashire out of their misery.
They had been playing catch-up since choosing to toss, then bat. On a pitch that would have suited him down to the ground, Glen Chapple, the coach, was adamant that it was the performance, not the captain’s call, that cost them. “The quality of our bowling did not match theirs. We have to take that on the chin,” he said.
Chapple said the return from injury of Jimmy Anderson, who was bowling at about 50% before play, is coming on very well and added that he is “a fast healer”, though not fast enough to face Middlesex at Southport on Friday, alas.
Jonathan Trott was in Birmingham on Saturday, sorting out a family issue. When he returned to the Ageas Bowl on Sunday, he was confronted with another problem: Warwickshire had tumbled to 49 for six in response to Hampshire’s 515.
There remain few better at burrowing out of a crisis and, from No8, he made his 43rd first-class century but could not avert the follow-on. Thirteen balls into Warwickshire’s second innings, which they began 261 behind, he was back in. With the openers, Ian Westwood and Andrew Umeed, falling cheaply, he and his skipper, Ian Bell, put on an unbroken 66. They closed still 186 runs behind but Trott, with 17 from 58 balls, had shown his team the way.
First time round Trott shared 32 with the nightwatchman, Grant Thornton, and 104 with Keith Barker, who made 63. Finally there was the 54 across 20 overs with the last man Sunny Singh, which delayed tea and brought a second batting point. Trott eventually fell lbw to one that stayed low from Kyle Abbott, first ball after tea, but he was not gone for long.
The only team below Warwickshire, Somerset, toiled manfully against Middlesex at Lord’s but the hosts avoided the follow-on late on, ending 298 for seven with Adam Voges also having retired hurt for 86. Somerset lead by 132, and require something remarkable to earn their first win.
At Hove, Worcestershire put on 215 for the first wicket, with Daryl Mitchell making his third hundred in as many matches, only to be bowled out for 312, and forced to follow-on by Sussex. Jofra Archer took four wickets and Vernon Philander three, including his 500th in first-class cricket. Mitchell, again, held Worcestershire together, making his sixth half-century in six innings, but they closed 143 behind with six wickets in hand, having lost 14 for 221.
Nottinghamshire head into the final day against Derbyshire 179 ahead with four wickets in hand, seeking to extend their advantage at the top of Division Two. Samit Patel’s first half-century of the season carried them to 313 for six.
Cameron Steel made his maiden first-class century, brought up with a six as winless Durham made 376 against Northamptonshire, for whom Mohammad Azharullah took five for 72. That left Northants requiring 205 to win and Paul Coughlin immediately dismissed Max Holden as they closed 44 for one. If the weather allows, a thrilling final day awaits.
After six years away cricket made a welcome return to the BBC’s television schedules last week with highlights of the opening match of the Champions Trophy between England and Bangladesh. Shown on BBC2 at 11.20pm on Thursday night due to contractual restrictions that dictate the programme can only start once Sky’s coverage is off air, it attracted barely 200,000 viewers, according to early estimates, at a time when most people have already turned in for the night.
Those who wanted to catch up with the abandoned match between Australia and New Zealand on Friday had to wait even longer – 25 minutes into Saturday – in what appears to be a spectacularly bad piece of scheduling at a time when the England and Wales Cricket Board is desperate to increase participation among young people.
The ECB may point to more than 500,000 views of the replay clips available on the BBC website as evidence that interest in the game is still alive and well, although it remains to be seen whether that will be enough to convince the national broadcaster to outbid potential offers from the Discovery Channel, ITV and Channel 5 for a slice of the ECB’s five‑year rights deal for English cricket from 2020, which will be decided later on this month.
It is now almost two decades since the BBC’s 61-year exclusive coverage of home Tests came to an end with a 10-wicket victory for a Muttiah Muralitharan-inspired Sri Lanka in a one-match “series” at The Oval in August 1998. Within a year England had crashed out of their home World Cup in the group stages and sank to the bottom of the Test rankings with a series defeat against New Zealand – only the second time the Black Caps had tasted victory in a series on English soil.
While things have gradually improved for England since then, with Joe Root due to begin a new era as Test captain with the team ranked fourth-best in the world and Eoin Morgan’s side making an encouraging start to their latest attempt to win an International Cricket Council one-day tournament, participation has been in steady decline since the turn of the century. The latest statistics, released last year, showed that only 278,600 people in the UK regularly played cricket – almost half of what it was 20 years ago.
It is hard to be certain just how much of the blame for this can be pinned on the absence of the sport from terrestrial television, although it seems likely that most children these days would struggle to recognise many of England’s top-order batsmen if they walked past them on the street. That was not the case for previous generations, when even in the dire days of the 1990s players like Robin Smith and Graeme Hick were almost household names.
Meanwhile the sport faces a challenge from Major League Baseball, which will host a Baseball Battlegrounds event in Hyde Park on 4 July with a home-run derby and hopes to stage regular‑season games in Europe from 2019. “This represents an exciting statement of intent,” says MLB Europe’s managing director, Charlie Hill.
Perhaps, following on from the innovation of Twenty20, cricket’s future lies in the shorter form. The BBC’s cricket accounts on Twitter and Facebook have been heavily pushing their clips service since the start of the Champions Trophy and the figures are expected to increase as the tournament reaches its climax, especially if England progress past the group stages.
Just as with Saturday’s Champions League final between Juventus and Real Madrid, which BT Sport was obliged to stream for free on its YouTube channel despite having paid £1.2bn to renew its exclusive rights to football’s most prestigious club competition until 2021, there is a growing recognition among broadcasters that exposure is everything. In other words, what is the point of shelling out a fortune when no one is actually watching? The increasing trend for viewers to search out illegal streaming services as a way of evading constantly rising subscription fees shows the battle is already well under way.
While there appears little prospect of live Test cricket returning to terrestrial television for the time being, the divvying up of television rights for the new domestic T20 competition could be a game-changer. Sky’s deal, worth £280m, expires in 2019 and the ECB has made it clear that it would prefer to sell at least one of the five packages of rights to a terrestrial broadcaster, with another reserved exclusively for digital content on social‑media channels.
That would mean broadcasting around eight matches every season for free: enough, potentially, to attract some new fans to a competition that, it is hoped, will rival the Indian Premier League and Australia’s Big Bash. Whether the BBC is the vehicle to spearhead cricket’s brave new era is a question that will be debated ferociously in the corridors of power at Lord’s over the coming weeks.
• This article was amended on 4 June 2017 to correct the date and opponents in the last Test match to be televised live by the BBC
Eden Hazard has admitted he would consider an approach from Real Madrid and that he is yet to begin negotiations with Chelsea about extending his contract at Stamford Bridge.
The Belgium international still has three years to run on his £200,000-a-week contract at the Premier League champions but has been a longstanding target for Real, who won a third Champions League title in four seasons on Saturday night with victory over Juventus in Cardiff. Five years to the day since Hazard confirmed he would be signing for “the champion’s league winners” [sic], the forward, who will miss Belgium’s internationals against Czech Republic on Monday night and a World Cup qualifier against Estonia next week with an ankle injury, hinted for the first time he could leave Stamford Bridge.
The Belgian Football Association confirmed that Hazard fractured his right ankle during a training session in Tubize on Sunday, with the forward expected to be sidelined for six to eight weeks.
“Of course I would consider it if Madrid made an offer,” Hazard said. “I am keen to win trophies. It would be great to win the Champions League. But Chelsea’s goal is to win the Champions League as well. Honestly I do not know what will happen.
“I only know that I still have a contract with Chelsea for three seasons and that we just had an amazing 2016-17 campaign. We want to continue on this path and want to build on this in the Champions League. “I am feeling very well at Chelsea. But you never know what will happen. I have not met the board yet to discuss a new deal.” Denied the forthcoming internationals, he added: “I want to think about football as little as possible.”
Antonio Conte reiterated his desire to keep Hazard after he was instrumental in helping the Italian win the title in his first season in the Premier League but admitted that his future would depend on “the will of the player”.
“I think Eden is very happy to stay in Chelsea, to stay with us and work with us,” he said. “I can tell this. But the future? I haven’t a crystal ball, no. I think everything is possible. Everything is possible in football and not only for Eden but for every single player. You must understand that there are different wills to compare and then to take the decision.”
The Real Madrid manager, Zinedine Zidane, has previously expressed his interest in Hazard, who scored 16 goals in the league as Chelsea won a second title in three seasons. But any move could potentially cost Real a world record fee in excess of the €100m Manchester United paid to sign Paul Pogba last summer.
Rory McIlroy has allayed fears over the rib problem which has disrupted his year by confirming he will be fit to participate in the US Open next week.
McIlroy, who will be in pursuit of a fifth major title at Erin Hills, withdrew from recent events in the United States and Europe because of the injury which has troubled him since the start of 2017. That backdrop meant the questioning of whether or not he would feature in the US Open but McIlroywho has been boosted by recuperation work during a fortnight at the five-star Quinta do Lago resort in Portugal, will return to competitive action on Thursday next week.
This marks a boost to the tournament as well as the Northern Irishman himself, especially after news that Phil Mickelson plans to skip the second major of the year to attend his daughter’s high school graduation.
“I am ready for Erin Hills and looking forward to playing there for the first time,” McIlroy, 28, said. “The last few weeks have obviously been frustrating – I never like to miss events either on the PGA Tour or European Tour – but it was important I got back to a level of fitness where I felt like I could give myself the best possible chance at the US Open.
“As I have said many times before, majors will ultimately determine my golf career but I have had the rest of this busy season to consider as well.
“Every aspect of the facilities at Quinta do Lago has been first class. I can’t thank the people there enough for the way they have looked after me. I have been able to work on fitness and golf without any distractions at all.”
This was McIlroy’s second such visit to the Algarve venue, where first‑class short‑game facilities meant he could attend to that aspect of his play even before hitting full shots this weekend. In 2015, he spent time there after the ankle injury sustained when playing football which caused him to miss the Open. Against all odds, McIlroy was back in action a matter of weeks later at the US PGA Championship.
The US Open, which McIlroy won in 2011, marks the start of a busy spell for the world No2. His charity foundation successfully hosts the Irish Open, which will be held in Portstewart before the Open and US PGA take place. McIlroy is also the defending champion of the PGA Tour’s FedEx Cup, which finishes after the majors.
Injury has not proven the sole McIlroy story of 2017; he was married in late April and signed an equipment deal with TaylorMade, worth $100m, on the eve of The Players Championship the following month.
Mickelson’s surprise decision – his daughter Amanda will graduate in San Diego on the same day as the US Open’s first round – means he will have to wait at least another year to win the only major to thus far elude him. “We certainly understand and support that Phil’s family commitments are of paramount importance,” the tournament’s executive director, Mike Davis, said.
Alex Honnold has free-soloed El Capitan, completing a ropeless ascent of the legendary California cliff in just under four hours on Saturday morning, making the summit in time for breakfast.
The 31-year-old rock climber is the first to achieve the feat and indeed was regarded as the only climber capable of attempting it.
After completing the climb, Honnold tweeted: “So stoked to realize a life dream today”, including a photo of himself ascending along a wide crack near the top of the route.
“This is the ‘moon landing’ of free-soloing,” fellow climber Tommy Caldwell told National Geographic, which filmed the ascent for a documentary and first carried the news on its website.
Caldwell won fame outside the climbing world for his 2015 ascent with Kevin Jorgeson of El Capitan’s Dawn Wall route, setting a new standard of difficulty on the Yosemite valley cliff.
Free-soloing is the practice of climbing without a harness or rope, leaving zero margin for error. The route Honnold climbed, known as Freerider, is 2,900ft tall and near the top of the ratings system for difficulty, at 5.12d (6b UK).
At multiple points on the route, Honnold was obliged to make off-balance moves on widely spaced holds the width of raisins, with hundreds, and then thousands, of feet of air beneath him.
Honnold’s preparation for the exploit was the subject of rumor even as it was written off as impossibly daunting and risky. The Sacramento native, who has repeatedly shocked the climbing world with ropeless ascents of forbidding routes, had been discreetly training for the route for more than a year.
Honnold backed off of an earlier attempt at a free-solo, last November, after judging conditions to be suboptimal. He most recently climbed the route with a rope, and Caldwell as partner, on a Monday late last month.
“Alex was on fire,” Caldwell told National Geographic of the ascent. “I’ve never seen him climbing so well.”
Describing his preparations, Honnold said he had expanded his “comfort zone” until he was ready to commit to the route.
“Years ago, when I first mentally mapped out what it would mean to free-solo Freerider, there were half a dozen of pitches where I was like: ‘Oh, that’s a scary move and that’s a really scary sequence, and that little slab, and that traverse,’” Honnold told National Geographic.
“There were so many little sections where I thought ‘Ugh – cringe.’ But in the years since, I’ve pushed my comfort zone and made it bigger and bigger until these objectives that seemed totally crazy eventually fell within the realm of the possible.”
Honnold’s historic ascent began with the first hint of dawn at 5.32am on Saturday. He reached the top three hours and 56 minutes later, at 9.28am. Most roped ascents of El Capitan take hours, days, or longer.
The route was first ascended by a climber pulling only on stone – as opposed to pulling on gear drilled or cantilevered into the stone – in 1995, by the German climber Alex Huber. Huber wore a harness and was attached to ropes that would have caught him had he fallen. For much of its length, Freerider follows the Salathe Wall route, which was established in 1961 by the wall-climbing pioneer Royal Robbins, who died in March.
Honnold grew up in Sacramento and began climbing in the local training gym at age 11. He dropped out of the University of California at Berkeley, where he had been studying engineering, at age 19, to commit to his climbing career.
His previous exploits have been widely documented. One of his corporate sponsors, North Face, produced a 2014 film of his free-solo of the 2,500ft El Sendero Luminoso in Mexico. A National Geographic film crew captured Honnold’s revolutionary 2011 free-solo of the north-west face of Half Dome, in Yosemite, including a hair-raising moment of truth near the top in which Honnold struggled, uncharacteristically, to keep his cool.
As his stature in the climbing world and beyond has grown over the last decade, Honnold has maintained an itinerant lifestyle, living in a converted van and traveling the world. His training for Freerider took him to Europe, Morocco and China, according to National Geographic. The climbers who trained with him were sworn to secrecy about the project.
On his 20th Champions League night, Zinédine Zidane left with his second European Cup – as many as Pep Guardiola, José Mourinho or Sir Alex Ferguson. It was way after midnight by the time Sergio Ramos carried it out of Cardiff and Zidane had already departed, slipping away quietly, pausing only to embrace the Juventus manager, Massimiliano Allegri, as he went. As the Real Madrid players paraded the trophy around the pitch Zidane had stood aside with his wife, watching them, a fond look on his face. “The key is that they get on bloody brilliantly,” he insisted. Cristiano Ronaldo said: “He believes in us.”
Zidane had believed himself, too, quietly. Now everyone does. It has all happened so fast, history made swiftly. At the side of the pitch he was asked if he was the best manager in the world. Once that question might have been laughed at but in Cardiff it was legitimate. It will be asked again, too, even as there are those who resist, clinging to his own line that it is all about the players. “No,” Zidane said here. “Not that, no.”
Yet look what he and his team had just done, the men he had matched. His Madrid had become the first team since Arrigo Sacchi’s Milan, 27 years earlier to defend the European Cup.
No one had done it in the Champions League era. Zidane had done it in a season and a half. Ramos had called it a “date with history”, which it was, even for the biggest, most successful club of all. The next step is to mark a generation. It might sound strange to talk about this as the start of something when Madrid have won three European Cups in four years – Gareth Bale admitting “we’re getting used to this” – but that is how it felt. Perhaps because their manager is only just starting out. But what a start.
When he was presented, hastily pushed on to the stage in January 2016 as Rafa Benítez was dragged off it never to be spoken about again, Zidane was asked what constituted success. “Winning everything,” he replied. In less than two seasons he has won two European Cups, the European Super Cup, the Club World Cup and the league title – Madrid’s first in five years. They had waited 59 years to win a league and European Cup double. No one expected this, not even Zidane, the man who says he has a “star” somewhere, guiding him.
Zidane has empathised and encouraged rather than imposed
Even if the promise had been made a long time before, this was not the way he anticipated it. In the buildup to the final, the sports newspaper Marca recovered an old interview with Zidane, tagging it The Prophecy. Conducted in 2002, just after his wonderful volley in Glasgow had given Madrid their ninth European Cup, Zidane said he wanted to win their 10th, 11th and 12th as well. Eventually he has done so: it has taken 15 years, 17 months of them as manager.
A player in Glasgow, in Lisbon in 2014 he was Carlo Ancelotti’s assistant, while he led the team in Milan in 2016 and Cardiff this year. Zidane the manager has been more successful even than Zidane the player. Quietly does it. That has always been his way.
A former team-mate barely remembers him saying a word, describing him as shy, which is just one of the reasons why his success is unexpected. Even as assistant players did not see it, one member of the side who won in Lisbon admits. Yet the shyness was superficial and tranquillity has proven part of his success.
He might not say much but when Zidane does, people listen – perhaps precisely because he does not say much. It was always his personality, although get him alone and he is unexpectedly engaging, and now as a manager it is a conscious policy too: don’t complicate it, don’t overload. A member of the coaching staff says messages expressed to footballers should be limited to two clear concepts; beyond that you lose them. And as for long video sessions, forget it.
Zidane is familiar with footballers, attuned to their attitudes and concerns, especially at this elite level. He has made it about them, always; he wants them to be themselves, to feel important, but he has to guide them.
This is especially so when it comes to Ronaldo. No one has connected with him quite like this or convinced him to take a step back like this before, preparing and protecting him like this. Asked who would be the star if he had played with Ronaldo, Zidane replied: “I could play quite well but him for sure. He scores goals and that’s the hardest thing of all.” In Cardiff, Ronaldo scored two, as he has often of late. “The manager has been intelligent,” the forward said.
Zidane has empathised and encouraged rather than imposed. Benítez tried to stop Luka Modric playing those passes with the outside of the foot; Zidane offered up his admiration instead. But he has adjusted, too. Modric said after the final: “He tells us what we need to do in the defensive part and in the game to express ourselves, to keep the ball, to play for the team and to try to do our best. If he can see something that we can do on the pitch, he tells us.” He also explained how, at half-time, Zidane told his team to push higher up the pitch, demanding they be more aggressive. “[The turnaround] was definitely the mister,” Modric added.
That aggression is part of it, part of Zidane. There was always a presence about him, a quiet authority. It came with the player he was but also the man he is and the coach he wanted to be. The apparent timidity hid a toughness to which others testify, a competitiveness. A sense of honour, too – this is a man who publicly spoke out against Marine Le Pen, whom Jacques Chirac called a man of “heart and conviction”. As a footballer people said he was effortless but that was not a description he shared or welcomed. He saw himself as a competitor. “I’m not there to perform, I’m there to win,” he said.
After his retirement as a player, Zidane remained connected to Madrid. For everything he symbolised – the club’s president, Florentino Pérez, described him as the most emblematic signing he had ever made – he was useful to have around. However he was given roles that were largely empty and did not fulfil him – so he went his own way. He wanted to do something “real”. His word. He wanted to win.
Despite Saturday night’s showpiece in Cardiff, the season is not quite over yet. A round of internationals can be found tagged on almost apologetically next weekend, with England involved in a World Cup qualifier against Scotland in Glasgow on Saturday before a friendly in France takes place three days later.
A return to France will inevitably evoke memories of another tired tournament campaign coming to an even more cataclysmic end than usual with defeat by Iceland, though it might be more positive to reflect on how much has changed since then. When England take on Scotland it will be a year since Euro 2016 kicked off, with France overcoming a stubborn Romania through a late Dimitri Payet goal. Payet was still a West Ham player at the time, and when he scored his next goal a proud Slaven Bilic climbed on the desk in the ITV studio set to express his excitement.
On 10 June last year Roy Hodgson was still England manager, about to be frustrated the following day by a 1-1 draw with Russia, Wayne Rooney was still captain, Gareth Southgate was in charge of the under-21s and Sam Allardyce had last been seen dancing the night away in Marbella in celebration of Sunderland’s Premier League survival.
When it all began to unravel last summer things happened so fast it is hard to believe England are now on their second manager since the tournament ended, and even more ludicrous to consider that Allardyce has had three different employers in the same timeframe, doing as solid a job for Crystal Palace as he had done for Sunderland but crucially bungling the big opportunity in the middle. It seems odd that Allardyce is now ostensibly out of the game, his England potential untested, while a manager with a far less impressive club record is learning on the job, though at least Southgate’s enthusiasm for keynote speaking, pints of wine and making a large amount of money for just a few hours’ work is unlikely to prove his undoing.
Results might, but so far England have been making smooth progress. At the half way stage in World Cup qualifying they are four points clear at the top of Group F, the only side still unbeaten, with two of the trickier away trips – Slovakia and Slovenia– already out of the way. In theory, those games ought to prove the most difficult in what is far from the toughest of groups, though Scotland away will always be uncomfortable for England, even if Gordon Strachan’s side are in fourth place with two wins from five games. This could reasonably be regarded as Southgate’s biggest test to date and that should be borne in mind when evaluating the quiet yet determined way in which the manager has gone about his job.
Perhaps dropping Rooney was an easy decision, given his limited number of games for Manchester United and his relatively muted impact when played, though Southgate made sure he left the door open for the future. It is possible that Rooney might find some form with a run of games for a different club next season and should that happen there would be no obstacle to a return.
Southgate would simply do the sensible thing, just as he did when recalling and then keeping faith with Jermain Defoe. Despite the age of each player and the perceived closeness to retirement Defoe has been playing more games than Rooney and proving more effective on the pitch so he deserves to be in the squad.
At the other end of the age scale Southgate was right to stick to his guns over Marcus Rashford, who made it to Euro 2016 and does not need a return to the under-21s after establishing himself in United’s first team. José Mourinho did not want his player with the under-21s for a tournament in Poland anyway but, as Southgate says, the decision on internationals who could still be important parts of the England setup in 10 years’ time has to be that of the England manager. “Somebody has to protect him, somebody has to manage the development of a young player, and that has to be my call,” Southgate pointed out.
“Marcus is in the senior squad on merit, and has been for a year. His performances warrant him being in the senior squad. He could still have gone with the under-21s afterwards but that would not be right. He is a 19-year-old player who has had an exceptional season but by that point he will be close to 60 matches.”
Southgate is also correct in saying Rashford is not the only England forward in good form – Harry Kane, Jamie Vardy and Defoe have had strong seasons – and with Dele Alli, Adam Lallana and Raheem Sterling to choose from in the support positions Scotland must be quite worried about how to contain the English attacking threat.
With few exceptions, now that the obligation to use Rooney in the starting lineup has been sidestepped, England travel to Scotland with a young yet experienced squad, full of players who have been performing consistently well for their clubs. As such times managing a national team can look simple, and perhaps it is, though there is an art to keeping things simple and not being distracted by peripheral considerations. Allarcyce could tell Southgate all about that.
Most of the previous England managers would tell him what he already knows, that he will stand or fall by tournament performances rather than results in qualifying. Yet looking back at what happened to his immediate predecessor Southgate can take heart. At least he is likely to get to a tournament.
Antoine Griezmann has pledged his immediate future to Atlético Madrid, saying it would be a “dirty move” to leave the club after their transfer ban was upheld.
The France forward, 26, had been heavily linked with a potential world-record transfer to Manchester United, but any such move is off after the court of arbitration for sport last week upheld a ban on the club registering new players in this transfer window.
Speaking on Sunday morning during the French television programme Telefoot, Griezmann said: “The ruling of the CAS has come through. Atlético cannot recruit. With my sporting adviser, Eric Olhats, we decided to stay. It’s a hard time for the club. It would be a dirty move to leave now. We talked to the leaders and we will be back for next season.”
Atlético, along with their city rivals Real Madrid, were handed two-window transfer bans in January 2016 for multiple breaches of global football’s rules on the registration of under-18s and both clubs failed in their appeals to Fifa last September.
The two Spanish giants then took their cases to the CAS but, while Real’s ban was halved to one transfer window in December, Atlético announced on Thursday that the only reduction they had been given was regarding their financial penalty – down from £720,000 to £440,000.
That leaves them unable to sign new players until the January window, ending the club’s bid to bring in the Lyon striker Alexandre Lacazette, who was seen as a likely replacement for Griezmann.
Griezmann, who has a release clause in his contract set at €100m(£87m), scored 26 goals in 53 appearances for Atlético this past season.
A test opening of St Petersburg’s Zenit Arena in February treated 10,000 spectators to car racing, motorcycle tricks, dancers and a performing bear introduced as “Russia’s greatest hero”. But the patriotic ceremony failed to note that the stadium, in which Russia kick off the Confederations Cup in a fortnight in preparation for next year’s World Cup, was built mostly by immigrant workers from Asia, including from one of the world’s most repressive countries, North Korea.
A subcontractor who asked to remain anonymous said at least 190 “downtrodden” North Koreans had worked long hours with no days off between August and November last year and that one, a 47-year-old, had died on site. “These guys are afraid to speak to people. They don’t look at anyone. They’re like prisoners of war,” the subcontractor said.
An employee of a North Korean state company that brings workers to Russia told the Observer at a St Petersburg construction site that the men often worked long hours and had to give part of their pay to the regime in Pyongyang to “facilitate the country’s defence”, which includes its nuclear weapons programme.
Tens of thousands of North Korean labourers in Russia work in often “slave-like conditions”, according to Marzuki Darusman, the United Nations special rapporteur on human rights in the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. The companies that hire them “become complicit in an unacceptable system of forced labour”, he said.
Although a law passed in Russia in 2013 exempts employers connected with the World Cup from much of the country’s labour regulations, the North Koreans’ work at the stadium calls into question Fifa’s and Moscow’s commitment to human rights in the preparations for the tournament. In a blanket statement in response to questions about the use of North Korean labour, Fifa told the Observer it monitored conditions for migrant workers and would “continue to follow up any allegations made with regards to human rights violations”.
The St Petersburg construction committee said the authorities had conducted regular inspections to make sure conditions at the Zenit Arena site met Russian labour laws. But according to the subcontractor, North Koreans at the site worked at least 11 hours a day for $10-$15, seven days a week. They not only earned less than other migrant workers but lived in more cramped conditions, six to eight workers sharing one construction caravan.
The North Korean had died from a heart attack, the subcontractor said. He added that fatigue was a danger. “When you lose your reaction time due to fatigue, you can get hurt out of the blue, just like that.”
While Russia’s World Cup preparations have not had the same number of fatalities as those for the 2022 competition in Qatar, where hundreds of migrant workers have been killed during a huge construction boom, the Observer found in 2015 that at least five workers had died in accidents at the Zenit Arena. The subcontractor said another five had died between August and December 2016, including the North Korean.
Allegations of exploitation of North Korean workers are only the latest chapter in the spotted history of the Zenit Arena. When St Petersburg started planning a new stadium in 2006 for Zenit, the project was scheduled to finish by the end of 2008 and cost 6.7bn roubles (£92m at today’s exchange rate). As construction finally neared its end almost a decade later, the city’s vice-governor, Igor Albin, said the cost of the 68,000-seat venue had risen more than sixfold to 43bn roubles.
The actual cost is very likely to be much higher – owing to corruption, mismanagement and fluctuations in the exchange rate – making it one of the most expensive stadiums per seat in the world, according to Dmitry Sukharev, a former construction worker who heads the St Petersburg branch of the global anti-corruption NGO Transparency International. The St Petersburg construction committee did not respond to a request for comment about costs.
Despite the huge spending, Fifa reportedly found last year that the Zenit Arena’s removable pitch did not meet its shock absorption standards. Vladimir Putin is said to have told Fifa’s president, Gianni Infantino, that the stadium’s scandal-ridden construction was a “very sad story” and promised that all defects would be fixed. After the city fired the general contractor last July over delays and cost overruns, the vice-governor Albin managed to gather more than 4,000 workers at the site for a final push to finish it. That is when three companies brought in North Korean workers, the subcontractor said.
Pyongyang has been exporting manpower to Russia since Soviet times, including to logging camps in Russia’s far east. In testimony provided to the Observer, Choi Myong-bok, a refugee who escaped a logging camp in the Amur region in 2002, said the camp was “a living hell, it was an open-air prison, wardens watched us around the clock”. He said he lived in inhumane conditions in crowded construction caravans infested by lice and bedbugs and subsisted on melted snow, rice, salt and whatever mushrooms and berries he could gather.
Pyongyang earns up to $2.3bn (£1.8bn) a year sending workers such as Choi abroad, mostly to China and Russia. This is despite UN sanctions meant to deprive it of foreign currency for developing nuclear weapons. Moscow has recently signed agreements with Pyongyang to increase trade and employment of North Korean workers at agricultural and timber operations. According to the federal migration service, 30,000 North Koreans were estimated to be in Russia as of 2015.
Last year the two governments signed a treaty to extradite citizens who illegally enter either country, an agreement condemned by the UN as a mechanism to send North Korean workers who seek asylum back to face torture or death. But only a handful have sought asylum. “They all have families and if one runs away then it wouldn’t be good for his family, because it’s a communist order there, like we had under Stalin,” said Maria Trush, the administrator of a branch of Apart Hostel, a five-storey dormitory in an industrial zone outside St Petersburg close to where a North Korean subcontractor has an office.
Trush has been housing construction workers on and off for the past five years. She said the North Koreans typically worked “like ants”, starting at 8am and ending at 11pm. In the little free time they had, they watched North Korean state television or dubbed Soviet films.
Malsar Khuseinov, the director of Soyuz-Stroi, a construction company that employs 200 North Koreans, said workers were allowed to “extend the work day as much as they need” to meet a deadline. Pyongyang “commands and controls them” through “captains” on the ground, he said. “They have the right kind of discipline,” he said, adding that it was “out of the question” that any of them would run away.
Another construction firm, Dalpiterstroi, employed 60 North Koreans at the Zenit Arena, the company’s PR and advertising director, Anna Bochenkova, said. But they worked eight, not 11, hours a day, and she denied allegations of low pay and overcrowded construction caravans. “They work in good conditions with standard pay, like all workers on St Petersburg construction sites, at market price, and have good living conditions,” she said.
Bochenkova said she could not comment on the North Korean worker who died but denied it could have been caused by overwork. “A person can die from a heart attack just walking down the street anywhere in the world,” she said.
On a recent night in the suburb of Shushary, this reporter found a two-storey, metal-sided dormitory where North Korean workers live in a large cluster of similar housing. A man preparing food in the small, low kitchen immediately made a call on his cellphone and within minutes a well-dressed man who gave his name only as Choi arrived. He said he was a translator for the North Korean state company that brings workers to Russia.
Thirty-two men lived in the Shushary dormitory, he said, and another 100 were working in the suburb of Pargolovo. A North Korean fell to his death from a nine-storey building there in June, Choi confirmed. The men are sent to Russia for five years, work 12 hours a day with two hours for lunch, rest on weekends, and make 50,000-60,000 roubles a month (£685-£825), of which they give 5%-10% to the Pyongyang government, he said.
Nearby, a group of North Korean workers were still pouring concrete on the 22nd storey of a residential tower at 10.30pm. When asked, one of them at the base of the tower said he made 50,000 to 60,000 roubles a month. A security guard quickly ended the conversation.
The Observer also ran into Choi and another worker on a muddy track between the dormitories and the building sites. The worker said he started each day around 8.30am or 9am and carried on until 7pm or 8pm, with two hours for lunch. That day, a delayed batch of concrete had pushed work later, he said. “I came to see this city, which is beautiful and famous around the world,” he said, adding that he had worked in Russia since 2014.
Asked how much he made, he also said 50,000 to 60,000 roubles a month. The conversation was cut short by security guards who briefly detained this reporter in a construction trailer.
The Norwegian football magazine Josimar recently found another group of about 100 North Koreans who were living in construction caravans and working long hours at another Dalpiterstroi site, surrounded by barbed wire and guards with dogs.
In reality, the workers are likely to make far less than the figures they cite as the Pyongyang regime takes 30%-50% of their income, according to Andrei Lankov, a North Korea expert. Nevertheless, working abroad was one of the few ways for North Koreans to improve their financial situation, he added.
While there are many exceptions to the standard 40-hour week stipulated in Russia’s labour code, working at least 10 hours a day for most of five years, like the North Koreans said they do, would violate the law, two lawyers told this newspaper.
Last week it emerged that Infantino had admitted that Fifa was aware of the issues. In a letter dated 22 May to Nordic FA presidents who had raised the issue, he said: “Fifa is aware of and firmly condemns the often appalling labour conditions under which North Korean workers are employed in various countries around the world.” He acknowledged that an inspection team for Fifa’s decent work monitoring system, set up to address concerns about human rights abuses, did find “strong evidence for the presence of North Korean workers on the construction site in St Petersburg” on a visit in November. “The issues found were subsequently raised with the respective company and with the general contractor,” Infantino wrote. Fifa said a further inspection in March found no more North Koreans working at the site.
According to Svetlana Gannushkina, a veteran migrant rights activist who helps North Korean refugees, the authorities rarely raise any questions about these workers. “The rights of people working on our territory should be respected, no matter who their overlords are, but this isn’t done,” she said. “It’s an area of complete lawlessness.”
Gianluigi Buffon stood with his hands on his hips, staring vacantly into the distance and not moving for what felt like an age. Behind him the Real Madrid supporters were raucously celebrating their third goal and their second in the space of three minutes, flooring Juventus and leaving Buffon looking like a man who knew that the dream was over long before the clock had ticked down.
This was anything but the “perfect finale” Buffon had talked about 24 hours earlier, when the 39-year-old expressed his hope that he would get his hands on the only major trophy to elude him in a distinguished career that has spanned three decades. Buffon has won eight Serie A titles, a World Cup in 2006 and represented Italy 168 times, yet there is no Champions League winners medal in his trophy cabinet and, realistically, probably never will be.
It was an evening that brought with it an uncomfortable sense of deja vu for Buffon and Juventus, who have now lost seven of their nine European Cup finals and could be forgiven for fearing the worst whenever they get to this stage of the competition. Buffon has appeared in three of those showpieces and the latest ended in humiliating fashion as Real Madrid demonstrated once again why they are the most accomplished team in Europe by a distance.
In one respect Buffon was proved right. Asked beforehand whether this would come down to a contest between himself and Cristiano Ronaldo, the Juventus goalkeeper replied: “I’m not so conceited as to say that, I would never put myself on the same pedestal as Cristiano Ronaldo. My role is to defend; we are complete opposites. He is able to determine the outcome of a game more than me.”
That was certainly the case as Ronaldo struck Madrid’s first goal and inflicted further damage with his second. Casemiro and Marco Asensio got the other Madrid goals on a night when Buffon was beaten four times, twice via deflections. It was that kind of occasion for the veteran goalkeeper and his team-mates, who totally lost their way in the second half as Luka Modric and Toni Kroos took control of midfield and Ronaldo does what he does best.
What a transformation from the opening 45 minutes, when Juventus took the game to Madrid, attacking with conviction and scoring a goal worthy of winning the Champions League, let alone merely equalising in a final.
Unfortunately for Mario Mandzukic, the spectacular overhead kick that he speared beyond Keylor Navas, the Madrid keeper, at the end of a lovely move involving Gonzalo Higuaín and Alex Sandro, brought only ephemeral joy. Juventus could not sustain that high-tempo approach after the interval.
Paulo Dybala, who scored twice in the quarter-final win over Barcelona and is so highly regarded, never imposed himself on the game and was withdrawn.
Higuaín, other than the assist for Mandzukic’s goal, carried little threat, while the influence of Sami Khedira and Miralem Pjanic, who was also substituted in the second half after picking up an injury, started to wane.
The sight of Juan Cuadrado receiving a red card in the 84th minute for a second bookable offence rather summed up the second half. It was a poor decision from the officials, with Sergio Ramos not for the first time in his career guilty of play-acting, yet by that stage everything Juventus tried to do seemed to be going wrong.
The solid defensive base on which this Champions League campaign has been built evaporated. Juventus conceded more times in 90 minutes against Madrid than they did in the previous 12 matches in the competition put together as the Old Lady’s experienced back-line started to look their age.
It was impossible not to feel some sympathy for Buffon, who trudged across with the rest of the players to applaud the Juventus supporters that had stayed behind as Sergio Ramos hoisted the European Cup into the Cardiff sky. Buffon has been an extraordinary servant to Juve, the club he joined for a world record €51m in 2001 to replace Edwin van der Sar, and it will be a strange day when someone else is wearing that No1 jersey for the club that have dominated Italian football for the past six seasons.
It feels like he has been around forever. When Buffon made his debut as a professional footballer in 1995, George Weah and Roberto Baggio were lining up for Milan against him, two legends of the game who are now in their fifties. He has clocked up more than 1,000 games since, including 108 appearances in the Champions League, and is the only player in this Juventus squad to also have featured in the defeat against Milan on penalties in the 2003 final.
Although Massimiliano Allegri left the door open to the possibility of Buffon trying again next season, with the Juventus manager refusing to accept the idea that several players in his team have reached the end of a cycle and that it is time to usher in a new era, age and history appear to be against the Italian goalkeeper. Perhaps that was going through his mind when he stood alone on his penalty area after Madrid’s third goal.
I’ve always wondered why anyone would want to race cars or motorbikes on the road. A normal, narrow country road lined with brick walls, hedges, telegraph poles and iron gates; road furniture as it’s known in racing circles. That need for speed is something I’ve experienced both on bikes and in cars, but I’ve always opted for the “soft” option of a purpose-built track with width and run-off areas.
During two decades of working in motor sport, I’ve been gripped by road racing – the countless laps of on-board footage, the absolute speed and the imminent danger. I’ve also been lucky to build great friendships with riders like John McGuinness, the legendary Isle of Man TT racer, and others who have turned their backs on the soft option to embrace the road.
But until April, I’d never actually been to a road race. So I was a novice spectator at the Cookstown 100 – a 2.1-mile circuit in County Tyrone that forms one date of a 10-race season with five tracks each side of the border.  I’d heard about three female riders – Melissa Kennedy, Veronika Hankocyova and Yvonne Montgomery – who are at the heart of this male-dominated sport and when the BBC asked me to do a fly-on-the-wall on how and why they do it, I jumped at the chance.
Set just outside Cookstown, the paddock is as grassroots as you can get. It was essentially a field of dogs, vans, tents and plenty of bikes, but you’re immediately struck by the overwhelming friendliness and family vibe that comes from this hardened bunch of riders. The place is lit by smiles and I instantly felt adopted. For the weekend I was part of the gang. They let me in, each family, each tent holding its own story.
One of the starkest aspects was seeing up close how, as amateurs, these riders have to fund everything themselves and how in many cases it takes over their lives. They all work full-time and rely on good-natured bosses to take the odd extra Friday off to go racing. Some bosses get it, some don’t, and as a result not everyone gets to race every weekend.
Pretty much all their cash goes into it. Take Yvonne. She won’t get her nails done because that equates to a can of fuel. It’s those kinds of choices that these riders are making to follow their passion. But in truth, it turned out that this was probably the least extraordinary thing about Yvonne.
When I met her, she was in her leathers waiting for the call for her class. She races both 400cc and 600cc bikes and her crew consists of one friend. Incredibly, she hadn’t turned a wheel on a bike until she was 47, only taking it up following the break-up of her marriage.  Within a year she was racing. That was 13 years ago and she celebrates her 60th birthday in August. I know she won’t mind me headlining this; she’s adamant that as you get older you should do more because you’re running out of time. It’s hard to argue with that.
Not that you could ever have a cross word with Yvonne, her soft Irish lilt is as enchanting as her personality. “I’m addicted,” she says. She’s also the happiest she has ever been.
Yvonne reminds me of someone: Valentino Rossi. The nine-times world champion who is also a racing addict. He loves winning. It’s what he lives for. He and Yvonne are leagues apart in many ways and yet identical when it comes to the force that drives them. To race any bike, in any discipline, you have to be passionate and want to do it.
That passion is evident in the paddock at Cookstown. It couldn’t be more different from the MotoGP set-up of Mugello in the rolling Tuscan hills when it comes to backdrop and facilities, but they are equally matched on desire and the love of racing. One is the sharp end, dripping in sponsor money, flashy hospitality and top-notch technology. The other is as raw as racing can be.
Veronika drives her truck from her home in Prague with her fiance, Indi, so that they can both partake. They’ve fallen in love with Northern Ireland and made it their second home. Like the rest of the field, their lives are dominated by the need to get to these races. The 32-year‑old Veronika tells me they feel most alive when they are racing and despite being together for nearly a decade, it keeps them too busy to get married.
But the dangers of road racing are ever-present and the fragility of flying down country lanes at speeds of up to 200mph is real here. Five years earlier at this same event Indi broke his back in a crash. We chat as Veronika watches him qualify and she is more terrified looking on than racing herself. I can understand from the point of it being beyond her control. I’ve seen the same nerves throughout the World Superbike and MotoGP paddock from mums, wives and girlfriends the world over.
I ask Melissa, a 25-year-old from just outside Enniskillen in the west of Northern Ireland, if it’s selfish. She nods. Her mum, Letitia, has kittens every time she goes out. I feel for Letitia when Melissa races her Moto3 bike, she is 4ft 11in and the rest of the field dwarf her in size and strength. But she is a demon when the visor comes down. I find myself wanting her to do well. This is Melissa’s MotoGP; this is her chance to do what she loves. She gets that, her family does too and that’s what matters to her.
Personally, I still can’t totally understand why they do it. I couldn’t. But I have a huge respect for these riders. They take dedication to another level. They operate under the most incredible pressures on the mind and body, making big sacrifices to ensure they can get back on the bike and do it all over again the following week.
In a world where things are becoming increasingly sanitised, I’m heartened that this freedom of choice can still happen despite the danger. Of course it’s dangerous, all motor sport is, but road racing comes with its own special danger. The roads are narrow and the walls are close, but equally this provides the thrill for those who choose to take part and those lucky enough to watch them in action.
Suzi Perry’s Queens of the Road will be shown on Monday at 7.30pm on BBC One
There is no better time for an honest review than after a flawed victory. England have a win under their belts against Bangladesh and by 6pm on Thursday it was all reassuringly straightforward. But earlier there had been disconcerting moments and some of them took place before the match began.
The first ones came with the teamsheet. Might Jake Ball become the new Gary Ballance? These two are very worthy cricketers. But in the 2015 World Cup the selection of an out-of-form Ballance for England’s first match came to personify the insecure safety-first instincts that were to bedevil the side throughout that (much longer) campaign.
At the Oval the pitch was brown, true and slow. There was not much there for the pace bowlers, yet England chose five of them with Ball preferred to Adil Rashid. This hinted at a lack of self-belief, which, to be fair, has not been a characteristic of Eoin Morgan’s clear-sighted regime since that calamitous World Cup. This was a surprise since Rashid had been selected for 41 of England’s past 44 ODI matches. The conditions demanded variety rather than a battery of five right-handed pace bowlers plus Moeen Ali. For England’s most important match in 45 ODIs, they declined to pick their wrist-spinner. (Mind you, Bangladesh were equally cautious when deciding to omit their specialist spinner, Mehedi Hasan, who gave England such a roasting in two Tests in the winter)
So this suggested that England do not have absolute faith in Rashid, who, according to his self-effacing spin partner, Moeen, “has many more variations” and is therefore a more likely wicket-taker. Morgan keeps telling us that he is always chasing wickets: for the record Moeen has 47 in 55 matches, Rashid 63 in 46.
However, the preference for Ball rather than Rashid probably reflected a greater lack of faith in the fitness of some of England’s bowlers, which was subsequently justified. Ben Stokes has had all the attention and out of necessity he was compelled to propel seven overs on Thursday. But Chris Woakes, who had missed England’s last two ODIs, could manage just two before his left side was strained, the only two overs he will bowl in the Champions Trophy. Was Woakes compensating in his delivery stride because of his recent thigh problem? We will never know. Now Ball may become a legitimate selection.
Perhaps there has been an element of wish fulfilment in England’s assessment of the fitness of Stokes and Woakes. They are England’s engine room, two all-rounders near their peak; vital players long since inked into the best side. Why would you not be desperate for them to play?
This yearning stretches to Andrew Strauss, England’s cricket director, who gave this pair permission for an extended stay in the Indian Premier League. They were first choices in their teams, unlike Morgan or Jason Roy, so they were kept busy. Both are adamant that the Indian experience has enhanced them as cricketers. But both are battling with their bodies. Is that merely an unlucky coincidence? Something for Strauss to ponder.
That wish fulfilment may also extend to Roy, who has reached double figures once (when scoring 20 against Ireland at Lord’s) in six ODIs this summer. Morgan’s faith in Roy is admirable and almost absolute – he has hinted that he would keep picking the Surrey opener in this tournament come what may. However, such faith cannot last indefinitely; soon it may border on superstition.
To replace Roy with Jonny Bairstow (albeit an inexperienced opener) would not be another Ballance moment betraying a loss of faith in England’s oft-quoted positive approach. Bairstow may have a different technique to Roy but his approach is similar. To use a couple of old-fashioned adjectives, seldom used now, he is strong rather than stable.
Against better attacks than that of Bangladesh, England might need a full quota of batsmen as well as the bowlers most likely to conjure up some wickets on true tracks. In tournament cricket the short-term goals prevail; showing the faith and being consistent by backing your chosen men has to give way to picking the bloke likely to score the most runs at some point. Roy’s rope may not extend beyond the New Zealand game if he remains in his trough.
Still, England produced a rather better performance than when they last encountered Bangladesh in an ICC tournament in Adelaide (defeat by 15 runs and an early flight home in 2015). It will be trickier in Cardiff on Tuesday against the Kiwis. Surely they were the Antipodeans at Edgbaston who were denied victory by the rain on Friday.
New Zealand always seem undaunted when playing against their noisy neighbours and they are unlikely to be overawed by the prospect of facing England. Against Australia, they tossed in Luke Ronchi, a wildcard, as an opening batsman; Kane Williamson became the tournament’s second centurion after Joe Root – the cream is already coming to the surface – and in a brief period in the field their trio of pace bowlers demonstrated the benefits of bowling with genuine hostility at the start. They are not compromising their modern, aggressive approach.
The Edgbaston no result means that one more victory for England in Group A – either against the Kiwis or Australia on Saturday – will allow Morgan’s side a passage into the semi‑finals.
In the spring of 2005, the first postcards arrived. “They’ll be ready,” the cards read, “are you?” Soon after, wristbands came, sent by special delivery. They had “Power of Four” written on them, which, it turned out, was the official motto of the 2005 British & Irish Lions tour. It was all part of Clive Woodward’s grand plan. Woodward had spent 12 months scheming and made “no apologies for believing this is the best-prepared tour in the history of Lions rugby”.
The last card he sent out had “What The Fuck Is Going On?” written on the front, and “if you feel like this in any meeting, hold up the card …” overleaf. It turned out to be the most useful of the lot. Within four months, Woodward’s hard-earned reputation was shot, and the Lions had been whitewashed for the first time in five tours.
Between them, Ian McGeechan and Warren Gatland have spent a lot of time in the past 12 years unpicking the mistakes Woodward made and putting the Lions back together again. Even now, Gatland says the Lions mission in New Zealand this summer is “to go there and mend some stuff from 2005”, that he wants his squad “to engage with the community, to play some good rugby, to get the public on our side, and to be great tourists”. All things they failed to do 12 years ago.
Woodward picked 44 players and 28 support staff, including 10 coaches, a legal adviser, a former referee and, of course, Alastair Campbell as his head of media relations. “His attention to detail was remorseless,” said Gareth Thomas. The players were given iPods loaded with specially chosen songs, including the Lions’ own new anthem. Woodward expected everyone to learn the words by the time they arrived in New Zealand. McGeechan, an assistant coach, felt Woodward had overlooked one thing. “I kept asking Clive when we were going to talk rugby, when we were going to sit down to say: ‘This is how we are going to beat the All Blacks.’”
First, the Lions had to play Argentina, in a match arranged to help cover the £10m cost of the tour. The training sessions for the game were interrupted by a series of classes and seminars. “We were working on our questionable lineouts,” recalled Lewis Moody. “The session was interrupted midway through because we had to attend a meeting with Alastair Campbell, to discuss how to deal with the media. So 48 hours before taking on the Pumas an unprepared team working desperately hard to perfect their set-piece are told to attend media studies.”
There was also a team-building class, in which the squad co-operated on a painting. “There was a fair amount of grumbling,” Campbell wrote in his dairy, “but when the whole thing was done, we had painted a giant mural with the logo and a sense of what we wanted the tour to be. It was actually pretty breathtaking.” He was impressed. Donncha O’Callaghan wasn’t. “It was basically colour by numbers. It did nothing for me. I had to draw a rhino in my corner of the canvas and I stuck a cigarette in his mouth.” There are, O’Callaghan felt, two ways to bond a new group of players. Neither involved murals. “Let them kick the shit out of each other on the training field” or “let them go out on the piss for a night”.
Eddie O’Sullivan thought the tour already felt like a “three-ring circus”. McGeechan was more diplomatic. He described it as “a brave attempt to update the Lions”. Either way, everyone agreed with Moody’s verdict after the Lions had drawn with Argentina, 25-25 as Jonny Wilkinson kicked a penalty in the final minute. “I trudged off the pitch, with three Tests looming against an All Black side that were on fire,” Moody wrote. “I couldn’t help but think: ‘Fuck, this is going to be difficult’.”
The Lions won their first game of the tour, against Bay of Plenty, but lost Lawrence Dallaglio, who flew home injured. He was not the only player who felt his tour was over already. “Some guys would have a hard job playing themselves off the team, I didn’t have that luxury,” wrote Ronan O’Gara. By half-time, O’Gara was sure his tour was done. “Why? Because I missed three tackles.” O’Gara suspected Woodward had made up his mind about the team long before they got to New Zealand. His poor performance in the opening half made it easy to leave the Irish fly-half out.
Woodward had said there was “no way you can dissect a tour party into two separate groups”. But that was exactly what he did. “This has never been done before,” Brian O’Driscoll wrote in his diary. “Soon enough we’ll find out why.” The midweek team, who were being coached by McGeechan, adopted Travis’s Driftwood as their own anthem – “We’re driftwood, floating with the Lions, we only play on Tuesdays, Tuesdays”.
On 11 June, the Lions lost to the New Zealand Maori 19-13. It was Shane Williams’s first game of the tour. “I got absolutely battered,” Williams wrote. “I can remember thinking afterwards: ‘My God, I hope all the games aren’t as physical as this.’” Panic began to set in. The coaches picked “the guts of the Saturday team” to play again against Wellington the following Wednesday. “After that,” O’Callaghan wrote, “it was obvious to a lot of fellas that the XV for the first Test was already picked, probably before we’d even left home.”
In the run-up to the first Test, the midweek players found they were locked out of the video analysis room. “What did they think we were going to do? Sell our secrets to the All Blacks?” O’Callaghan asked. “There was an element of paranoia about the place that was uncomfortable.” The Lions surrounded their training ground with an 8ft tall fence. Before one session, they had their security remove a group of schoolchildren from the ground. “We came across as arrogant,” McGeechan thought, “and it made the All Blacks and the country desperate for us to get beaten.”
Meanwhile, Williams felt there were “too many chiefs”. The coaches kept “chopping and changing from one session to the next, with different people giving us different messages”. Wales had won the Grand Slam that spring, playing a very different way to the England team which had won the World Cup two years earlier, the difference epitomised in their two fly-halves, Stephen Jones and Wilkinson. “I had just won a Grand Slam with Wales and wanted to attack and play from anywhere,” Jones wrote, “while Jonny had won a World Cup with England by playing mistake-free rugby and to the strengths of a great pack.”
Unable to pick one or the other, the coaches chose both, Jones at fly-half and Wilkinson at inside centre. Which meant leaving out Gavin Henson. According to Thomas, Campbell made a hamfisted attempt to manage the fall-out. He “distributed misleading quotes” from Henson, and arranged “to have a hidden photographer take shots of Clive and Gav, without their knowledge, to give the errant impression that all was well.” Campbell, Thomas said, “had been parachuted in from a world with different parameters and principles” and “struggled with the nuances of a rugby dressing room”.
The coaches’ paranoia peaked three days before the first Test, when they convinced themselves that they should junk all the team’s lineout calls because they were worried about spies. The upshot, Matt Dawson recalled, was that “we went into the game with the most complex set of calls I have ever known, so complex that the players didn’t understand them. Two days before the first Test on supposedly the best organised of all Lions tours, no one knew where the ball was going.”
One thing the Lions had nailed down was how to handle the haka. Woodward had sought advice on it from a Maori elder. “We spread out in a half-moon shape, with me out front as the leader and the youngest member, Dwayne Peel, standing behind me,” recalled Brian O’Driscoll. “When the haka ends, I pull up some grass and throw it at them, as if pulling the ground from underneath their feet.” Dawson, a substitute that day, remembered “the All Blacks look at us with an expression that does not suggest gratitude at the respect we believe we have just paid to their heritage”.
Forty seconds into the match, O’Driscoll charged into a ruck. The All Blacks’ hooker, Keven Mealamu, grabbed his left leg and the All Blacks captain, Tana Umaga, came in from the right. Together they hoisted O’Driscoll up and tipped him over. O’Driscoll stuck out an arm to break his fall, and broke his shoulder too. Eleven minutes later, Paul O’Connell, pumped up on a specially brewed energy drink, was sent to the sin-bin, and seven minutes after that Richard Hill wrecked his anterior cruciate ligament, and was carried off to join O’Driscoll. The game soon became what Thomas called “the damage limitation exercise from hell”.
“The conditions were atrocious,” wrote Jason Robinson, “the rain was falling horizontally and it was blowing a gale.” Thomas was “as cold as I have ever been on a rugby field. My hands were numb and I had a single thought frozen in my brain: ‘Let’s get off here, and assess where we are.’” Inside, Wilkinson was desperate. “We are cannon fodder. It’s helpless. I get so frustrated and very fired up. I start looking for big hits everywhere, whether they are on or not, to try and change the game. I don’t know how else we are going to achieve anything.” It was the first time he had ever felt so helpless on a rugby field.
The Lions lost 21-3. In the aftermath, all anyone wanted to talk about was the injury to O’Driscoll. The Lions liked it that way. Campbell showed reporters video footage of the incident in slow-mo. The citing officer decided that Mealamu and Umaga had done nothing wrong, but did ban Danny Grewcock for biting Mealamu. “From this point to the end of the trip there is no other topic of conversation than how Brian was treated and how those responsible got away with it,” Dawson said. “Every day we are briefed on what we should and should not say. It becomes all encompassing and a distraction.”
McGeechan felt the Lions “seemed to lose the moral high ground in the dispute when Campbell came out with a stream of statements and interviews”.
O’Driscoll gave a press conference early the next morning. “I don’t possess the equanimity to take a pounding like that and say nothing, to put it down as part of the game. Because it isn’t,” he wrote. “I describe it as deliberate foul play, dangerous, a cheap shot.” His team-mates agreed. “It was awful, unforgiveable, and duly swept under the carpet,” Thomas wrote. “It was one of the worst home-town decisions I have ever seen.”
Thomas took over as captain. He felt the Lions were being derided “as a bunch of spineless whingers”, and that Woodward’s decision to bring along a refereeing consultant and a legal adviser had “spawned accusations of arrogance”. Campbell had put up a “war wall” of negative cuttings to motivate the players. But after three days there the wall was overflowing and was taken down. Under all the pressure, Thomas was worried “the natural cracks and fissures” were starting to show. And the fact each player had his own room was making it worse.
“Their rooms became bunkers almost,” wrote O’Sullivan. Before the tour, the joke had been that the one problem the Lions would not suffer from was loneliness. But Paul O’Connell found it to be one of the loneliest experiences of his career. He holed up on his own, and even started smoking. “Until that tour I hadn’t smoked one in years. I was brushing my teeth six or seven times a day: I wanted to brush away the smell of smoke. I wasn’t getting a whole lot out of the tour and I remember thinking there might be one benefit when it was over. At least I might have white teeth by the end of this fucking trip.”
Morale flatlined when Woodward allowed Campbell to give a team talk. “For reasons known only to Alastair, he thinks it is a good idea to compare our tour of duty with that of soldiers in Iraq,” recalled Dawson. “He suggests we lack desire and tries to use the example of a theatre of war to put our situation into perspective.” As O’Connell recalled it, Campbell “told us that in every campaign and every crisis, there comes a moment when the people in the thick of it realise they need to dig deep” but that “he didn’t get that feeling looking at us. He didn’t have the sense that we were fighting back.”
“Everyone’s expression is one of disbelief. I am getting angry inside,” Dawson wrote. “At the end we are bristling.” According to O’Sullivan: “You could have heard a pin drop. The speech was lunacy.” The next morning, O’Connell was still stewing on it. “I decided what I was going to do when the session was over: find Alastair Campbell and knock him out. There wouldn’t be any need for questions or explanations. Everyone would know what it was for.”
Thomas tried to bring the team together in his own way. They called him Captain Clean Off. As in clean off his head. “A lot of the guys from other countries,” Williams reckoned, “probably hadn’t experienced leadership like it in their lives.”
During one particularly bleak training session the day before the second Test, Thomas called everyone into a huddle. “Just got two words to sum up our situation at present: ‘Don’t fucking panic,”” he said. He waited a beat, then realised, “‘Shit, that’s three isn’t it?’” “Unfortunately,” Thomas put it, “I also lost count of the score the following day.”
He scored the first try of the second Test, and, as Williams put it, “for a couple of minutes, we felt that they were beatable”. The All Blacks won 48-18. “It didn’t feel like a collective loss,” wrote O’Callaghan. “Nobody was thinking about the giant painting back at the Vale of Glamorgan and the unity it was supposed to bring.” Thomas “went postal” and launched himself into “a post-match bender which resulted in a two-day hangover”.
The midweek team, meanwhile, won every game. But their success only seemed to make everything worse. Thomas heard the midweek players “were resentful” that they had not been rewarded with a shot in the Test series. O’Callaghan pointedly observed that there was “a feeling of unity and togetherness in our group” which “was reflected in the results”.
McGeechan felt that the Lions had “become something we were not”. Moody agreed. “Clive treated it like a business, a well-oiled machine,” he wrote, “but old school methods, at least to a degree, are essential on a Lions tour.”
Not everyone bought that. O’Sullivan, who had one eye on the top job for the 2009 tour, was sick of hearing about it. “The Midweek Massive was a myth,” reckoned O’Sullivan. “Bullshit. They were beating teams that amounted to little more than a Kathy Berry XV and trying to hold it up as some kind of higher calling than being part of the Test side. To me, this became more toxic as the tour went on. I said it to people. The Wednesday side would beat the likes of Manawatu by 103 points and celebrate it as some kind of Herculean deed.”
It was certainly nearer to it than anything the Test team managed. They lost the last game 38-19. “In the end,” Moody reckoned, “I felt as if we were a pub team getting hammered.”
Woodward gave a bizarre final press conference, in which he said “it’s actually been a successful tour, and has been great experience”. After that, the team “left New Zealand in drips and drabs, rather than as a team,” wrote Thomas. “There were no heartfelt goodbyes, or reaffirmations of faith.” But there was, Williams wrote, “a real sense of relief that the tour was over”.
Each man had his own opinion about what had gone wrong. “I don’t think we ever stood a chance,” thought Dawson. Williams wrote: “We had no answer for what they threw at us, and that was not only a shedload of skill and physicality, but a pride I had never previously encountered. There was no way they were going to allow a British & Irish Lions team to come to their territory and win.”
O’Connell was closest to the mark when he said “we came across an excellent side and we never became the team we needed to be”. The one thing everyone agreed on was that, as Thomas put it, “all the wristbands and postcards in the world couldn’t prepare us for the intensity of it”.
Predators coach Peter Laviolette heard all the questions and criticism of Pekka Rinne after the goaltender’s struggles in the Stanley Cup Final in Pittsburgh. Well, Laviolette never thought of switching goalies.
A change of scenery helped Rinne and all his Nashville teammates as they dominated once again on their own ice for the biggest piece of franchise history yet.
A victory in the Stanley Cup final.
Roman Josi and Frederick Gaudreau scored 42 seconds apart in the second period, and the Predators beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 5-1 Saturday night to pull within 2-1 in the best-of-seven series. Rinne started and made 27 saves against a Pittsburgh team that continued to struggle on the power play and lacked the same zip they had in winning the first two games at home.
“There was no decision,” Laviolette said of changing goalies. “He was terrific. I said that after Game 2. He’s been the backbone for our team. He’s been excellent. His game tonight was rock solid.”
PK Subban and Sidney Crosby also exchanged words in third period. Afterwards the Predators star revealed the reasons why. “He told me my breath smelled, but I mean, I don’t know, I used Listerine before the game,” Subban told NBC’s Pierre McGuire after the game. “So I don’t know what he’s talking about.”
The Predators capped the biggest party in Nashville history with a victory that gave thousands of fans inside and outside of the arena reason to celebrate. Country star Keith Urban and wife, actress Nicole Kidman, were high-fiving inside the arena and they had plenty of company. Credit Rinne for coming through with a stingy performance and helping the Predators improve to 8-1 at home this postseason.
The 6-foot-5 Finn looked so shaky in the first two games, giving up eight goals on just 36 shots. Laviolette benched him in the third period of Game 2 when Rinne gave up three goals in the first 3:28 of a 4-1 loss.
Rinne said he changed nothing and knew he was playing all the time. Nashville fans did their best to lift his spirits by chanting his name in pre-game warm-ups.
“Collectively we came into the locker room, and we were telling each other we’ve never seen anything like that,” Rinne said.
Josi also had two assists. James Neal, Craig Smith and Mattias Ekholm also scored for Nashville as the Predators worked out some frustration against the Pens.
“Like our team has done the whole playoffs against Chicago, St. Louis, Anaheim, we showed really good composure,” said Subban, who had predicted a win in Game 3. “We’re going to take that into the next game.”
Game 4 is Monday night.
Pittsburgh coach Mike Sullivan said he thought his Penguins gave up a couple of easy goals.
“We’re disappointed we didn’t get the result, but we also understand that this is a series,” Sullivan said. “Our guys, they’ve been through this. They can draw on their experience. We’re not going to let this certainly get us down. We’re going to learn from it, move by it and get ready for the next game.”
Crosby did not have a shot on goal, and neither did Evgeni Malkin.
“Hopefully a game like this is something that’s a hard lesson,” Crosby said. “But we’ve got to make sure we’re better.”
Jake Guentzel scored his 13th goal this postseason and fourth of this series for Pittsburgh and now is one off Dino Ciccarelli’s rookie record of 14 in 1981 for Minnesota. Guentzel, already with two game-winning goals in the series, put the Penguins up 1-0 on their second shot with a wrister off a rebound of Ian Cole that beat Rinne just 2:46 into the game.
Rinne stopped the next 26 shots for the victory and the party continued into the night.
Early on, Matt Murray extended his scoreless streak to 72:54 with the Pittsburgh goalie looking ready to notch his 21st playoff win. Then he gave up five goals in the span of 15 shots and the catfish watch was on.
The Predators got it started with a three-goal flurry in the second.
Josi scored his sixth goal off a slap shot at 5:51, tying it at 1-1 and finally giving nervous fans something to enjoy. Then Gaudreau, who scored his first career NHL goal in Game 1, scored 42 seconds later to put Nashville ahead with his wrister from the high slot, taking advantage of a screen by Penguins defenseman Ian Cole to beat Murray glove-side.
Just after that go-ahead goal, the Penguins had a rush on Rinne, and the three-time Vezina Trophy finalist made back-to-back big saves. First, he stopped Phil Kessel’s wrister from the right circle. The rebound bounced back into the slot, and Rinne made a save on Chris Kunitz with an assist from Subban sliding over to help.
Neal made it 3-1 with 22.6 seconds left in the second, banking the puck off Murray’s left arm for his first goal in the series and sixth of the playoffs. Smith’s goal on a breakaway at 4:54 was his first of the playoffs, and Ekholm padded the lead with a power-play goal with 6:50 left.
“We played some good hockey in those first two games, just a couple little breakdowns and they jumped all over us and it was in the back of the net,” Neal said. “It was a good job of limiting that tonight.”
As for Rinne, Neal added: “We felt we left him out to dry a few times in the last game. I thought we did a better job tonight.”
Smith is the 18th different Nashville player to score a goal this postseason, and Ekholm became the 19th. ... The Penguins went 0 of 3 on the power play and now are 1 of 13 in this series. ... With an assist, Crosby now has 160 career playoff points (56 goals, 104 assists) and tied Mike Bossy, Gordie Howe, Bobby Smith and Al MacInnis for 20th all-time. ... Laviolette sat veterans Cody McLeod and Vern Fiddler to get more speed with Harry Zolnierczyk and P.A. Parenteau. ... Pittsburgh forward Carl Hagelin played for the first time with center Nick Bonino out after taking a Subban slap shot off his left foot in Game 2 that left him on crutches and in a walking boot.
Christian Pulisic scored early in the second half, defender John Brooks limped off with a leg injury and the United States struggled at the start of a 1-1 exhibition tie against Venezuela on Saturday night, a warmup for a pair of World Cup qualifiers next week.
Jose Manuel Velazquez put Venezuela ahead in the 29th minute, but the 18-year-old Pulisic tied it in the 61st with his fifth goal in 15 international appearances.
Brooks, who missed a pair of March qualifiers because of injuries, hobbled off in the 51st minute, rubbing the side of his right leg, and was replaced six minutes later by Matt Hedges.
The US plays Trinidad and Tobago on Thursday at Commerce City, Colorado, then is at Mexico three days later. The US is fourth in the final round of qualifying in North and Central America and the Caribbean with four points, ahead of Honduras on goal difference. Mexico leads with 10, followed by Costa Rica with seven and Panama with five. Trinidad is last with three.
The top three nations qualify for next year’s World Cup in Russia, and the No. 4 nation advances to a playoff against Asia’s fifth-place team.
Rio Tinto Stadium is about 4,500 feet above sea level, preparation for matches in Colorado, at about 5,200 feet altitude, and Azteca at 7,820 feet.
The US started close to a first-choice lineup, missing only forward Jozy Altidore, who reported late to training camp because of a family commitment. But the center back pairing of Brooks and Geoff Cameron, starting together for the first time since October, was not sharp.
Velazquez scored his third international goal after Junior Moreno’s corner kick was headed by Pulisic. The ball stayed in the penalty area. Clint Dempsey headed the ball again in a clearance attempt, but it went wide to Moreno.
Moreno headed the ball back into the penalty area to Velazquez, who moved between Brooks and Fabian Johnson, stuck out his right foot at the top of the 6-yard box and stabbed the ball past goalkeeper Tim Howard.
Venezuela nearly doubled the lead five minutes later. Moreno sent a corner kick across the penalty area and Rubert Quijada had an open diving header at the 6. Howard dived to push the ball off a post, and the ball bounced across the goalmouth, where it was cleared by Michael Bradley.
Pulisic tied the score after taking a pass from Johnson at the top of the penalty area. He took two touches with his right foot to create space from Christian Santos and beat goalkeeper Jose Contreras with a 16-yard left-footed shot.
DeAndre Yedlin was at right back and Jorge Villafana at left back. Bradley was in defensive midfield and Pulisic in central midfield, flanked by Johnson on the right and Darlington Nagbe on the left. Dempsey and Bobby Wood headed the attack.
The US had rainbow numbers on its red jerseys as part of an initiative with You Can Play Project, which promotes equality without regard for sexual orientation and/or gender identity. The jerseys will be auctioned online for charity.
Venezuela is last in South American qualifying with six points in 14 games and has been eliminated. About two hours after the end of the friendly, the US and Venezuela met in the quarterfinals of the Under-20 World Cup at Jeonju, South Korea.
More than 1,500 people are thought to have been injured – three of them seriously – after Juventus fans watching the Champions League final stampeded in a Turin square after mistaking firecrackers for an explosion or gunshots.
Thousands of people had gathered in Piazza San Carlo on Saturday night to watch Juventus play Real Madrid on giant TV screens. During the second half of the match loud bangs led to a sudden rush in the middle of the crowd, causing a surge that flung people against barriers.
Many were trampled as people began to run out of the centre of the square, screaming in fear. The stampede may been started by the explosion of a loud firecracker that was mistaken for a bomb, some witnesses suggested.
“I heard an explosion, which must have been a huge firecracker,” a witness told La Stampa, one of Italy’s daily newspapers. However, another suggested it may have been the result of a security barrier falling over.
“They shouted, there’s a bomb, evacuate the square,” a member of the audience told the paper. “So we ran away. There were people on the ground, and blood and glass everywhere.”
One of the fans, who was caught next to the barriers, said: “I felt I was being lifted up. It was terrible.”
Although initially police said 200 people needed hospital treatment, the Italian news agency Ansa later put the figure at 1,527, using hospital tallies.
Most of the injured were treated for cuts and light contusions, but three people, including a seven-year-old boy, were reportedly in a serious condition.
“The root cause of this was panic,” said the local official Renato Saccone. “We’ll have to wait a while to understand what triggered it.”
In a statement, local authorities said the crowd “was seized by panic and by the psychosis of a terror attack” fearing that the loud noise was caused by attackers.
Shoes and bags littered the ground in the aftermath of the stampede, and people were seen limping and searching desperately for friends and relatives. Police have set up an information point to help people find their loved ones, and are now investigating what caused the panic.
“I saw the entire piazza went in the direction next to the screen to escape, all in a panic,” Brian Hendrie, an Associated Press reporter, said. “They ran, fell on the ground on the glass.” He said some reported having heard a small explosion, others a shot. “I heard five or six different versions. It sparked a panic.”
Within minutes, dazed fans in Juve’s black-and-white jerseys returned and milled about the piazza amid the broken bottles and rubbish littering the cobblestones, with the match largely forgotten.
Verletzte in Turin! - Panik beim Public Viewing https://t.co/IS7rZC7qGy
Some injuries occurred after a railing around the entrance to the underground parking beneath the square gave way under the weight of the crush.
Local media cited older Juventus fans saying the panic had evoked painful memories of the 1985 Heysel disaster in which 39 mostly Italian fans died when fans were crushed by a collapsing wall before the start of that year’s European Cup final, against Liverpool.
The mayor of Turin, Chiara Appendino, who had returned from watching the Champions League legends match in Cardiff, held a meeting with police on Sunday morning.
She was then due to visit the local hospital where the seven-year-old boy was being treated. His condition, which includes injuries to his head and torso, was described as serious but stable.
Following the stampede, Appendino tweeted: “I’m shocked at what happened in Piazza San Carlo in Turin. We’re monitoring the situation minute by minute.”
Zinedine Zidane hailed an historic day for Real Madrid as the Spanish champions became the first club to retain the Champions League with an emphatic 4-1 victory over Juventus, on a night when Cristiano Ronaldo wrote his name into the record books with another two goals.
Ronaldo became the first player to score in three Champions League finals and took his tally of career goals to 600 with a man-of-the-match performance against a Juventus side that started brightly but badly lost their way in the second half. Mario Mandzukic equalised for the Italian side with a spectacular overhead kick after Ronaldo had put Madrid ahead but the complexion of the game changed after the interval.
Madrid scored twice in three minutes through Casemiro and Ronaldo, with Marco Asensio adding a fourth in the 90th minute after Juventus had been reduced to 10 men following Juan Cuadrado’s harsh dismissal. Zidane described Madrid’s second-half performance as “spectacular” and was thrilled that the club won the Spanish title and the European Cup in the same season for the first time since 1958. Incredibly, it is Madrid’s 12th European Cup in total.
“You can say today is an historic day for all Madrid fans, for the players and for myself,” Zidane said. “I feel extremely happy because the truth is it’s been a special year, you couldn’t dream of anything better. We won the league on the last day and we know it’s very difficult to win a Champions League final for the second year running – we’ve managed to do it.”
Ronaldo, who was given his man-of-the-match award by Sir Alex Ferguson, pointed to his list of staggering career statistics when reminded that some people have criticised him in the recent past and also suggested that, at the age of 32, he feels as good as he has ever done.
“What is important is that I did again, an amazing season, me and my team-mates won the double,” said Ronaldo, who has now scored 108 goals in the Champions League. “I think the people don’t have words to criticise because the numbers don’t lie. I’m very happy, it’s one of the best moments in my career – I seem to say that every year. My head is just a number. I feel like a young boy.”
Zidane, who has presided over those back-to-back Champions League successes, admitted that Madrid struggled in the first half, when Juventus played with no shortage of belief. “We started with difficulties but I think in the second half we were clearly superior,” the Madrid coach said.
“We kept the ball, pressured higher up and physically I think we won the game there as well because of the determination we showed.”
It turned into a chastening night for Juventus, who have now lost seven of their nine European Cup finals and five in succession. Massimiliano Allegri, the Juventus manager, admitted his players were unable to respond mentally when Madrid regained the lead and also recognised the difference that Ronaldo made on the big occasion once again.
“In the first half we played beautifully,” Allegri said. “In the second half Real Madrid pushed the accelerator and we remained too static and sat back too long. We knew we were playing against a very strong team. It’s obvious that if somebody wins the Ballon d’Or and scores so many goals it’s a big advantage for Real Madrid. The only criticism I can make of my players is that after conceding the second goal we should have stayed in the game mentally to try to find solutions and equalise but we couldn’t do that.”
Asked whether this was the end of an era for some of the Juventus players, Allegri replied: “No, I don’t think that Juventus has reached the end of a cycle. [Gianluigi] Buffon will still be the Juventus goalkeeper next year, Andrea Barzagli will still be with us. These players still have a lot to give.”
Australian grand slam tennis great Margaret Court says that the “US gay lobby” is conspiring to strip her name from an Australian Open stadium. Court, 74, and now a Christian pastor, has been criticised for her condemnation of same-sex marriage and for saying that “tennis is full of lesbians”.
Another grand slam champion, Martina Navratilova, says that Court has revealed herself to be a homophobe and that the stadium should be renamed in Evonne Goolagong’s honour.
Navratilova, a lesbian herself, has a point – there’s no disputing that Court has been making bizarre remarks, even making reference to Nazis. Nor does Court seem to realise that if “gay lobby” means people who refuse to tolerate homophobia, then that’s going to include heterosexuals, too.
The comment about tennis being “full of lesbians” says it all – do you ever hear anyone complaining that a sport is full of heterosexuals? How are young sporty girls, whatever their sexuality, supposed to deal with this? It’s said that the Wimbledon tournament may have faced calls to ban Court had she been attending this year (she isn’t). In the light of these events, perhaps something needs to be done anyway.
Just when you thought it might be all about the man it’s never about, it was about the man it’s always about. In the buildup to this final, Casemiro had insisted that he’s there to “plug holes”, claiming that it is robbing the ball, not scoring goals, that brings him pleasure, and yet he had just reached a higher plane, thumping in the shot that put Real Madrid back into the lead and looked set to bring the night in Cardiff to a close. Three minutes later, though, another man stepped centre-stage. Him, again. Cristiano Ronaldo dos Santos Aveiro.
Never write him off, never say it’s over. Don’t even laugh when he says he wants to play beyond 40; listen instead. He decides when it ends. This season, more than any other season, well past 30, he has decided how it ends too. In Cardiff, it ended in a way it has not for 59 years: with Real Madrid champions of Spain and Europe. Although Marco Asensio added a late fourth, Ronaldo’s second was the moment Madrid knew they were the first team to defend the Champions League.
As Luka Modric went up the right just after the hour, Ronaldo dashed towards the near post and, when the ball came to him, he steered it first time past Gianluigi Buffon. Ronaldo kept running, heading towards the same corner Casemiro had occupied just moments before, with the fans chanting: “This is how Real Madrid win.” Recently, it has been too, more than ever before. Ronaldo had opened the scoring; now he had the second, taking him to 12, one for each European Cup Madrid have won, and making him the first player to score in three finals. It also made him the competition’s top scorer for the sixth time.
That was appropriate, and yet for so long it had appeared impossible. Some even wondered if it would ever be possible again. How foolish we were. Unknown to most, something had already happened to seek continuity. In August, Zinedine Zidane spoke to Ronaldo. The moment was perfect, two elements contributing: Ronaldo had just become a European champion with Portugal and he was injured. For each of the last three seasons, he had struggled towards the finish line, which was something that his coach wanted to avoid. Zidane had devised a plan; now he presented it. Here at the Millennium Stadium, that plan came together.
Zidane convinced Ronaldo that there had to be more rest, more rotation, protecting him so that he could peak in the most important games. It would also allow the 32-year-old to prolong his career. Ronaldo had to take a step back occasionally and as the months passed the process was accelerated. Of Madrid’s final seven away games in the league, Ronaldo sat out four. It worked. At full time here, he was named man of the match, a European Cup winner for the third time with Madrid. He had been the image of the last two finals, sure, but not in truth decisive, as he was here.
“We’ve been intelligent,” Ronaldo would say. “I have been saving myself: it is these games when titles are decided.” When he played, he decided. He had just two goals in the competition, none since the autumn, when Madrid headed into the quarter-final against Bayern Munich. By the time he arrived here, he was on 10. He left with two more and another trophy. Two hat-tricks and eight goals were scored across four games against the Germans and then Atlético, two more against Juventus. He also scored the goal that clinched Madrid’s first league title in five years, with his sixth in the final four games.
Ronaldo has evolved, becoming more of a No9, a striker whose movement is more honed. With every passing year, the stats confirm the sensations: he is dribbling less, covering less distance. But he is astute and deadly: this season he has taken fewer shots for each goal than ever before. The opener here was an example: once, the striker might have slipped the ball wide for him to burst into the area; this time, he was the striker, slipping it wide and showing for the return. Carvajal’s cutback was hit, like so many of Ronaldo’s goals, first time.
He leapt and drew down his arms, as he does – a celebration seen often, copied by five-year-olds everywhere. One that was destined to be repeated when he got his second. Like the first, it was turned in first time. Another night, another final, another goal. More astonishing, more impressive, even than those previous nights. His best of all at the end of a career that was already barely believable. More records falling: the first player to reach 100 goals in the Champions League was the competition’s top scorer for a record sixth time.
This was different, though. Different and better. This is Ronaldo’s worst goalscoring season in seven years. The thing is, his worst is pretty much everyone else’s best – over the last six seasons he scored 51, 61, 51, 55, 60 and 53 goals, while this was only his 41st – and then there’s the fact that his year has quality over quantity. It is not simply how many goals Ronaldo scores that matters, although there are many of them, it is which goals. Bayern, Atlético, Juventus. Quarters, semis, final. It might have felt like his moment had gone but when the moment arrived so did he. Him again.
6 Gianluigi Buffon Unlucky with deflections for two of the goals and had similarly scant chance for the others. Champions League success remains elusive.
6 Andrea Barzagli The veteran looked comfortable before the break but became stretched later on and was replaced by Cuadrado as Juve chased the game.
7 Leonardo Bonucci Supreme 60-yard ball to Sandro began the move for Mandzukic’s goal, but his tiny deflection had already helped Ronaldo beat Buffon.
6 Giorgio Chiellini Uncompromising as ever but it was not enough and, as Juve lost control of the game, he and his defensive colleagues became flustered.
7 Dani Alves Ageless performance for the most part, with one superb tackle on Ronaldo, but could not match his semi-final influence going forward.
6 Miralem Pjanic Tested Navas with a crisp low drive early on and helped run the midfield during the opening period but his influence faded as Real improved. Booked.
7 Sami Khedira Cruel deflection took Casemiro’s blast beyond Buffon and changed the game’s dynamic. Consummate and authoritative until then.
7 Alex Sandro Pinpoint volleyed cross from the byline brought the equaliser. Dangerous down the left throughout and almost pulled a late goal back. Booked.
6 Paulo Dybala Twinkling feet caused problems in the space between midfield and defence at times but he rarely got into areas that could really hurt Real. Booked.
8 Mario Mandzukic His overhead volley was one of the great Champions League final goals and will be replayed for years; it will, though, be scant consolation.
6 Gonzalo Higuaín Astute set-up for Mandzukic, having threatened earlier on, but was subdued after a good start and his hex in major finals continues.
Substitutes
Juan Cuadrado 3 (for Barzagli, 66): Even if Ramos made the most of their contact it was some achievement to be booked twice having been brought on to make an impact.
Claudio Marchisio 5 (for Pjanic, 71): Juve had long since lost the midfield when he arrived and there was little change thereafter

6 Keylor Navas Three early saves included a fine one-handed stop from Pjanic. Could do little about Mandzukic’s goal and was rarely troubled after that.
7 Dani Carvajal Laid on the opener and, despite being up against the impressive Sandro, generally stood solid defensively. Suspect hamstring held up well. Booked
7 Sergio Ramos Involved, not very tastefully, in Cuadrado’s red card and was booked himself earlier on. But if you lose the edge, you lose the winner that he is. Booked
7 Raphaël Varane Had a more comfortable night than seemed likely at the start, with a lot of the play in front of him. One good first-half block from Higuaín.
8 Marcelo Much more involved after the break and enjoyed himself as space began to open up. Excellent run and centre to assist Asensio’s goal.
7 Luka Modric Came out for the second half looking a different player and, having warmed Buffon’s hands, crossed superbly for Ronaldo to make it 3-1.
7 Casemiro Looked off the pace in the early stages and was lucky to go unpunished, but that will be forgotten after his decisive bolt from the blue.
8 Toni Kroos Opened up the pitch with the driving run that ultimately brought Ronaldo’s first goal. Helped Real gain firm control of the midfield after half-time. Booked
7 Isco Began to knit moves together for Real after an anonymous opening spell. Kept possession intelligently and carried the ball forward well.
7 Karim Benzema The striker was given little change around the penalty area but was involved in the move for the opener and worked tirelessly before going off.
9 Cristiano Ronaldo His first real involvement saw the ball end up in the net; his second finished similarly and capped a remarkable tournament from the 32-year-old.
Substitutes
Gareth Bale 6 (for Benzema, 77): Denied a fairytale goal in Cardiff by Bonucci’s fine block shortly after coming on
Marco Asensio 8 (for Isco, 82): Thrilling young talent who wasted little time in making an impact with a clinical finish
Álvaro Morata 6 (for Kroos, 89): Too little time to make a real impact
A rugby tour to New Zealand is a bittersweet pleasure for every player. There is nowhere better to test yourself but no more painful place on earth to lose. This applies every bit as much to the provincial matches as the looming Test series. Woe betide any naive Lions anticipating a low-key midweek hit-out against uninterested Kiwi opposition before the serious stuff begins.
Even a cursory glance at the 2017 itinerary induces a shiver down the spine. Starting with Wednesday’s game against the Blues in Auckland, the Lions face perhaps the toughest midweek schedule ever compiled. The Highlanders in Dunedin, the Chiefs in Hamilton and the Hurricanes in Wellington on successive Tuesday nights directly after Saturday fixtures against the Crusaders, the Maori All Blacks and New Zealand? Brutal does not even begin to describe it.
When Warren Gatland’s midweek Wales side played the Chiefs last year the home team romped to a 40-7 victory. Gatland himself was a key member of the Waikato team that thumped the 1993 Lions by 38-10. Small wonder those set to feature against the Blues at Eden Park sense a difference in intensity compared with the early stages of the 2013 tour to Australia. “You just sense it from the whole organisation,” says Conor Murray, the outstanding Irish scrum-half preparing to form a new half-back partnership with his current room-mate Dan Biggar. “There is an air around the place that there’s something bigger coming than four years ago. That’s the way it needs to be because the All Blacks are better than Australia were. I think the coaches, players and staff are all aware it’s going to be a lot tougher … it’s going to be a hell of a few weeks.”
If there is an upside it will not be long in coming: the selectors will swiftly find out who can cut it. Murray, who started the 2013 tour behind Mike Phillips in the pecking order, suspects competition for Test places will be fiercer than normal as a result. “Last time round you had a feeling of the Test team after a couple of weeks whereas I don’t think that will be the case this time. I think we’re going to push each other right to the week of the announcement of the first Test team.
“Maybe Warren and the lads have a few ideas in their heads of combinations and people they may want to play but it’s just so tight it will probably come down to who goes better in the midweek games and the weekend games leading up to the Test. There’s an air of red-hot competition which is great.”
The impressive Munster No9 is still a slim-priced favourite to make the first-choice XV, having been Ireland’s guiding light in last autumn’s victory over the All Blacks in Chicago. Strong yet dextrous, confident yet approachable, the 28-year-old has all the hallmarks of a key Test Lion but is presuming nothing: “I think it’s OK to say you want to be the Test starter, that you want to play in the Tests, because they’re the games that are remembered. But it’s going to be really tough to get into that team. I think this squad is massively talented ... the Test team you could pick could be incredible.”
Jonathan Sexton will be prominent among those hoping the fit-again Murray comes steaming out of the blocks; an all-Irish half-back pairing in the opening Test would also help save Gatland and co precious training ground time. If Owen Farrell or Biggar end up at 10 instead, an instant connection will have to be established in the most demanding of circumstances. “It’s not necessarily about looking at videos,” Murray says. “It’s just about spending time chatting with these guys, getting to understand them and how they see the game of rugby.” Sporting telepathy tends not to be plucked out of thin air.
Knowing Sexton as he does, Murray also expects plenty of straight talking on the training pitch as the tour progresses. “I was talking to Dan about it. All three fly-halves are pretty fiery and really competitive. You’ve three guys there that want to win all the time and if standards aren’t upheld they will let it be known they’re not happy. It will be interesting to see what happens. I am sure there will be a few barking orders over the next six weeks.”
There is certainly no time for Murray and his Munster team-mates Peter O’Mahony and CJ Stander to dwell on their disappointing Pro12 final defeat to Scarlets. If there were suspicions that a long, uniquely emotional season might just have caught up with them, all those unavailable for the pre-tour training camps in Wales and Ireland have been urged to set the recent past aside. “We’ve spoken about the harsh nature of this tour,” Murray says.
“For the 11 of us guys who were involved in finals it’s just been about catching up. You’re straight into looking at another goal with a group of players who hadn’t lost a final so you can’t afford to feel sorry for yourself.” For midweek dirt-trackers and Test contenders alike, there will be no respite from this Wednesday onwards.
If he had a cap for every week he has been banned, Dylan Hartley would still be a veteran, on 60. As it is, the England captain – barring injury, Lions call-up or, perish the thought, suspension – is about to win caps 85 and 86. Had he been a good boy, he would be on 100-plus by now. And he would be a Lion, certainly in 2013, possibly even now.
Regrets? “No,” he says, quietly but firmly. “It doesn’t define me. I’m OK with it.”
It’s hard to square any notion of a serial offender with the thoughtful and amusing interviewee Hartley has always been. But for his reputation, he could, maybe should, have been England captain for most of his career. He is relishing the chance to play that role to England’s young squad on their two-Test tour of Argentina and there won’t be a thought about the Lions.
“There’s no point dreaming or thinking about it. All my focus is towards that first game [next Saturday]. I don’t want to get sidetracked by maybes. I have had that many setbacks. You just learn to say OK and move on. I drew a line under [the Lions] straight away.”
His record as England captain is enviable and interwoven with that remarkable unbeaten run with which Eddie Jones opened his term as coach. Jones and Hartley seem to enjoy a certain chemistry, both of them hookers, both feisty, unconventional and intelligent. That relationship has earned Hartley an opportunity to play his way into form that is rarely extended to players at this level. The irony is that he was finally awarded the captaincy just as his status as England’s best hooker came under threat, just as injuries started to bite.
If the length of the season is a cause for concern, Hartley is relatively fresh and in form after a disrupted campaign. He even played 80 minutes the other week, most unusual for a front-row forward. “I can do it,” he says with a grin. “Just give me the chance.”
He is set to continue his captaincy for the foreseeable future, subject to the usual provisos. “There’ll only be changes if I don’t get better. It’s in my hands, and Eddie’s made that very clear to me.”
Next are these two Tests, in San Juan and Santa Fe, against Argentina, the side he made his first England start against – during the Lions tour of 2009. As ever, Argentina will challenge in Hartley’s department, the front row, but these days they are just as adept at the running game. Regular wins remain elusive for their Super Rugby side, the Jaguares, but they will benefit from a familiarity with each other that England, just like the Lions, are frantically trying to engineer.
England will build around a core of experience, led by Hartley with Chris Robshaw, Danny Care and Mike Brown, but beyond that some very young players are being introduced. Nevertheless, Jones has insisted that some of their recent training has eclipsed what they did in the Six Nations.
“It’s the youngsters,” says Hartley. “They’re driving it. Before they came into camp they knew the expectation and they are certainly delivering. I rang all of them. I got a lot of ‘yes sir’ and ‘thank you sir’ from the Curry boys. I worked out how old they were afterwards.”
The twins from Sale turn 19 between the two Tests. Ben was picked on the bench for the Barbarians game last Sunday but had to pull out, so Tom stepped up, came on early and was man of the match. No one knows which twin is which, but then no one knows a lot of these players.
It is certainly a new dynamic and Hartley appears to love being the grown-up in the middle of it all.
It ended, as it so often does, with that familiar smile. Cristiano Ronaldo – gelled hair, dazzling teeth, magic in his boots – will never forget the night he scored the 600th goal of an almost implausible career.
It was the moment everyone knew the Champions League trophy was on its way back to the Bernabéu and, once again, that the four-times Ballon d’Or winner had left his imprint on another final.
Ronaldo had scored twice on another exultant night when he also leapfrogged Lionel Messi to announce himself as the competition’s leading scorer for the fifth season running. He will enjoy that, too, but the real prize here was to be part of a side that have now lifted European football’s most coveted silverware three times in four seasons. Cardiff 2017 will fit neatly with Milan 2016 and Lisbon 2014 whereas, for Juventus, this was a familiar story of regret and hurt.
This was their seventh defeat out of nine finals, including five in a row, and the second half was a chastening experience for the Serie A champions, culminating in them sieving more goals in one match than in the rest of the competition put together. It was a full-on collapse and, by the end, the players in black and white stripes looked in need of smelling salts.
It was certainly rare to see a Juventus team lose their way so badly bearing in mind it was 1-1 at the break and, if anything, Massimiliano Allegri’s players had looked the more rounded side. Yet the second half was a dreadful ordeal for the team from Turin and all those supporters who had held up thousands of black and white cards before kick-off to spell: “The Time is Now.” Yes, Juve were unfortunate, in the extreme, with the deflected goal from Casemiro that gave Madrid a 2-1 lead just after the hour. From that point onwards, however, it was staggering to see a team renowned for defensive structure crumple this way.
Juve’s indignities in that period also featured a sending-off for Juan Cuadrado, one of their substitutes, and a late goal from Marco Asensio when the thousands of Madridistas were already going through their victory songs. Gareth Bale, deemed too short of fitness to start, had joined the party by that stage and no one from Zinedine Zidane’s team should really care that the game’s outstanding moment was conjured up by one of the losing players.
Mario Mandzukic’s goal was the paradox of the night. Indeed, has there ever been a better goal in a European final? Zidane himself is on the all-time list for his spearing volley against Bayer Leverkusen at Hampden Park in 2002. Yet it is a legitimate debate and Mandzukic’s 27th-minute effort here might even edge it given that it involved the ball going between four different players without touching the floor.
Leonardo Bonucci was first with a long, diagonal pass out to Alex Sandro on the left and, after that, it was a blur of exhilarating speed, colour and movement. Sandro’s cross to pick out Gonzalo Higuaín was a beauty: a cushioned, left-footed volley on the run. Higuaín controlled the ball on his chest and flicked it towards Mandzukic. And then, finally, it was the big man’s turn, teeing himself up and then twisting his body to launch himself at the ball. Volley, chest-volley, chest-volley: five touches in total, mid-air; left, right, left and right again. It was like something from a computer game and, at the end of it, Mandzukic’s improvisational shot was dipping and swerving into the top corner of Keylor Navas’s goal.
Ultimately, though, the more prosaic goals carried the greater significance in this contest. Madrid have managed only one clean sheet on their way to winning this competition. Yet there is another statistic about Zidane’s team and the player, more than anyone, who carries the team’s dreams. They arrived in Cardiff with the best goals record of any side in the competition – 32 from 12 ties – and Ronaldo, being Ronaldo, rarely lets a big game pass him by without making some kind of contribution.
To begin with, he had found it difficult to get too much of the ball in and around the Juve penalty area. But he also had periods in the other finals when he drifted to the edges. Then this one reached its 20th minute and he came alive, exchanging passes with the overlapping Dani Carvajal before pulling back his right boot to take aim. His shot was low, directed towards the bottom corner, and skimmed off Bonucci to elude Gianluigi Buffon.
If we were to be kind about the losing side, Madrid’s first two goals both came from deflections and, in Casemiro’s case, the trajectory of his shot completely changed once the ball had struck Sami Khedira. The truth, however, is that Juve, having conceded only three goals en route to this final, chose a bad night to lose their defensive organisation and never recovered from that moment.
Three minutes later, Luka Modric scampered down the right, clipped a cross to the near post and Ronaldo’s clipped finish gave the remainder of the match an air of inevitability. “The people who always criticise Cristiano are going to have put their guitar back in its case,” he said afterwards, modest as ever.
There was still time for Sergio Ramos, as devious as a bag of weasels, to help engineer Cuadrado’s second yellow card with a bout of pretend agony but Madrid’s second-half performance had a lot more good than bad. Marcelo set up Asensio to sweep in their fourth goal in the last minute and Zidane joined Brian Clough, Sir Alex Ferguson, Pep Guardiola and José Mourinho among others on the list of managers who have won the European Cup twice.
Phil Mickelson’s wait to complete a clean sweep of major championships will go on for at least another year, after it emerged the 46-year-old has withdrawn from the upcoming US Open so that he can attend his daughter’s high school graduation. Given Mickelson’s reputation in the United States, this marks a serious blow to the event.
Mickelson, who has endured a series of near-misses at his home open, was scheduled to join the field at Erin Hills from Thursday week. However, speaking at the Memorial Tournament in Ohio – where he is playing this weekend – Mickelson said he will put family before professional goals.
Mickelson’s daughter Amanda will graduate on 15 June, the day of the US Open’s first round. “As I look back on life, this is a moment I’ll always cherish and be glad I was present,” Mickelson told the New York Times. “There’s no greater joy as a parent.”
Mickelson is believed to have already informed the United States Golf Association of his decision, out of respect for the number of final qualifying places they can make available on Monday. As one of the finest golfers in the history of the game, Mickelsonneeds only the US Open to become the sixth player in history to achieve a grand slam of majors.
Sceptics might sense an undertone either of Mickelson feeling he is unable to compete at what is a new host venue – Mickelson has not won at all since the Open Championship of 2013 – or holding a dim view of the USGA. Recent US Opens have been overshadowed by bad publicity, including the rules furore which provided a backdrop to Dustin Johnson’s success last year. When asked last month whether a successful US Open was necessary to improve the reputation of the USGA, Mickelson replied: “I don’t know if one thing right is going to fix that.”
Steven Finn will be drafted into England’s squad for the remainder of their Champions Trophy campaign on Sunday, replacing the injured Chris Woakes in what is a show of rigid consistency by the selectors and the captain, Eoin Morgan.
Finn’s international career has been mercurial over the last four years but, having opened the bowling on England’s one-day tour of the Caribbean this winter and played in their third one-dayer against South Africa last Monday, he retained his place as next in line following the side-strain suffered by Woakes during their opening win against Bangladesh on Thursday.
England were waiting for official sign-off for Finn’s inclusion from the ICC’s event technical committee on Saturday evening, having submitted the relevant forms after watching the 28-year-old pick up two for 49 as their Lions team beat South Africa A in Northampton.
The call-up means Finn, who has 102 wickets from 69 one-day caps and reached the heights of No2 in the world rankings back in 2012, has seen off the challenge of his Middlesex team-mate Toby Roland Jones and Surrey’s Tom Curran and could come straight into the side to face New Zealand in Cardiff on Tuesday – where victory would seal a semi-final place.
Adil Rashid, the leg-spinner who was dropped for the Bangladesh match, and the left-armer David Willey represent England’s other bowling options but whoever gets the nod in the final XI, Woakes will certainly be missed as a go-to man for Morgan at the end of an innings.
Having closed out England’s pre-tournament series win over South Africa last Saturday by nervelessly defending seven off the final over at Southampton, Mark Wood has joined Liam Plunkett – the man entrusted at the end of the first innings on Thursday – in sticking his hand up for further death over duties.
“I’m comfortable doing it and we have got a number of people that can also,” said Wood, who bowled with good pace against Bangladesh and was unfortunate to go wicketless. “Liam Plunkett did it at the Oval, Ben Stokes has done it in India and in Twenty20 cricket, and done it really well. We have options.”
On his own mentality at the death, Wood added: “At times you can almost rush through it, so sometimes it’s nice if the captain comes up to you and you have a little chat. I know my run-up is very short and stop-start, but if you can have that little break, take a breather, that helps.
“The manic behaviour of the one-day game at the minute – especially at the end – means the ball is flying here, there and everywhere, so you’ve just got to be so clear with your plans. I wouldn’t be too disappointed if I disappeared around the field if I stuck to my plan and executed it.”
New Zealand, whose opener with Australia was ruined by rain meaning both sides picked up one point, represent the first of two chances England have to qualify for the semi-finals. Their attack leader, Trent Boult, played with Woakes at Kolkata during the recent Indian Premier League and knows first hand the quality of bowler that has been lost.
“I think he’s a massive payer for them,” said Boult. “He’s played extremely well for them over the past few seasons but I’m sure they have the depth to replace him. We’re preparing to face a quality England side.
“Home conditions do fall into their favour but they are all quality sides in this tournament. Anything can happen and the rankings don’t mean anything – it’s who’s on it on the day.”
New Zealand were certainly on it against Australia, having emerged from the washout in Birmingham the more upbeat of the two sides and with their captain, Kane Williamson, up and running following a typically classy 100 that epitomised his level-headed, almost Zen-like approach to the sport.
Asked if he has ever seen Williamson gets worked up, Boult replied: “Not on the cricket field, no. He gets more flustered on what to wear on a dinner date with his missus. I think he gets it right but I’m no fashionista. He’s arguably the calmest man alive.”
Chelsea Ladies have been crowned champions of the inaugural Spring Series after a 2-0 win at Birmingham. Four teams headed into a nail-biting final round of matches with a chance of clinching the title but Chelsea got their hands on the trophy, ahead of Manchester City on goal difference, following goals from Karen Carney, against her old club, and Fran Kirby.
“I thought that overall it was a very professional performance by us and it showed that we’re winners, a team that just wants to go out there and win,” Kirby said. “Manchester City have been winning titles so this was an important one for us, this is our trophy and we’re going to take the impetus into next season.
“On a personal note I’ve had a long journey on the road back from injury, I’ve had to push myself to the limits to get myself fit again. But I’ve kept myself positive and I’ve had tremendous support from the girls, who have been absolutely brilliant with their support.”
It will have been sweet revenge for Chelsea following April’s SSE Women’s FA Cup semi-final defeat to their hosts.
Manchester City were runners-up and they concluded their campaign with a 3-1 win against Liverpool. Goals from Jill Scott, Melissa Lawley and Megan Campbell put City in control before Caroline Weir pulled one back late on.
Arsenal finished as the only unbeaten side after a 5-0 victory at Bristol City. Louise Quinn, Jordan Nobbs, Chloe Kelly, Danielle van de Donk and Beth Mead were on the score sheet but it was not enough to win the title as they finished third.
Mel Fletcher and Beverly Leon were on target as Sunderland and Reading shared the points in a 1-1 draw.
The value of Adam Lyth’s century, surely the hardest-fought of his 22 in first-class cricket, was seen in its celebration; having spent 41 balls across 16 overs and 71 minutes hanging in the nineties, he involuntarily leaped into the air while completing a single. The next ball he faced, drained by his 234-ball stay, produced his first truly loose shot, and he was caught behind driving.
But Lyth, whose next highest score this season is 30, had chiselled Yorkshire towards Roses dominance: a first innings lead of 150, which their potent seam attack then capitalised on, dismissing Lancashire’s top four cheaply. In their way stand Shiv Chanderpaul and Dane Vilas, who shared a sprightly 60 late in the day. Still, Lancashire are nine behind and face a battle to save the game, although they will be heartened by Monday’s rotten forecast.
A measure of Lyth’s innings’s quality is that the only other batsman to pass 40 is Chanderpaul. Lyth played totally against type for a man normally stylish and gallivanting. With Lancashire’s bowling – all 82 overs were delivered by seamers – never easy to get away due to a defensive line and the favourable conditions, care was required and Lyth obliged. Lancashire badly missed Jimmy Anderson, but he emerged at stumps to do some sprints, and England are increasingly optimistic he will be fit for the summer’s first Test.
Yorkshire lost Gary Ballance, his 600th run of the season ticked off, to Ryan McLaren in a funereal morning but, with lunch approaching, Saqib Mahmood, the pick of the bowlers, found two wickets in two balls – Jack Leaning caught brilliantly at second slip and Tim Bresnan nicking to first. Lancashire’s bowling improved and with Lyth rightly watchful, Andy Hodd, Azeem Rafiq and Jack Brooks provided some lower order roister. Jordan Clark, who dismissed Lyth, ended with three wickets, like Mahmood.
And so Lancashire embarked on a 48-over final session deep in arrears, with the ball talking, against an attack tailor-made for the conditions. To Brooks they lost the punchy Alex Davies, then to Ben Coad went Haseeb Hameed; both made 10, both were lbw. Hameed’s was perhaps high, but he has 26 runs in six innings. Three of them are ducks, and his 10 here is the highest score in that torrid sequence. Runs are badly needed against Middlesex next week.
At this stage Lancashire would have rather liked the services of Liam Livingstone, who spent his day smashing South Africa A around Northampton, for an 83-ball 129. Instead, Luke Procter flashed at Brooks and was caught at first slip, then Steven Croft nudged half-forward and edged to second. Lancashire’s hopes lie with Chanderpaul.
Somerset may be winless and bottom but, as Dean Elgar and Lewis Gregory showed against the champions, Middlesex, they are not lying down. With a stand of 249, they each scored centuries, Gregory’s 137 his first in first-class cricket, to lead them from the wreckage of 80 for five to a position where a declaration was possible – on 443 for nine. Middlesex’s opening Nicks, Compton and Gubbins, made it through 22 overs to stumps.
An even more extraordinary stand gave Hampshire total control against Warwickshire. Having come together at 31 for three, Sean Ervine (203) and Jimmy Adams (166, his first ton since 2015) put on 367, breaking a host of records, including the largest ever fourth-wicket stand for Hampshire, and against Warwickshire. Sunny Singh, the 21-year-old left-arm spinner, dismissed both on his way to six for 144, a maiden five-wicket haul in just his third match, as Hampshire racked up 515.
Warwickshire closed looking doomed: they had lost their top six for just 49. Jonathan Trott, absent fielding a family issue but returning on Sunday, has a frightful job on his hands.
Division Two leaders Nottinghamshire face a mighty battle to save their unbeaten record. They head into the third day against Derbyshire two down in their second innings (having lost Jake Libby and Che Pujara), but still 67 behind after Billy Godleman’s 121, his third century in the season, guided the hosts to 363, a lead of 144. Life without James Pattinson and Stuart Broad was a little tougher, learned Nottinghamshire.
An enthralling day at Chester-le-Street, brimful of dropped catches, saw Durham fight back against Northamptonshire, yet they remain 94 behind for the loss of Keaton Jennings, stumped sweeping Rob Keogh, in their second innings. Earlier, Max Holden, on loan from Middlesex and not 20 until December, scored his maiden first-class century and Josh Cobb made 96 as Northants posted 338. With the end of their stand of 162 for the sixth wicket came a burst of wickets for Paul Coughlin, who picked up his maiden five-wicket haul, and Northants lost five for 11.
And in a run-fest at Hove, Worcestershire closed 139 without loss (with the in-form Daryl Mitchell on 86), a fine response to Sussex’s monstrous 579 for eight declared. Luke Wells, who has 413 runs in two innings at Hove this year, laid the foundations with 155, but the contributions continued all the way down. Luke Wright, freed from captaincy’s shackles, made 87 (20 of them coming in four balls before his dismissal), while David Wiese contributed 66, and his dismissal brought the declaration.
It is undoubtedly an exaggeration to suggest Wigan’s season is in crisis just yet, but it is becoming increasingly clear that the reigning Super League champions are running out of excuses and, more importantly, fixtures.
The Warriors have now gone six games without a win after this latest defeat, and while there are still the Super 8s to follow later this summer, the fact Shaun Wane’s side are closer to the bottom four makes their remaining six fixtures before the split essential to remain in touch with the leading pack.
Wigan certainly have injury problems aplenty, and the fact they lost their captain, Sean O’Loughlin, pre-match certainly did not help – but their recent performances have been so concerning that such mitigation is unconvincing.
Hull too came into this fixture with problems, without key personnel and on a run of three consecutive defeats; yet they were still far too good for the Warriors here, moving back into the top four after completing their first double against Wigan in Super League.
To their credit, the Warriors improved immensely after half-time but by then they were 26-4 down and the damage had been done, a point not lost on Wane afterwards.
“We just left ourselves with too much to do in the second half,” he said. “We played poorly. It was six tries apiece but they were the better team. It’s a big game against Leigh next week.”
There were four Hull tries in the first half, including two to the winger Steve Michaels, who on both occasions brutally exposed Wigan’s deficiencies in defence.
Wigan’s opening half was perhaps summed up by a moment of madness from the forward Willie Isa, who tripped Mark Minichiello to concede a penalty that Jake Connor kicked with ease to open up that 22-point lead at the interval.
Perhaps the one crumb of comfort for Wigan in that half was that they survived a 10-minute period without Liam Farrell relatively unscathed, after the England international was sent to the sin-bin for dissent. After half-time they were much improved, and by the hour they had reduced the gap to 12 courtesy of tries from Liam Marshall and Lewis Tierney.
With Wigan on top, it would need something special to quell any hope of a comeback, and the Hull full-back Jamie Shaul provided it with an instinctive chip, chase and regather to end Wigan’s revival before Albert Kelly secured victory with a long-range effort. Late tries from Marshall, Tom Davies and Joe Burgess were mere consolations for a side already well beaten.
Against all the odds last year, Wane produced the best from his players to not only get an injury-hit Wigan side to Old Trafford, but win the title full-stop. If he can do so again this season, it would rank as an even greater achievement given where his side currently find themselves.
The troubled passage endured through the Derby by Wings Of Eagles is mirrored in the previously troubled career of his journeyman jockey, Padraig Beggy, who must have feared his days in the saddle could be over when he was banned for a year in Australia at the end of 2014. Entertaining company, as well as a manifestly talented rider, Beggy talked his way into additional trouble after a positive test for cocaine, providing not one but two false explanations before accepting that he had deliberately taken the drug.
For a jockey who had been kicking around for a decade or so without making much of an impact, there is no guarantee of being able to come back from that kind of self-inflicted disaster. That Beggy has been able to do so is testament to his own determination but also to the willingness of the winning trainer, Aidan O’Brien, to give a man a second chance.
After dismounting from his 40-1 winner, Beggy was relating how he packed his bags and quit Australia soon after an appeal hearing failed, returning to Ireland, where he had grown up in Dunboyne and acquired a love of horse racing during childhood visits to Fairyhouse. Two friends, working at O’Brien’s Ballydoyle stable, introduced him to the trainer and he was given a job riding out the next month.
“I got into a bit of trouble in Australia, a bad mistake and something that I’ve put behind me,” the 31-year-old said. “I was knocked down then, I had to pick myself up and I’ve come back out fighting and today I think I’ve proved that.
“Aidan had a chat with me and said, ‘Padraig, you keep working, some day we’ll repay you.’ I don’t think he meant the Derby. So I got into Ballydoyle and I worked hard. He was good to me. I owe him a lot.”
Beggy started in Ireland in 2003, rode for eight seasons with some level of success but never achieved more than 22 winners in a year in a country that has never been short of riding talent. He came to Britain in 2011, basing himself with John Quinn one year and David Evans the next, adding another eight wins before deciding to try his luck in Australia.
“I’ve never rode big winners,” he said, “and I thought riding big winners or Classic winners had gone by me, till Aidan started giving me the rides in them races. It means the world to me.”
Another Derby winner doubtless means plenty to O’Brien, though he seemed genuinely stunned at the quarter from which it came. But he rallied to tell Beggy he had given his horse “a peach of a ride” and added: “Padraig is a world-class rider, always has been and he’s been with us a good while now. We really appreciate his work, day in, day out, every morning.”
In his two and a half years at Ballydoyle, Beggy has now ridden a total of four winners, so there is no disguising that he is not at the top of the pecking order, for all that O’Brien is happy to use him. The trainer ran six in the race and Wings Of Eagles was his fifth string according to the betting odds. O’Brien’s shock suggests he saw it that way as well.
But the cheerful Beggy radiated knowledge of his enormous good fortune as he spoke of the belief he had in his unfancied mount during the buildup. “Cliffs Of Moher was what we thought was probably the best of all our horses, but we were talking on the plane on the way over, saying there’s barely 1lb between them. And every one of them horses is trained by Aidan O’Brien for the Derby. So it doesn’t matter if one is 4-1 or one is 33-1, he’s trained them to come here to run the race of their lives.
“You could run the race tomorrow and maybe one of our others would win it.
“I’d never get a leg-up on the likes of that big, strong, three-year-old colt, without having been at Ballydoyle. I’ve won the Derby, so. I can’t say much more.”
On a sunlit, boisterous afternoon at the home of the unceasing beer tap supply system, South Africa eased to a 96-run victory over Sri Lanka in their Champions Trophy Group B opener. South Africa always looked ahead of the game. Batting first they posted a solid-looking 299, driven on by an effortlessly fine hundred from Hashim Amla, his 25th in one-day internationals, another high-class batsman showing the value of reading a pitch and accumulating with care.
“It was an amazing innings,” AB de Villiers, his captain, said. “He did really well to assess the conditions, there was quite a lot in that wicket early on.”
In reply Sri Lanka were hauled in mid-chase by a fine, aggressive spell of leg-spin from the ever-exuberant Imran Tahir, a bowler who greets every wicket, even a dragged-down mishit to deep cover, with a wildly joyful sprint, like a man fleeing a burning building while simultaneously hearing news of a million-pound jackpot win.
Tahir took four for 27 and bowled with accuracy and aggressive variation. If South Africa’s batting did not really fire, the bowling looks to have plenty of edge and they also fielded with vim. De Villiers spoke at length about the need for calmness and intensity. Tahir only qualifies for one of these, but De Villiers rated his performance “close to a 10 out of 10”.
To make things worse for Sri Lanka a dawdling over rate was punished with an uncontested two-match ban for the stand-in captain, Upul Tharanga, whose team were four overs short of where they should have been towards the end of South Africa’s innings. All the players lose 60% of their match fees, too.
The regular captain, Angelo Mathews, had one too many debilitating twangs and strains. Tharanga won the toss and bowled, fearful perhaps of some nibble in the air on a sunny south London morning with dark clouds still skudding overhead after the end-of-the-world thunderstorms of the previous day.
His bowlers were tight early on. Lasith Malinga was back for the first time in a year and a half and he mixed tight lines with wides and full tosses, still able to dip the odd full ball on to the batsman’s toes. The feisty Quinton de Kock was becalmed, eventually nicking Nuwan Pradeep fiddling outside off stump.
Faf du Plessis was dropped in slapstick fashion by Malinga, dithering under a top-edged pull. After which he ran hard to reach his 50 off 52 balls, facing some ordinary change bowers. In this team the entire Sri Lanka top-six moonlight as wicketkeepers, depriving Tharanga of the usual strong hand of fill-ins and part-time dart merchants.
Amla eased along, lifting Asela Gunaratne over mid-off, cuffing and slapping anything short square on both sides. He is often a little obscured by De Villiers and the Virat-Kane-Joe rat pack but Amla’s record bears comparison with any of these. Only Virat Kohli has more ODI hundreds while averaging more than 50.
De Villiers appeared briefly before spooning a catch to midwicket via a wild, splay-footed pull off something flat and short from Seekkuge Prasanna. Chris Morris biffed usefully. JP Duminy spanked the last ball of the innings into the groundsman’s shed. But South Africa still looked a little short.
Sri Lanka have a fine lineage of spiky little wicketkeeper-batsmen and Niroshan Dickwella set off at a decent lick in their reply, walloping Wayne Parnell through cover and then punting Kagiso Rabada high over midwicket.
For a while Sri Lanka attacked the chase with some hunger before Dickwella was winkled out by Morne Morkel for 41. At which point three moments of brilliance in the field killed the game.
First De Villiers took a standing jump to catch Kusal Mendis at midwicket with one hand just as the ball seemed to have cleared him. This soon became an AB double, the captain hurling down the stumps to run out Dinesh Chandimal. Three balls later Chamara Kapugedera was lbw first ball to Tahir’s excellent googly, never the greatest fate for an international batsman.
At the halfway point Sri Lanka were 154 for four and still on target. At which point Tahir turned the screw. Tharanga, who will only play again in the tournament if his side reach the semi-finals, had completed a fluent half-century but he was caught, playing a pointless lofted drive to David Miller at deep cover, sparking further excitement from the bowler who could probably produce a competitive time at the world indoor 60m heats if the starter’s gun could be synchronised with a successful lbw appeal.
With him went Sri Lanka’s best hopes and the match ended in a rush.
It used to be said that a trainer who felt there were several potential Derby winners in the stable did not in truth have even one. But not any more. Aidan O’Brien once sent eight horses to the Classic and left Epsom empty-handed but his six-strong team on Saturday produced a 40-1 winner in Wings Of Eagles, a colt with just a handful of backers among the countless thousands crammed on to the Downs.
The victory of Wings Of Eagles was the biggest surprise in the Derby since Snow Knight’s success at 50-1 in 1974, and the first for a horse at a double-figure price since High-Rise at 20-1 in 1998. On the day, however, there was no fluke about it, and while Wings Of Eagles and Padraig Beggy hit the front only a few strides from the line, they won a shade cosily in the end.
There were echoes of Pour Moi’s charge through the field to victory in 2011 as his son Wings Of Eagles passed horse after horse in the Epsom straight, building momentum all the time and closing steadily on the leaders. Two furlongs out, though, most eyes were glued to his stable companion, Cliffs Of Moher, and O’Brien’s principal jockey Ryan Moore, as they glided past market rival Cracksman and into a useful lead.
The stage was set for Cliffs Of Moher to stride clear but he simply stayed on without quickening as the race reached its climax, as Wings Of Eagles and Beggy chased them down and claimed victory by three-quarters of a length.
Before the race, some might have questioned O’Brien’s apparent wish to run almost every three-year-old colt with a pulse in Saturday’s Classic. A few minutes later, the wisdom of covering every possible base was unarguable, as Wings Of Eagles fulfilled the promise in his pedigree, which has the family of the 1995 Derby winner Lammtarra on his dam’s side to complement Pour Moi.
This was O’Brien’s fourth Derby success in the last six years and his sixth in all, one more than Sir Michael Stoute’s (current) total of five between 1981 and 2010, and just one behind the all-time record of seven wins in the Classic. All three of the trainers to saddle seven winners – Robert Robson, John Porter and Fred Darling – were active in a much less competitive era, and sent out their final Derby winners in 1823, 1899 and 1941 respectively. O’Brien, though, is closing in and seems sure to catch and pass them all before too many more seasons are out.
The trainer made it clear that Wings Of Eagles had been seen as a possible winner beforehand, despite his starting price and a defeat at the hands of Venice Beach, who finished 12th, on his previous start at Chester. That said, he may still suspect that Cliffs Of Moher will prove to be a better horse in the long term.
“He was working very well and we were delighted with him at Chester,” O’Brien said. “Padraig was always going to take his time on him and produce him and he gave him a marvellous ride.”
He added of Cliffs Of Moher: “I was delighted with the second horse. All those really well-bred, good-looking horses, they can make dramatic improvement from race to race, and we knew that they had all improved [from their trial runs].
“I didn’t really know what was going to happen. I thought Ryan’s horse was open to the most improvement, which he was and he did, but Ryan said he got there and he just got tired in his hands. I was half-afraid that that could happen, but we’d just about made the race. If he hadn’t run at Chester, he wouldn’t have made it here. He came with his long, sustained run and in the last 100 yards it just told, the lack of preparation.”
Michael Tabor, a former bookmaker and one of the co-owners of Wings Of Eagles in John Magnier’s Coolmore Stud syndicate, said that he had felt before the race that any one of their six runners could make the step up to win. “We knew Wings Of Eagles was in the mix, but no more than that,” Tabor said. “He’s proved to be a very, very good horse for the future but I’m afraid I didn’t back him and I didn’t have a bet in the race.”
The betting suggested beforehand that this was one of the most open Derbys for years but the fact that a 40-1 chance crossed the line in front does not necessarily mean that it was a sub-par renewal. That will become apparent only in his remaining starts, but however his career plays out, Wings Of Eagles and Beggy are Derby winners, and nothing will ever change that.
Virat Kohli moved to quell the growing talk of a rift between his India players and the head coach, Anil Kumble, on the eve of their hugely anticipated Champions Trophy opener with Pakistan at Edgbaston, insisting there are “no problems whatsoever”.
Kumble, the former wrist-spinner and national team captain, has been told he must re-apply for the position after his current one-year term expires at the end of the tournament and, despite 19 wins and four defeats across all formats during his time, change may be afoot.
The team, according to reports in India, have told the administrators running their country’s embattled cricket board that Kumble’s style is “overbearing” and now former players Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and VVS Laxman, who comprise the three-man panel overseeing the appointment, must sort the truth from conjecture.
Kohli, the India captain, has previously said the process is no different to what has occurred in the past but before his side’s meeting with Pakistan – a rare encounter given bilateral ties are currently on hold – much of the focus remained on Kumble.
“There are no problems whatsoever,” said Kohli. “As I mentioned before, if something is put in place as a process, I don’t see why people are creating so many speculations about it. The team is totally focused on the Champions Trophy.”
Asked about his own relationship with the head coach, Kohli said: “It’s been really good. The whole journey has been good.”
The situation was not helped this week when Ramachandra Guha, who was part of the Committee of Administrators that runs Indian cricket, resigned and in the letter explaining his reasons – published by ESPNCricinfo – raised the issue of problems in the current set-up.
Guha criticised the way Kumble’s future had been “left hanging” by his contract not being renewed automatically and questioned whether it would give players the belief of their having a veto on the subject in “another example of superstar culture gone berserk”.
The state of affairs adds an extra layer of intrigue to the start of India’s title defence that begins against their neighbours – against whom they have won their past six encounters in global tournaments – and was something the Pakistan head coach, Mickey Arthur, looked to sidestep.
“That’s India’s problem,” said Arthur, whose captain, Sarfraz Ahmed, was sitting next to him. “All I know is that the captain/coach relationship is almost like a marriage. You’ve got to be on the same page all the time. And if you’re on the same page you get correct decisions and you give clarity to your team.
“I’ve had the privilege of working with so many good captains in my time and Saffy is right up there as one I’m really going to enjoy working with, in terms of our relationship going forward.”
Andy Murray enjoys few experiences more than proving people wrong and so the most stubborn man in tennis goes into the second week of the French Open for the eighth time in 10 visits with a ringing endorsement from the rival he beat to get there, Juan Martín del Potro.
There were plenty of people at the start of the week who feared the Scot’s form and fitness were at such a low ebb he had no chance of reaching the final for a second year in a row, and diminished prospects of getting past the quarter-finals. He is not quite there yet, but he is in the fourth round again, and deservedly so after beating the occasionally inspired Argentinian by the misleading score of 7-6 (10-8), 7-5, 6-0 in just under three hours on a mild and pleasant afternoon on Court Philippe Chatrier, not long before the rain arrived.
Del Potro, making his first appearance here in five years after the most wretched time with injury, said of their 10th encounter, and only the second to finish in straight sets: “It was another good battle. The first two sets [took] two hours and a half, really long sets.
“Andy, he’s very smart on court. He has all the shots, but also is great mentally. That’s why he’s No1 in the world and I know how important this tournament is for him. I wish him all the best and, hopefully, he can go far.”
A few players on the Tour would not bother with such compliments. But Del Potro is a man apart, encouraging genuine warmth in the crowd as he fought with tigerish intent to bring the best out of Murray. Del Potro should have won the first set but a blistering forehand in the tie-break was out by so tiny a margin that the chair umpire conferred with the line judge before awarding the point and set to Murray.
The second frame was just as intense but Murray gradually got the upper hand over Del Potro, who had to take painkillers for a groin strain he picked up in his match against Nicolás Almagro two days before. He did not use that as an excuse and said he played pain free, but it was clear he was not moving as well as he might have wished.
Partly that was down to what he identified as Murray’s court intelligence. There were so many artful exchanges between these two wonderful players that it was difficult to pick when the winning shot would arrive. Murray concentrated on keeping as many balls away from his opponent’s lethal forehand as he could, then, having peppered him on the other flank, used the open court to tease him with drop shots.
Del Potro was hardly surprised by the strategy and, when not slicing backhand returns to keep the point going, ran around those shots to unleash his forehand. He struck 16 clean winners with the shot, but only one in the final set, which came and went in 28 minutes. Fighting to the end, however, he made Murray save three break points before completing the bagel.
Murray was in understandably good spirits – although little has unsettled his mood for some time, win or lose. The self-absorption of his youth is long gone, even if there is the odd on-court explosion still. He said after a couple of such outbursts in his second match, against Martin Klizan on Thursday, that he sometimes struggles to contain those emotions.
Perhaps it is no bad thing, though. If he were to go totally against his true nature he might create confusion that would further undermine the state of his game head. He had it on here, with just a fleeting curse or admonishment for his box, where Ivan Lendl sat in his customary state of expressionless concentration.
By the standards of a year ago, when he launched the most extraordinary assault on Novak Djokovic’s No 1 world ranking around this time, he has under-performed. He arrived here having lost early in tournaments to excellent but lower-rated opponents in Dominic Thiem (Barcelona), Albert Ramos Viñolas (Monte Carlo), Borna Coric (Madrid) and the dangerous and unpredictable Fabio Fognini (Rome).
But Murray’s clay game is improving by the match. He agreed that this might have been his best 2017 showing. “I played some good matches beginning of the year,” he said, “but definitely, in the clay court season, those second and third sets were the best I have played, for sure.”
He might have paid scant attention to the pessimists, but his mood is lifted. He is ready to raise his level another notch, as all the really good players do when it matters. He expects to get better, because he has done it so many times before.
Last year here, he reached the final after coming close to losing in his first two matches, each of which went to five sets. This time, he took four sets to overcome Andrey Kuznetsov and Klizan before hitting an ominous beat against Del Potro.
“To be playing him this early on in the slam is not easy, but it can be a very positive thing,” Murray said. “You play someone that good, maybe you’re a little bit more switched on. Your focus is maybe a little bit higher.”
There was one moment of minor irritation when he was asked why he was “shushing himself”.
He arched his eyebrows and replied, “I don’t know why I was doing it. Why does it matter? What’s the big deal? I don’t get it. If I say something and you guys ask me what I was saying, if I say nothing, you ask me why I don’t say anything. What do you want me to do? What do you want me to say? It’s irrelevant. What’s relevant is what happens during the points.”
He’s not wrong.
The last time two British players made it to the fourth round of the French Open, the Beatles were No1 in the charts and Harold Macmillan was serving out his closing months in 10 Downing Street. Kyle Edmund, 22, might not have listened to From Me to You or know who Supermac was, but the 22-year-old with the booming forehand would dearly have loved to match that 1963 achievement alongside Andy Murray at this tournament.
For long stretches of his third-round match against Kevin Anderson, Edmund looked like being part of a little bit of tennis history, but he found the resilience of the tall, powerful South African too much after nearly four hours of grinding tennis on the compact Court 2.
Anderson, seven places behind Edmund in the world rankings at 56, outlasted him to win 6-7 (6-8), 7-6 (7-4), 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 and book a place in the last 16 against the former US Open champion Marin Cilic, who made short work of the Spaniard Feliciano López, to win 6-1, 6-3, 6-3.
Edmund was simultaneously disappointed and satisfied, pointing out that another five-setter was a useful part of his tennis education, especially as he held up well physically. Now, he says, he is looking forward to Wimbledon, with preparation at Queen’s and Eastbourne – challenging the suggestion that it was a surface on which he did not feel comfortable.
“I don’t quite remember me ever saying that I don’t like grass,” he said in his ultra-polite way. “I just enjoy playing on clay and hard a lot more. Well, I play on them a lot more. So I have more time on them.”
There was little in this match for nearly three hours, as they traded big shots from behind or near the baseline. Each of them loaded up with full-force groundstrokes, averaging only three shots a rally until near the end of the match. As Edmund said after his quick-fire win over Renzo Olivo in the second round: “There’s not much point having weapons if you don’t use them.”
Jim Courier said after that performance that Edmund has the potential to be a top-10 player. Apart from a dip during the fourth set on Saturday, he looked worthy of the assessment.
Anderson came to life down the stretch to put the pressure back on Britain’s No2, although breaks were hard to come by for each of them. Edmund held from love-40 for 3-3 in the fifth but could not sustain his level all the way to the end.
“No matter how much money you have, no matter how famous you are, no matter how many people admire you, you know being black in America is tough.”
LeBron James sat in front of dozens of news cameras to discuss racist graffiti that was spray-painted on the front gate of his house. By the time the majority of news reporters arrived at the home, the offensive language had already been painted over.
Some casual observers of all the media coverage might have thought that all the hoopla over a word painted on the gate of a rich and powerful man’s $21m home was a bit overdramatic. How tough is it really, for a multimillionaire to endure a single racial slur for the short amount of time that it appeared before staffers painted over it?
But when James said “being black in America is tough”, he was speaking to a fundamental truth of blackness in America. It is tough, and we are never allowed to think otherwise.
When I discuss issues of racial oppression – particularly racial oppression of black people, I’m often countered with examples of rich and famous black Americans. “What about Beyoncé?” “What about Serena Williams?” “What about Obama?” The implication is – how can things be as bad as you claim when these black people are able to amass so much wealth and power?
But Beyoncé was inundated with racist hate for daring to perform at the CMA awards, Serena Williams is regularly mocked for her black features and compared to an animal, and Obama was for eight years branded a radical Muslim. There is no amount of fame or fortune that can fully protect black Americans from racist hate.
One of the most painful ways to kill someone is to continuously rob them of their peace of mind. That is the aim of these racist attacks like the graffiti painted on James’ front gate, or the noose found at the National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington DC.
These are not imminent threats of physical bodily harm. These are reminders that at any time, the horrors of this nation’s murderous racist past can be revisited upon you. These are reminders that you are never safe, and you should never get comfortable. These hateful actions aim to keep us afraid, unbalanced and distracted.
I myself receive with some disturbing regularity, similar reminders of how unsafe I am as a black woman. I receive emails with images of lynched black bodies, I receive tweets stating that a van is coming to collect me for “re-education”, I receive promises that I will pay for the work I do writing about race in America. People have created fake online accounts for the sole purpose of reminding black people in hundreds of messages a day that they are never really safe.
How powerful it must make someone feel to know that by sending an image, they can invoke 300 years of racial terror. How powerful it must feel to know that with a can of spray-paint they can make a rich and famous professional athlete feel unsafe?
These messages work because they are true. We, as black Americans, are not safe. We are 2.8 times more likely to be killed in encounters with police than white Americans, black mothers are three to four times more likely to be killed in childbirth than white mothers, black Americans are five times more likely to be incarcerated than white Americans, black Americans are seven times more likely to be wrongly convicted of murder than white Americans, black kids are four times more likely to be suspended from school than white kids, black Americans are almost three times more likely to live in poverty and more likely to live in areas of highly concentrated poverty.
We are not safe. We are not safe when driving down the street, in our schools, in our doctors’ offices. We are not safe and as black Americans there is not much we can do about it. This is why the messaging of these hate crimes are so effective. They are a reminder of the reality that we as black Americans live with every day.
These messages should be taken seriously as the hate crimes that they are. They are weapons of psychological torture aimed at making black Americans feel unsafe. And as violent racists have been further empowered in the wake of our last presidential election, it is more important than ever that we stop these terror campaigns that not only lead to psychological harm against black Americans and other people of color, but also help inspire physical attacks against people of color. But if we really want to reduce the impact of these hateful acts, we need to address the systemic issues of racial inequality that make these acts so impactful.
We must work to address the real life barriers to health and safety that are impacting black Americans every day. We must look not only at the hateful message, but at the reality that the message is representing.
When we address the ways in which black Americans are threatened every day by the realities of life in a racially oppressive society, these messages will still be hateful and criminal reminders of horrors of the past – but they will no longer be a promise of horrors to come.
The rustiness of the Lions was evident from the first whistle, when they failed to gather the kick-off and proceeded to spend the next 10 minutes camped in their own half. It must be remembered, however, that they were up against a scratch side, with even less time to prepare. More pertinent to the Lions’ torpor, then, is the fact that they only arrived in New Zealand on Wednesday and were clearly sluggish – in thought perhaps more than body – as a result. Assuming the Lions are acclimatised by Wednesday, there should be a far faster start against the Blues but there was still a concerning lack of intensity, particularly up front from a forward pack that is supposed to be the tourists’ biggest advantage. Stuart Hogg fumbling with his first touch was an inauspicious start and he then butchered an overlap with Anthony Watson outside him and looking to go over. It was not Johnny Sexton’s day at all. His kicking was poor, which is only asking for trouble in New Zealand, and the Irish standoff fired out a few rank passes.
Bryn Gatland has just a handful of Super Rugby appearances to his name but what would his old man have given for a fly‑half displaying such composure? Gatland Jr approached the contest determined to enjoy himself and intent on showcasing the full extent of his kicking repertoire. He was not the only Barbarian to impress: Sevu Reece caught the eye on the wing, as did Luteru Laulala at full-back, as well as the replacement back-row Matt Matich. Many of the Barbarians are part‑timers and their ranks included shop owners, sheep farmers and nurses. How comfortable they were on the ball, however, showed an inbuilt skill set that simply does not exist in the northern hemisphere.
While they are not in abundance, one of the main plus points for the Lions was the impact of their replacements. George Kruis made his presence felt at the lineout and Owen Farrell upped the tempo, even if he missed a routine penalty. Mako Vunipola, too, made a telling turnover – there is a Saracens theme developing here – and Justin Tipuric was ferocious in defence. The Lions had a bit of difficulty in getting all their replacements on when they wanted – if that was poor administration on their part they cannot afford it to happen later down the line – but once they were on the field, there was a bit more direction and verve to the tourists’ play.
There is no doubting that coach Gatland was accentuating the positives when, straight after the match, he was pointing to the Lions being held up over the line four times. True, but their failure to convert their chances should be far more worrying. Anthony Watson might have had a hat‑trick had heads stayed a little cooler and there was a concerning moment in the first half when Greig Laidlaw, admittedly not known for his sniping, missed a huge gap that one of the Barbarians’ props was practically ushering him through. Laidlaw was already committed to the pass and it is worrying because it was clear evidence of the Lions’ muddled thinking. If they cannot learn to play what is in front of them before the Tests they are in trouble.
Without wishing to take any pleasure in the misfortune of others, it has not been a perfect weekend for the All Blacks either and Steve Hansen will be anxious about the injuries sustained by Ryan Crotty and Ben Smith (left) in the Crusaders’ victory over the Highlanders. Crotty suffered a rib injury and, as the Crusaders coach, Scott Robertson, put it: “I think that Steve Hansen will be tucking into his notebook and thinking who’s next.” Smith, meanwhile, suffered concussion and would be a big miss for the All Blacks. Add in the fact that Kieran Read is doubtful for the first Test and Dane Coles’s concussion problems are continuing and Hansen will be relieved indeed that Super Rugby goes on hold after this weekend.

Two French outsiders who have frustrated their admirers with their serial inconsistency, Alizé Cornet and Caroline Garcia, will meet in the fourth round of their home slam after wins of contrasting style on a day when rain ripped through the schedule at Roland Garros.
The unseeded Cornet’s was the bigger, quicker win – 6-2, 6-1 in an hour and 19 minutes over the world No10 Agnieszka Radwanska.
Garcia, the No28 seed, had a significantly lesser opponent in the world No109 Hsieh Su-wei – who was good enough to put out Johanna Konta in the first round and the talented American Taylor Townsend in the second – but struggled over two hours and 39 minutes before winning 6-4, 4-6, 9-7. That might be scant consolation for Konta, the world No8, who had expected to be here at least until the end of the first week.
The ever-smiling Cornet said later: “I was feeling just very happy. It’s a lot of emotion to qualify for the second week of your home slam – big relief, also, because I beat Aga just once in maybe nine matches that we played.”
This was, in fact, her second success against the elegant Pole in eight attempts, but she got the numbers that mattered right. As she told French reporters later: “Whether I play against a top 10 or top 100 opponent, anything can happen, so I don’t focus on numbers.”
Radwanska’s collapse was a major shock but she had no answer to Cornet’s fierce determination. “I enjoyed my time on court a lot, but I was very stressed before the match,” the French player said. “Even during the match, because I felt like I could beat her. When you have this feeling, you have to be focused from the first to the last point. That’s what I did.”
She will be just as wired up for Monday’s match against Garcia. “The crowd is going to be excited to see Caro and me play, to see two French women playing for a place in the quarter-final. I think they will not [favour] one or the other, but we will try to give them a good show.”
Garcia said of her trial against the Taiwanese star: “So many games were very tight at the end. Even when I was down, I kept fighting, tried to be more aggressive. The last week for me was very difficult. It’s good sometimes when you have this period to learn about yourself, about your team, about the people around you.”
She will know plenty about Cornet, of course, and will start as the underdog given that she is No43 in the world – although this has been an unpredictable tournament from day one. Also, she won their only previous match: 7-5, 5-7, 6-3 on the clay of Marseille seven years ago.
“I don’t need to prove anything to anyone,” Garcia said. “I’ve played tennis a long time. I already have done well, but I want to do better, for sure.”
Garcia is a fiery individual and has bounced back with resolve from a suspension handed down by the French Tennis Federation last year, along with her doubles partner, Kristina Mladenovic, for what they considered was “unprofessionalism” at the Rio Olympics. Their ‘crime‘ was to contravene Olympic regulations by turning up for their match in outfits that did not match. They were favourites and lost.
Mladenovic, meanwhile, is already through to the next round, after her rousing comeback against the American Shelby Rogers on Friday, and plays the defending champion, Garbiñe Muguruza, on Sunday in what could be the match of the day.
Elsewhere in the weather-wrecked round on Saturday, Carla Suárez Navarro, the 21st seed, beat the Russian 14th seed Elena Vesnina 6-4, 6-4 without fuss, and the world No4, Simona Halep – who doubted before the tournament started if she would be fit enough to compete at all – beat 26th seed Daria Kasatkina, of Russia, 6-0, 7-5.
Warren Gatland insists there is no huge reason to panic despite the British & Irish Lions’ lacklustre start to their tour of New Zealand. The head coach cited jetlag as the main explanation for the Lions’ unimpressive 13-7 win over a NZ Provincial Barbarians XV composed largely of part-time players and believes it will be a different story when his squad have spent more time in their new surroundings.
The touring team have been in New Zealand since Wednesday and it emerged many are finding it difficult to acclimatise. “These guys are still recovering from the travel,” Gatland said. “A number of players in the squad still haven’t got into regular sleep patterns. Andy Farrell also went to the doctor last night to get a sleeping pill. He went to bed at 11 or 12 o’clock and was up at four o’clock this morning in the team room because he couldn’t get to sleep.
“We’ve just got to try and recover and adjust as quickly as possible. So hopefully in the next two days we’re going to get into a cycle where we’re feeling fresh.”
Gatland and the team’s manager, John Spencer, have made it no secret they would have loved more time to prepare the squad. “We would have preferred to have had a week in the UK with the full squad and a week in New Zealand before the first game,” said Gatland. “Perhaps the schedulers need to look at that for future tours.”
None of the Lions are looking to make unnecessary excuses but their preparation for the opening fixture has clearly been hopelessly inadequate. In addition to their late arrival in New Zealand, a quarter of the squad were involved in domestic finals last weekend and they have also been doing community visits that have necessitated long car journeys. Two players, Ross Moriarty and Kyle Sinckler, required treatment for back spasms that Gatland felt was largely down to being wedged into the back of a 4x4 vehicle so soon after flying in. The squad is due to attend an official Maori welcome at the Waitangi Treaty grounds tomorrow before relocating more than two hours south back to Auckland.
Gatland, however, was encouraged by the efforts of Ben Te’o, Taulupe Faletau and several of his replacements as the Lions fought back from 7-3 down at half-time. “We’ve learned a lot in terms of how tough it is to come to New Zealand and how motivated the teams are going to be against us. That game is going to put us in good stead.
“When I look back four years ago we played the Barbarians in Hong Kong and had a comfortable victory that didn’t test us. Tonight tested us. It was a good first game to have. You’d much rather that than a 50-point win. In 2009, the first game in South Africa was against a Royal XV in Rustenburg and we struggled a bit in that opening game as well.”
Gatland also said it had been special to come up against his son, Bryn, who impressed at fly-half for the Provincial Barbarians. “He played pretty well,” said Gatland Sr. “He caused us a few problems, particularly with his kicking game. That definitely put us under some pressure in that first half.”
The Lions were ultimately grateful to Owen Farrell, who came on to replace an out-of-sorts Jonathan Sexton, and the influential Te’o. “I’ve said all along that we didn’t pick Ben Te’o just to bash up over the gainline,” Gatland said. “His footwork and some of the subtleties in his game were impressive and he had a really strong performance carrying. It was a good start for him: he was accurate, played well and caused a lot of problems.”
Asked if Sexton’s difficult night leaves him trailing the Saracens man for the No10 Test jersey, Gatland said: “That’s pretty unfair in making an assessment like that. Owen Farrell has a big match temperament, there’s no doubt. I would have been happier if he’d knocked over that one he put against the post, that might have given us an easier last 10 minutes. But he’s played some pretty good rugby in the last 18 months and he’s one of the standout performers in northern hemisphere rugby.”
Gatland will stick to his plan of fielding an entirely different starting side at Eden Park. Asked how many changes he will make on Wednesday, Gatland said: “Fifteen. The plan is everyone gets a start in the first three games.”
The All Blacks, meanwhile, are sweating over fresh injury doubts to two key backs with the first Test against the Lions just three weeks away. Ryan Crotty (ribs) and Ben Smith (concussion) both had to leave the field in the second half of the Crusaders’ 25-22 Super Rugby win over the Highlands in Christchurch. Smith has now been concussed five times in the past five years and hooker Dane Coles is also still suffering from recurring concussion symptoms. Crotty is now certain sure to miss the Crusaders’ match against the Lions next Saturday with the All Blacks’ captain Kieran Read also sitting out the game.
Next season, assuming Liverpool can negotiate the play-off round, there will be five English clubs in the Champions League. That is a large number, though it does not necessarily follow that a greater representation will lead to a better chance of English success. Premier League sides have been struggling to impose themselves in Europe in recent years. From a position a decade ago when finals were being reached on a regular basis and Uefa had genuine concerns when two English clubs faced each other in Moscow in 2008, the strength of the Premier League now seems to be an obstacle to progress in Europe rather than the money and attention grabber that once threatened domination.
Chelsea were the last English team to appear in a final, when they won the event on penalties in Munich in 2012, though the reality of the past five years has been that English clubs have rarely been around to contest the later stages of the knockout rounds. Leicester City did surprisingly well to reach the quarter-finals this year, which was better than more experienced teams such as Arsenal and Manchester City managed.
City had reached the semi-final stage a year earlier, though in Manuel Pellegrini’s final season there was no real expectation that they could summon the self-belief or strength of character to see off Real Madrid and they duly went out without scoring a goal over two legs. The year before that, none of the four English teams managed to reach the last eight, and Liverpool did not even survive the group stage.
Various theories have been advanced as to why English clubs have fallen off the pace in Europe. Some say the Premier League is too difficult and unforgiving, leaving little spare energy for extra commitments in midweek. Others believe the English competition is vastly overrated and its crash-bang-wallop players are quickly found out when confronted by continental levels of technique and organisation.
Leaving that argument for another day, the fact is that English clubs have ground to make up on their European counterparts, particularly Barcelona, Real Madrid and Bayern Munich. Short of signing up three-quarters of the Monaco team, a good idea but probably not a practical one, what can English clubs do to put themselves back into contention for Champions League finals? Is there any hope of significant improvement next season, or will we simply end up with five disappointing campaigns instead of four? Everyone is promising a busy summer, even Arsenal, who are only in the Europa League, but here is a quick look at what each of the Champions League contenders might need to boost their chances.
By far the most robust team in England last season, with a simple system that not only works but suits all the players at Antonio Conte’s disposal, there were nevertheless signs towards the end that the champions could be stopped. Though N’Golo Kanté and Nemanja Matic are good at the destructive duties required of defensive midfielders there could be a little more creativity in that area, otherwise too much of the burden falls on Eden Hazard.
Chelsea will also have to resolve the Diego Costa situation, either by keeping him or by bringing in a striker of similar quality. There are not too many of those and even Romelu Lukaku would strike some as an inferior replacement. Chelsea have been linked with the unsettled Real Madrid forward Álvaro Morata, though the Spain international reportedly favours a move back to Italy.
Spurs were great at home last season but out of Europe by Christmas, partly down to playing their Champions League games at Wembley. They will be playing all their games there this season so they had better get used to it, though it is still reasonable to pose the question of what Mauricio Pochettino considers his priority. Spurs would not mind a good run in Europe but they probably do not see themselves as potential finalists just yet whereas, with a favourable wind and a couple of tweaks to the team, they ought to have a very good chance of winning the Premier League.
Tottenham have not won the title since 1961 but first things first. Some of the Spurs players are already attracting interest from other clubs, so a concerted effort to finish on top in England next year would be a logical and desirable next step.
A defensive rethink is needed at the Etihad, beginning with the goalkeeper. News that City are signing Benfica’s Ederson at least means Pep Guardiola has recognised the mistake he made with Claudio Bravo, after being in denial for most of the season. City are fine at the front, they boast the Brazil and Argentina No9s in Gabriel Jesus and Sergio Agüero and have plenty of quality in the support positions but they need a couple of full-backs and, as ever, cover at centre-half for Vincent Kompany.
Keeping both Agüero and Jesus happy might be a problem but City mostly need to tighten their defence to stop conceding stupid goals, an observation made by Pellegrini at least three years ago.
Like Tottenham, Liverpool might be more tempted to put most of their energy into a title challenge rather than an extended run in Europe, though extended runs in Europe will never be disdained at Anfield. Most feel Liverpool need a reliable goalscorer, having failed to end up with anyone in the Premier League’s top 10 last season, though Jürgen Klopp may continue to trust Philippe Coutinho, Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mané to contribute enough between them. Apart from that a commanding goalkeeper and centre-half would not go amiss, and perhaps a driving presence in midfield. Klopp also needs to evaluate his tactics. Even without European involvement last season, Liverpool looked tired at the end. This does not yet look like a side capable of terrorising Europe as of old.
United could do with Uefa relaxing Atlético Madrid’s transfer ban, if that is what is preventing Antoine Griezmann coming to Old Trafford. The Frenchman has the class and imagination to be a crowd-pleaser at United and, if his long-predicted move must wait to January at the earliest, it could be too late to galvanise the European campaign. United must keep hold of David de Gea, whatever the cost, and bring in a striker to take over from Zlatan Ibrahimovic.
Even before the Swede’s injury United were not scoring enough goals and, working on the theory that José Mourinho likes a big chap up front – Didier Drogba, Costa, Ibrahimovic, etc – Lukaku has been mentioned. It has yet to be established whether Mourinho rates the Belgian any higher than he did when letting him leave Stamford Bridge, and United may end up trying to outbid Chelsea for Morata.
The Uefa president, Aleksander Ceferin, has given his backing to the 2030 World Cup being held in England – or a combined British bid.
The Slovenian said earlier in the week that it will be “Europe’s turn” to host the tournament, following 2022 in Qatar and a 2026 event tipped to take place in North America. Ceferin has now gone further by backing a return to Britain for the first time since England hosted and won the 1966 World Cup.
“For me, they are absolutely capable of organising it from an organisational point of view, from an infrastructure point of view,” he told the BBC. “But of course it’s a decision not just for the FA, probably the government and all the others too. But you know everything about English or British football, so they deserve to have a World Cup in the near future.
“I don’t know how much encouragement they need, but they are capable of organising the World Cup, I’m sure. That’s the decision of the Football Association and if they decide to go, we will strongly support them. They will have all our political support. I just hope we will not have two European bidders, because that would not be good. I think the ideal situation would be to have one European bidder, and then all of Europe stands together and we can achieve it.”
Ceferin also addressed the corruption scandal which saw his predecessor Michel Platini and the former Fifa president Sepp Blatter suspended from football for four and six years respectively. The pair each had their bans cut from an initial eight years after appealing against sanctions relating to an illicit payment from Blatter to Platini in 2011.
“With those … let’s call them ‘Fifa matters’, even Uefa’s image was damaged,” he said. “And it was not our fault. OK, we also had some problems, but it was not to such an extent. But I still think that Fifa is improving. Things are changing. I’m sure it’s not easy, there are many internal interests, there are many, many people that were involved in Fifa and want to stay there. But at the end, Fifa will have to change completely, or … it will hurt all the football organisations around the world.”
Britain gets a taste of hosting a major event on Saturday evening with the Champions League final, between Juventus and Real Madrid, taking place in Cardiff. It brings Real’s Gareth Bale back to Wales after he helped his country memorably reach the semi-finals of Euro 2016, and Ceferin feels the occasion will help further Wales’s development.
“It’s quite different if you bring the Champions League final to a city like Cardiff compared to a city like London,” he said. “London will not change if the Champions League final comes to town. For Cardiff it’s a fantastic experience. It’s a bit of a challenge for us because of the lack of infrastructure – hotels and things like that – but I’m sure that they will never forget it. It’s very important also for the development of football. They had some fantastic results last year, especially at the Euro, and they have one of the best players in the world. For a small country like that, it’s a fantastic result.”
An underwhelming first night does not always mean a major production is in trouble. Even the most gushing West End impresario, however, would struggle to claim the 2017 British & Irish Lions launched their tour of New Zealand in emphatic style. Having been in the country just three days, they played like a team whose minds and bodies were still somewhere north of the equator.
Jetlag was clearly a factor, along with the ludicrously short amount of time the entire squad have spent together. Then again, everyone knew that would be the case 12 months ago, once it became obvious the domestic finals would again be played a week before the first Lions game. On this occasion it is less the players who should be blamed for underperformance and more the administrators who keep permitting these conflicts of interest to arise. Add it all together and what should have been a gentle loosener against scratch opposition developed into something altogether less comfortable.
For a while it looked as though the unthinkable might happen against a bunch of part-timers whose ranks included a sheep farmer, a shopkeeper, a nurse and a fruit picker. The Lions have lost their opening tour game three times – in 1903 and 1924 in South Africa and in 1971 against Queensland – and they will be suitably grateful for the small mercy of victory, undistinguished or not. Aside from the pre-match fireworks, the evening’s brightest sparks were probably Ben Te’o, Kyle Sinckler and Taulupe Faletau who all showed up well. Sadly, at least half a dozen others did their chances of making the Test team no good at all, for all Warren Gatland’s insistence this performance was no big deal. Jonathan Sexton’s form urgently needs rebooting and not many New Zealanders went away overly impressed.
Little went right from the outset, with the home side looking much the brighter team and deservedly leading 7-3 at half-time. Only after Owen Farrell replaced the out-of-sorts Sexton on 48 minutes, and his fellow Saracens Mako Vunipola, George Kruis and Jamie George were thrown into the fray, did the Lions edge ahead through a face-saving try in the 52nd minute from Anthony Watson. The last quarter, with Rhys Webb also making a difference at scrum-half, proved marginally less uncomfortable.
With a desperately tough schedule ahead, Gatland will be particularly concerned at the lack of penetration up front and the failure of his backs to outshine a team composed of players from below the top tier of New Zealand provincial rugby. His only real consolation was the excellent performance of his talented son, Bryn, at fly-half for the Barbarians. Otherwise, he has a raft of issues to address before Wednesday’s first midweek game against Auckland at Eden Park, with the unbeaten Super Rugby leaders, the Crusaders, to follow in Christchurch next Saturday.
Then again, it could always have been the craftiest of double bluffs. If it was, it worked spectacularly. There are no shortage of harsh judges in New Zealand and some were already dismissing these Lions before the game had reached the half-hour mark. “Hogg, you’re the worst full-back ever seen in New Zealand, you muppet,” yelled one wag. “Why isn’t Susan Boyle playing?” It is going to be an extremely long six weeks if the Lions do not improve very, very quickly but, equally, credit should be given to the sprightly Barbarians.
Drawn from lower-ranked New Zealand provincial sides, they have been waiting a long time to show these Lions what they can do and were a credit to the coaching of, among others, the former Bath and Saracens winger Joe Maddock. Their captain and hooker, Sam Anderson-Heather, scored a good first-half try and the full-back, Luteru Laulala, may now find himself fielding inquiries from interested suitors. By comparison, the Lions looked as leaden as the skies around Whangarei in the buildup to the game.
Looking at the pristine surface it was hard to believe the biblical pre-match weather had been the primary topic of conversation. A lack of moisture is rarely a problem in this part of the world but even by local standards the 24 pre-game hours of torrential rain were extreme. Had the fixture been played on Friday evening, both sides would have needed snorkels. History, instead, will record a Lions victory in front of a sell-out crowd, with both sides failing to take decent chances close to the line.
The Northland public would have liked to have seen their one-time local favourite Jared Payne, only for injury to intervene and deprive him of a return to the so-called “House of Payne”. In the event they saw Te’o, who spent part of his youth playing north of Auckland in Silverdale, lay down a challenge to the other No12s on the trip with a smoothly composed performance that supported Gatland’s assertion there is much more to the centre than running straight and hard.
Overall, it was yet another iffy opening game to set alongside the broiling 2013 affair in Hong Kong and the rusty 2009 fixture against a Royal XV in Rustenberg. On both occasions the Lions went on to either win or threaten to win the series, while even the illustrious boys of 1971 lost their opening fixture en route to New Zealand. Not necessarily the end of the world, then, but absolutely nothing to be enthused about either.
The former Bundesliga team 1860 Munich face demotion to Germany’s fourth or fifth tier after failing to meet a deadline for a third-division licence.
1860 were due to make a payment of reportedly €5m to €10m to the German football federation for the licence by Friday afternoon, but their financial backer Hasan Ismaik said through his company HAM that he was not prepared to pay it because 1860 “refuses to make necessary changes to solve the many issues facing the club”. Ismaik, a Jordanian billionaire who owns 60% of 1860, was the club’s only hope of meeting the payment deadline.
1860 were relegated from Germany’s second division on Tuesday after a play-off defeat to Jahn Regensburg, a team who were playing fourth-tier football the season before.
Despite missing the payment, Ismaik said he will continue to support the club at the fourth or fifth level “and push forward necessary changes”. The statement added: “His emotional ties to 1860 and his loyalty to the fans remains strong. The financial commitment to the beneficial work of TSV 1860 is also not affected by the aforementioned business decision.”
Ismaik is at loggerheads with those remaining at the club over changes he wants pushed through that 1860 said on Thursday “the club cannot fulfill for legal and organisational reasons”. The Süddeutsche Zeitung newspaper reported that Ismaik, who only has 49% voting rights at 1860 in line with the Bundesliga’s 50-plus-1 regulation, has made his financial support dependent on conditions that would have given him more power. The 50-plus-1 rule seeks to limit the influence of external backers.
Ismaik, who did not attend Tuesday’s play-off defeat, has denied any responsibility for the club’s plight and accused management of “unscrupulous power struggles”. President Peter Cassalette and chief executive Ian Ayre resigned on Tuesday, leaving vice-presidents Heinz Schmidt and Hans Sitzberger in charge.
The play-off loss at home was marred by violence from angry fans. Around 1,000 riot police lined up to prevent the situation escalating as the game was held up for 15 minutes.
1860 had the third most expensive squad in the second division after Stuttgart and Hannover, who both secured their return to the Bundesliga. 1860 finished third from bottom, leading to the play-off against the third division’s third-place finisher.
1860, who won the Bundesliga in 1966 and played in the top flight as recently as 2004, returned to the third level for the first time in 24 years, but Friday’s missed deadline means they will drop even further. 1860’s under-21, under-19, under-17 and under-16 teams were also relegated this season.
Scoring goals is not something Real Madrid usually have a problem with. They have scored in every game this season and have not failed to score since Manchester City stopped them in the Champions League semi-final last year, a run of 64 games in a row in which they have found the net. If any team can stop them, though, it is Juventus, who have let in only three goals in 12 European games this season and only 27 in 38 in Serie A, and are equally comfortable in either a back three or a back four. So how do you score against Max Allegri’s side?
The first question, perhaps, is what shape Juve will use. Juve began the season with a back three but seemed to struggle to accommodate two of their new signings, Gonzalo Higuaín and Miralem Pjanic. From the beginning of December, the 4-2-3-1 became more prominent and, after a 2-1 defeat at Fiorentina with a back three in January, it became the default, producing Juve’s best football of the season.
But the back three returned for the semi-final against Monaco, for two reasons. Monaco play a 4-4-2 with the midfield very narrow and attacking full‑backs. Using three central defenders meant both that Juve were competing three v two at the back, four v four in the middle (albeit in differing alignments) and that their wing-backs could then engage the Monaco full-backs high up the pitch, something that worked so well Dani Alves set up three and scored one of their four goals.
What shape Juve use in the Champions League final probably depends how they expect Madrid to line up. If Gareth Bale starts then it will probably be a 4-3-3; if Isco plays, as seems more probable, Madrid will be in more of a 4-3-1-2. Then the challenge for Juve becomes more similar to the one Monaco posed: two central forwards, a midfield that plays narrow and attacking full-backs, which may encourage the use of a the 3-4-2-1 again.
That presents Madrid with a number of problems. Cristiano Ronaldo remains a wonderful footballer and his finishing is remarkable, as his eight goals over the last two rounds have proved, but he is not as mobile as he once was. He will not, as he might have done in the past, move into the area behind Dani Alves, isolate and beat Andrea Barzagli. Against Atlético Madrid in the semi-final, in fact, it was noticeable that it was Karim Benzema pulling into those wide areas behind the full-backs that led to Isco’s goal in the second leg.
Perhaps that is an avenue for Madrid to exploit but forwards have been looking for the space behind Dani Alves for years without a huge amount of success (even if Monaco’s goal in the semi-final did come down his flank). Besides, this is not the back four of Atlético, it is a back three and there is probably no side that has been as comfortable in that shape defensively as Juve over the past few seasons. The match-up between Dani Alves and Marcelo on that flank will be key, and while it’s probably true that the younger man has improved over the past couple of seasons, it’s not insignificant that, in 19 previous meetings between the Brazilians, Marcelo has lost 13 times and won just three.
Both Benzema and Ronaldo, of course, are capable of a moment of brilliance that could turn any game, but Juve will be confident enough in the capacity of Giorgio Chiellini, Leonardo Bonucci and Barzagli to handle them. Besides which, the ball has to get to the Madrid front two. Isco looks like having the playmaking role but he will probably be up against Pjanic and either Sami Khedira or Claudio Marchisio. Given Pjanic will push forwards, Juve have in effect four and a half central players deep against three.
That makes two factors vitally important if Madrid are to break Juve down. One is that their midfield three of Casemiro, Luka Modric and Toni Kroos can dominate with their slight numerical advantage against Mario Mandzukic, Paulo Dybala and half of Pjanic. And the second is that their full‑back pairing of Danilo and Marcelo can make some inroads against Dani Alves and Alex Sandro.
There is, of course, always the possibility of Sergio Ramos scoring from a set play in a third final – and Madrid will note that six of the 27 goals Juve conceded in Serie A this season were from corners – but Juventus, if they go with the back three, look as well equipped as anybody, both in terms of shape and personnel, to thwart Madrid.
That may be a case for Madrid to start Bale despite his lack of match fitness, or perhaps Marco Asensio, and operate a 4-3-3 – or play Isco wide in that system. Either way, Zinedine Zidane cannot let the game become too channelled down the centre, and in this case, he probably cannot rely on his full-backs, who have been excellent this season, to provide width.
It is customary when India play Pakistan at cricket to dwell on the astonishing scale and sweep of the spectacle. The usual starting figure of half a billion global television viewers is expected for both teams’ opening Champions Trophy game on Sunday at Edgbaston. There will, of course, be the usual fascination beyond the sports pages, too, at a group-stage game of a moderately sized competition in a glitzed-up old colonial sport that can still feed out into a wider geopolitical obsession. Perhaps the notion of cricket diplomacy will once again be raised, the idea that playing one another at cricket might somehow act as a balm to an irreconcilably raw neighbourly partition.
In which case everyone involved had better get a shift on. The Kashmir border between these two nations remains one of the most dangerous places in the world, stage for a constant “dirty war”, with the shadow of scattered short-range nuclear weapons always lurking. For all the hands-across-the-boundary-rope noises around Edgbaston, India’s sports minister, Vijay Goel, announced only this week that there would be no return to bilateral relations, declaring that “cricket and terrorism can’t go hand in hand”.
With this in mind, it is easy to forget just how profoundly Pakistan and India have grown apart on a sporting level, too, with a decade of debilitating isolationism on one hand and a hothoused cricketing boom on the other. The English summer will see the 10-year anniversary of the jumping-off point for this, the 2007 World T20 final in Johannesburg, first in a series of events, sporting and otherwise, that have seen the cricket war swing irreversibly one way.
To an extent India’s players have even outgrown the current occasion. The spectaculars tend to come thick and fast in the year-round riches of franchise cricket. A billion sets of eyeballs also tuned in for this season’s IPL, a World Cup that India win every year, and from which Pakistani players and coaches have been excluded since 2008.
Twenty-five years ago Pakistan were one-day world champions and one half of what was then the most lucrative summer staged in England, that febrile 1992 tour that left Imran Khan declaring that no Pakistan team would ever visit England again. A quarter of a century on, Edgbaston will see a meeting between cricket’s new financial power and a shrunken, scattered Pakistan, nomadic, broke and eating off its knees in the scullery.
At which point the screen freezes, wind chimes tinkle and we’re back in September 2007 at The Wanderers. India had come into the first World T20 with little expectation but sailed into the final on an updraft of thrilling off-the-cuff cricket. Still Pakistan seemed to be in charge at the death, nine wickets down but with Misbah ul-Haq leading the chase and needing six runs from the last four balls. At which point Misbah ambled across his stumps and ballooned a horrible standing sweep into the hands of Sreesanth at short fine leg. India erupted. India hasn’t really stopped erupting since. And the rest is (Indian) history.
Cue instant ignition as board, government and corporate sponsors piled in. The India players were given an instant $3m cash bonus (Yuvraj got a quarter of a million dollars for hitting Stuart Broad for six sixes). Joginder Sharma, the bowler as Misbah cranked out that sweep, received $50,000 cash from a local government department. The civil aviation authority handed out years of free flights for all involved. Within four months the first IPL auction had been held. History was falling into place, that gleaming future lining itself up.
From that moment of playing parity in Johannesburg, Pakistan began to head off the other way almost instantly. Bruised by various gambling scandals, cast in shadow by the car bomb outside the New Zealand team hotel in 2002, it was the attack on Sri Lanka’s bus in Lahore in 2009 that signalled the start of Pakistani isolation. The spot-fixing affair of 2010 capped a sense of drift and debauchery within the team itself.
As the captain, Misbah offered stability and grace in the lost years. Pakistan were, briefly, Test cricket’s No1 team last year. The old, mad, damaging individualism has been reined in. But it is hard to avoid the obvious sense of drift. Despite a culture of vibrant, aggressive cricket apparently suited to the new white-ball world, Pakistan instead have been left behind, a skeleton team stuck on the wrong side of history.
There has been brilliance in Younis Khan’s batting and Yasir Shah’s Test-match bowling. But this is, out of necessity, a more pious, mannered, careful Pakistan, without the exoticism, the wildness, the urbane qualities of the years before the domestic ban. They are eighth in the official one-day international rankings and only just made the cut-off for this Champions Trophy. Fielding has been a problem for some time. The batsmen’s strike rates are noticeably down on modern trends, a startling development in itself for the heirs of Javed Miandad, Saeed Anwar and the great all-rounders.
And yet – as ever in a nation that sweats cricket out of every pore – there is still hope. The departure of Misbah and Younis was rightly mourned. Both had moved on from white-ball cricket but the old lions’ passing coincides with a wider sense of pruning back. Only two members of the team that lost to India at the 2015 World Cup are likely to play in Birmingham. Ties with the dreaded Akmals appear to have been severed, Umar Akmal failing a fitness test in Birmingham this month, having previously passed one under the aegis of the renowned fitness fanatic Inzamam-ul-Haq. Shahid Afridi really does seem to have suffered his final silver-bullet retirement, nailed down at last inside his casket.
New talent is emerging. Sadly the bullish Sharjeel Khan is missing, touched by the Pakistan Super League spot-fixing scandal. But Sarfraz Ahmed is both a fine attacking bat and an interesting captain in this format. Shadab Khan is a prodigious leg-spinner who rips the ball and is exactly half as old as his team-mate, the enduring Mohammad Hafeez. In the warm-up against Bangladesh Faheem Ashraf, a seam-bowling all-rounder, spanked 60 from 34 balls to win the game.
Best of all Mohammad Amir, the superstar that might have been, shows signs of rediscovering his swing after working with Azhar Mahmood during the tour of the West Indies. Amir is a walking, breathing metaphor for Pakistan’s state of suspended animation, the most prodigious talent in cricket in 2010, brought low by his own weakness, but a bowler who has still played only 32 ODIs, eight years after his debut.
There could be no better time to rediscover not just Amir’s own world-class nip but that wider sense of Pakistan-issue aggression, the verve and skill that is so suited to modern white-ball cricket, but which has for the last decade been left to wither a little in the shadow of an all-conquering neighbour.
Oh my goodness, me? Run? You are joking, aren’t you? No, honestly, I’m so unfit, look at the state of me, practically expired getting here from the car park, no, I think I’ll sit this one out, thanks very much. God, look at her doing stretches in her leggings and everything, anyone would think it actually mattered. The last competitive sport I did was the egg and spoon when I was about six, put me off for life. You know, I’m not even sure mothers’ races actually set a good example for the kids, all the coming first and body shaming that goes on. No, darling, Mummy is absolutely not running – well I know I did last year, got talked into it, came first, amazingly, didn’t I, darling, but I’m sure I’ve gained a couple of pounds since then.
Are you sure all the other mothers are? Well, if you absolutely insist, and you don’t mind me coming last, I suppose it looks a bit mean not to. Go on then. Where’s my basket, it’s got my trainers in it – you’re lucky I was at the gym this morning, still have my sports stuff under my dress, actually, there we go – and my sweatband? I’m sorry, I know it looks completely ridiculous, if I’d planned to race, I’d just be in jeans and Birkenstocks like anyone else, and run barefoot, but since I’ve got the trainers and everything, seems silly not to.
OK, just a few stretches, ouch, I’m so stiff these days, God knows why I’m doing this. OK, wish Mummy luck – oh, sorry, was that your foot, ouch, no need to push, it’s all in fun … YAY! God knows how I did that, seriously thought I was going to trip when Rose collapsed in front of me. I don’t know what Tricia thought she was doing at the end, excuse me, it was her who shoved me, yes, she totally did, I’m going to be bruised for weeks, still, no harm done – well, I’m sure she can’t be seriously hurt, no, I was definitely ahead all the way, look, does it matter anyway, it’s just a bit of fun, for heaven’s sake. God I hate competitive sport.
Jack O’Neill, the eye patch-wearing surfing pioneer who helped invent the wetsuit and created one of the world’s best-known surf brands, has died at the age of 94.
O’Neill – who went on in later life to champion marine environmental causes – died of natural causes on Friday at his oceanfront home in Santa Cruz, California, his family said in a statement. He was 94.
The ocean lover wanted to be able to surf longer in the frigid northern California ocean and experimented with various materials to create a lining that made the first neoprene wetsuit wearable.
His death comes a week after California lost another of its treasures: Surfer magazine founder John Severson at age 83. His magazine, which started out as simply a promotional pamphlet for his surf films, became required reading for surfers in the 1960s and carried spellbinding images and tales to an audience starved of such rich media.
O’Neill’s wetsuit discovery came about after he moved with his wife to San Francisco’s Ocean Beach neighbourhood in the early 1950s.
O’Neill said that at the time his friends didn’t have much faith in his invention. “All my friends said, ‘O’Neill, you will sell to five friends on the beach and then you will be out of business,’” he would remark, according to his family.
In San Francisco he opened one of the area’s first surf shops but in 1959 moved his growing family 75 miles (120km) south to Santa Cruz, where he opened his second shop to cater to the city’s growing surf scene. The surfing accident in which he lost an eye came about in the 1970s.
By the 1980s, O’Neill had become the world’s largest recreation wetsuit designer and manufacturer and the O’Neill surf brand had reached Australia, Europe, Japan and other corners of the globe.
He considered O’Neill Sea Odyssey, a marine and environmental education program for children, his proudest achievement. Founded in 1996, it has taken nearly 100,000 school-aged children in his personal Team O’Neill catamaran to the Monterey bay national marine sanctuary to learn about the ocean.
“The ocean is alive and we’ve got to take care of it,” O’Neill said about the program. “There is no doubt in my mind that the O’Neil Sea Odyssey is the best thing I’ve ever done.”
Associated Press contributed to this report
Samantha Stosur believes she is peaking beautifully for another second-week tilt at the French Open.
Australia’s lone singles survivor headed into the fourth round for the sixth time in Paris with a 6-2 6-2 dispatch of American qualifier Bethanie Mattek-Sands.
Stosur blew Mattek-Sands off the court in barely an hour to set up a last-16 meeting on Sunday with Latvian Jelena Ostapenko.
A quarter-final against former champion Svetlana Kuznetsova or Caroline Wozniacki looks imminent as Stosur showcased her title credentials with four aces, seven service breaks and some of the fastest deliveries of the championships.
Yet to drop a set all tournament, the victory in Stosur’s milestone 50th match at Roland Garros was her eighth in a row on European clay and thrust the 33-year-old firmly in the frame for overdue glory after a series of shattering near-misses.
“I’m really pleased that I’ve been able to continue this form and get another straight-sets win,” Stosur said.
“I feel like I probably played a bit better again today and, yeah, I’m just really, really happy.
“Bethanie can be a really dangerous player. She obviously likes to play really aggressive and coming to net, kind of play big, and do all these things, and if you’re not on and doing the right things against her, then she could make life very difficult.
“But I felt like every time she maybe had a bit of an opportunity or something like that, I was able to play a bit better and, yeah, kind of squash that and then get myself ahead again.
“So just really pleased that I was able to play as well as I did.”
Mattek-Sands trudged onto Court 3 with her left thigh heavily strapped and made a horrible start.
The six-time grand slam doubles champion was flabbergasted when foot-faulted on the second point of the match.
“No way,” Mattek-Sands repeatedly protested to the chair umpire.
“I never foot fault.”
Rattled, she dropped her opening two service games as Stosur steamed to a 3-0 lead for the loss of only three points.
Mattek-Sands finally got on the board in the fourth game but Stosur broke straight back before clinching the first set in 31 minutes.
The pair traded early breaks in the second set as Australia’s former finalist sloppily dropped serve from 40-15 up in the fourth game.
But as hovering storm clouds threatened to stall Stosur’s progression, the 23rd seed wrestled back control with some piercing backhand return passes and her trademark forehand power.
Clapping thunder almost forced the pair off court with Stosur five points from victory.
But after consulting officials, the umpire allowed the combatants to play on, with Stosur eventually wrapping up the match in one hour and 10 minutes.
Luck in running may play a significant part in today’s Derby, for which the 19-runner field is the biggest in more than a decade. Anything that misses the kick as the stalls open will probably be trapped in the back half of the field for the first mile and will need things to fall right if they are to catch the front-runners in time.
That must be a concern for fans of the two market leaders, Cliffs Of Moher and Cracksman, neither of which bounced from the stalls with much alacrity when last seen. It may be a particular issue for the inexperienced Cracksman, who was helped by a steady pace and a small field when taking a prominent early position despite his slowish start here in April.
The Epsom surface still seemed to be riding quick despite the rain on Oaks day, so the percentage call must be to find something that can take a reasonably handy early position before staying on strongly, a formula that turned up Harzand last year. Venice Beach (4.30) could be the one this time at odds of 14-1.
It has been slightly surprising to see this one allowed to remain at such big odds despite winning the Chester Vase last month. Aidan O’Brien generally runs a strong Derby contender in that race, did the double with Ruler Of The World and has also been second in the Derby with two other Vase winners.
Venice Beach has taken time to show ability but that is hardly surprising for quite a stoutly bred sort, being by Galileo out of the mare who produced Danedream. That pedigree suggests he should be on a strong upward curve at this stage of his career.
On jockey bookings he is only O’Brien’s third string but the race may pan out well for him and his pilot, Donnacha O’Brien, son of the trainer. They may have most to fear from Best Solution and Permian, who appear well suited to this test, judging by their recent efforts.
2.00 Epsom The only course winner in the field, Emenem has won four of his last six races and has more to offer, judging by the way he beat 13 rivals here last time.
2.35 Epsom A half-sister to an Arlington Million winner who also won at this track, Laugh Aloud is nicely bred and exciting, after two Listed wins from her last three starts. John Gosden’s runner should prove better than these.
3.10 Epsom There is unfinished business with this race for Sovereign Debt, who was an unlucky fourth last year. He seems in the form of his life for his new trainer, Ruth Carr, landing a Group Two last time.
3.45 Epsom High draws do not always dominate but, from stall 18, Boom The Groom is the type who could take advantage of a good starting position, having done best of those drawn low a year ago and been third the year before.
Epsom
2.00 Emenem 2.35 Laugh Aloud 3.10 Sovereign Debt 3.45 Boom The Groom 4.30 Venice Beach (nap) 5.15 Barwick 5.50 Lucky Beggar
Hexham
1.30 Back To Balloo 2.05 Bowban 2.40 Hattons Hill 3.15 Cousin Oscar 3.50 Clan Chief 4.45 No Such Number 5.20 The Pine Martin 5.55 Eager To Know
Musselburgh
1.40 Ellaal 2.15 Rebel Assault 2.50 Pirouette 3.25 Euro Nightmare 4.00 Desert Dream 4.55 Showdaisy 5.30 Sebastian’s Wish
Worcester
1.45 Sarpech 2.20 Rouge Devils 2.55 Marquis Of Carabas 3.30 Mcnamaras Band 4.05 Wolfcatcher 5.00 Gingili 5.35 Caid Des Malberaux
Doncaster
1.55 Waiting For Richie 2.30 Juliet Capulet 3.05 Bella Alissa 3.40 Florenza 4.15 Hermann 5.10 Valcartier 5.40 Mountain Angel
Newcastle
6.10 Bustam 6.40 Byronegetonefree 7.10 Stoney Broke (nb) 7.40 Abjar 8.10 Archipeligo 8.40 Faintly 9.10 Hot Hannah
Lingfield
5.45 Silver Alliance 6.20 Cape Cruiser 6.50 Take A Turn 7.20 Royal Liberty 7.50 Euqranian 8.20 Tanasoq 8.50 Annie Salts
It is at such moments, in the final game of a demanding period which involves playing three times in eight days, that one may learn most about a side. However, in a week which has featured criticism aplenty from coaches and players alike, the most obvious lesson of all was how it is perhaps more important to seek out quality, rather than quantity, if the sport is indeed to undergo a restructuring this winter.
For those arguing that the sport’s stars are playing too often, this was the ideal night to press home their case. If any of the Rugby Football League came along to watch a game which featured almost as many penalties as points, they would have surely found it hard to disagree. One double-header weekend over Easter is congestion enough but another – squeezed in to allow an England pre-season training camp in Dubai which never actually happened – is clearly too much of a strain.
“I’m pleased we won and it’s obvious some things in offence weren’t right but what do you expect? It’s three games in eight days,” said the Leeds coach, Brian McDermott. “Where we are now is crazy. It just doesn’t work. Rugby league is one of the hardest sports in the world.”
Whether schedules with two such weekends in six weeks continue into 2018 is unconfirmed but on this evidence a sport which prides itself on the quality and entertainment it so often provides is being cruelly let down by congestion in the calendar.
There were some positives for both sides. For Leeds there was the response from Monday’s defeat by Widnes with two hard-earned points strengthening their place in the top four as the final rounds of the regular season approach. An eight-day break before their next fixture will feel like a pre-season now.
Leigh arrived buoyed by their first Super League victory in more than two months last weekend and with quiet confidence that they could become only the second team to win at Headingley this year. Amid the conjecture they produced a heartening display which will give their fans hope they can yet avoid the Qualifiers and a battle against relegation this summer.
Both sides played their part in the first half but inevitably fatigue took its toll after the break. That there were 26 penalties did little to improve the occasion, with James Child’s whistle contributing to a lacklustre second half.
The sin-binning of Antoni Maria two minutes after half-time allowed Leeds to improve their four-point half-time lead to 16-10 and after a sustained period of pressure on the Centurions’ line, the hosts further increased their advantage when Danny McGuire kicked through for Adam Cuthbertson to touch down.
Leeds had further opportunities to kill the game but their attack had the look of a side who had been pushed through the rigours of three games in a week. Fortunately for the hosts, Cory Paterson’s late try was no more than consolation for the Centurions, who had fought valiantly throughout.
Leeds Sutcliffe; Briscoe, Watkins, Moon, Hall; McGuire, Burrow; Singleton, Parcell, Garbutt, Ferres, Jones-Buchanan, Cuthbertson. Interchange Galloway, Ablett, Mullally, Handley.
Tries Cuthbertson 2, Briscoe, Moon Goals Sutcliffe 3.
Leigh McNally; Naughton, Brown, Fleming, Dawson; Hampshire, Drinkwater; Acton, Hood, Weston, Vea, Paterson, Burr. Interchange Pelissier, Tickle, Maria, Hopkins.
Tries Dawson 2, Paterson Goal Drinkwater.
Referee J Child Attendance 13,445
Andy Murray believes he and Juan Martín del Potro left an equal number of psychological bruises on each other in two epic five-set matches last year but he discounts the notion he is not playing well enough to beat the Argentinian in the third round of the French Open on Saturday.
“The Davis Cup [which Del Potro won] was physically tough for me because it came off the back of a long summer,” Murray said after a four-set struggle to get past the world No50 Martin Klizan on Thursday. “The Olympics [which went Murray’s way] was physically and mentally hard – and psychologically but I had also come off a period of rest and trained and prepared for it. When we got to the Davis Cup, I’d played the Olympics, gone to Cincinnati and then New York. That was tough. After that I didn’t feel great for the next couple of days, [playing] the doubles and singles.
“But he also will remember those matches. They weren’t easy for him, either, they were tough. I will try to make it the same for him again on Saturday.”
For insight from close to the Murray camp but sufficiently detached to lend perspective, his brother Jamie was the go-to source on Friday, after his own doubles success with Bruno Soares: 6-1, 7-6 (7-2) in an hour and 21 minutes over the Russians Mikhail Elgin and Karen Khachanov.
“He has had a rough year from a results point of view, but also because his health has not been good at all,” the elder Murray brother said. “He has been really unlucky. He had shingles, then he had his elbow stuff and then he has been ill in Miami and ill again here. He has been ill in between that. So it has not been easy – he has not had a clear run at anything. I think that has been frustrating for him.
“He has been unfortunate but things can turn around fast. If he has a great tournament here, he can feel great going on to grass and have a great Wimbledon. In six weeks’ time, you guys will be writing that he is great again. Things can change fast.”
Nor did he share the downbeat assessment of his brother’s chances at Roland Garros. Greg Rusedski, the former British No1, said if Murray played as poorly as he did against Klizan he would struggle to beat Del Potro – which is a fair enough view – but Jamie sees an upside.
“If he keeps winning, his tournament can change quickly. He has not played amazingly in the first two matches but he is winning – that is what matters at the start of a tournament. You can see in the doubles here, all the seeds are losing so all you can do is keep trying to win and take advantage of that if you get the chance.
“But that stuff happens in grand slams. If he can hang around long enough and he finds himself in the quarters or semi-finals, he knows what it takes to win those matches.”
That is true. Last year, Murray survived two five-set matches at the start and reached the final against Novak Djokovic. The players at the very top of the game have gears the others do not. If Murray gets into the second week of the tournament and has shaken off the last dregs of the cold that laid him low at the start of this week, he will be as dangerous as a world No1 should be.
Murray Sr said Kyle Edmund’s excellent run into the third round will be mutually beneficial to them, as well. Edmund looked superb on Thursday beating Renzo Olivo in three sets, after the Argentinian’s heroic performance to put Jo-Wilfried Tsonga out of the tournament. Edmund will play the hard-serving South African Kevin Anderson on Saturday.
“From my point of view, if he is doing well in a tournament and Kyle or Dan [Evans] or the girls are doing well, it is cool. You can kind of feed off that a bit. It is a nice atmosphere to have somebody else to root for in the tournament. I am sure everybody else likes that as well.”
Nevertheless, Murray might find it tougher beating Del Potro than Edmund will against Anderson. The British pair can only meet in the semi-finals … but that is a dream for later.
Twelve thousand miles away from Downing Street there is another race for No10 going on. The British & Irish Lions management have their own big decision to make this week and it is not as clear-cut as it looked a couple of months ago either. Once the Lions have finished their third fixture of the tour against the Crusaders next Saturday, they will have little option but to nominate their preferred fly-half to face the All Blacks.
The opening tour match against a New Zealand Provincial Barbarians XV in a rain-lashed Northland on Saturday is unlikely to supply all the answers. Barring something remarkable, a comfortable Lions win is anticipated and the fixture will not solely determine whether Ireland’s Johnny Sexton retains the shirt he filled with such distinction on the 2013 tour to Australia. The respective body language of Sexton and his main rival, Owen Farrell, nevertheless, will tell the coaches plenty.
With Wales’s Dan Biggar also in the mix, the Lions could hardly have named a more competitive trio of fly-halves. Sexton is theoretically the man in possession but he is four years older now. Farrell, an apprentice last time, is snapping at the boots of his one-time master and has just steered his club to consecutive European triumphs. Biggar has long been one of Warren Gatland’s key lieutenants. Those who assume Farrell, as he does with England, will shift to the No12 jersey alongside Sexton for the big games are getting slightly ahead of themselves.
Sexton’s selection at Whangarei’s Toll Stadium underlined the sense of uncertainty. The Leinster pivot endured such a grim evening in the Pro12 final defeat to Scarlets last month he needed to get back on the first available horse. Picking Farrell on the bench also offers Gatland and his coaches the chance – potentially at least – of giving the Sexton-Farrell 10-12 axis a brief whirl. With preparation time so limited, they need to know as soon as possible if that idea is a runner on grass as well as paper.
Hence why the body language matters. Sometimes a combination clicks immediately; other pairings can resemble two unrelated fish. On the 2009 Lions tour to South Africa the instant midfield rapport between Jamie Roberts and Brian O’Driscoll was a gloriously snug fit from the outset. Should Sexton and Farrell be half as comfortable in each other’s company, Gatland will be hugely encouraged.
The alternative scenario is rather more awkward. The chances are Sexton and Farrell will start together against the Crusaders in Christchurch; if the touring team are picked apart by Super Rugby’s team of the moment, Gatland may well opt to go with a stronger-running 12 such as Ben Te’o or Robbie Henshaw and consider Farrell primarily as a 10. Any hint of a sluggish start to the tour by Sexton and the possible ramifications scarcely need spelling out.
Nor does the necessity, for the Lions, of picking a fly-half who can shape the entire series. This is not any old job: whoever wears the red Lions No10 jersey in New Zealand will inevitably hear plenty about Barry John’s brilliance in 1971.
Last time around in 2005, Dan Carter delivered a classic fly-half performance in the second Test in Wellington. If the modern All Blacks are to be outwitted, the Lions’ chief playmaker will have to relegate the gifted Beauden Barrett to a supporting role.
Sexton would not be human if some, or all, of the above have not flashed across his mind in recent weeks. As recently as March he was orchestrating Ireland’s Six Nations win over England in Dublin but he has endured a stop-start season and his pale features do not currently exude total confidence. Gatland is certainly giving him no guarantees. “We want to see how those players go at 10 in the first three games,” the coach said. “That’s our first instinct at the moment: we’re considering them as 10s.”
Regarding Sexton specifically, there was also a revealing pause when the Irishman’s prospects were mentioned. “He knows he needs to get some games under his belt,” murmured Gatland, choosing his words carefully. “He knows the competition is pretty fierce in that position but he’s a competitor and that’s what has made him one of the best 10s in world rugby.”
There is certainly no sense from Sexton that Farrell will be playing at 12. “Honestly, you’d have to ask the coaches,” the 31-year-old said. “They haven’t given any hints that Owen will play there. He’s had some great success with England at 12 but also he’s had great success with Saracens at 10. Maybe they’ll try him there, maybe they won’t. He’s obviously coming in as favourite to start somewhere. I’ve got to concentrate on bringing the best performances out of myself and see where that gets me. If it’s not good enough, well I can live with that. Hopefully it will be.”
The 27-year-old Biggar will have something to say about that, particularly if he gives an authoritative performance against the Blues on Wednesday. All three contenders also know this tour will be physically draining, with injuries certain to play some part. “It’s the hardest place to tour because of how attritional the games will be,” Sexton said. “You’re playing against the best in the world and this tour will be different from the last one because the pre-Test games will be really tough. That will be good for us; if we can perform well and get some confidence we’ll be match-hardened come the Tests.”
The first few games will be particularly instructive; if the Lions are still undefeated by next Saturday night they will be highly encouraged. Downing New Zealand takes some doing but Ireland managed it last autumn.
“You can’t sit back against them, that’s the one thing I think the Irish guys might tell the other guys,” Sexton added. “You’ve got to keep attacking no matter what the scoreline. You saw that in Chicago. When we sat back we conceded two or three tries. It’s not just attacking with ball in hand, it can be an attacking kicking game and defence as well.” Sexton knows how to win this Lions series but first he has to get himself re-elected.
Matt Mullan is relishing the chance to lock horns with Argentina’s scrum on England’s forthcoming two-Test tour and believes a strong showing against the Pumas may enhance his claim to hold on to the No1 jersey.
With Joe Marler and Mako Vunipola away with the Lions, the Wasps loosehead prop is vying with Ellis Genge for a starting berth against Argentina, traditional heavyweights at the scrum. Of the 30 players unavailable to Eddie Jones 10 are front-rows but the head coach has challenged his current squad to keep those injured or away out of the side when they return.
“If you get a chance when you are out there, then you want to try and play as well as you can,” said Mullan. “If you are the last person in that shirt in Eddie’s eyes, then that could stand you in good stead next time he selects a group. Against Argentina there is a combination of technique and size and they pride themselves on that area – it is traditionally a strength of theirs and we know it is going to be a challenge. We will have to do our homework but that scrum battle is going to be important out there.”
In an effort to build camaraderie and encourage competition Jones arranged a quiz night for his 32-man squad – split into four teams of eight – on Wednesday. The referee Wayne Barnes wrote it, England’s defence coach, Paul Gustard, was quizmaster and Dylan Hartley’s side won. This competitive element has continued in the gym and around the training camp.
“It’s a bit of a challenge and it picks up each team. Having not met some of the boys before you get the chance to sit and talk to them,” added Mullan. “It is just a really nice way to interact and get to know each other a bit quicker.”
Chris Robshaw trained alone at a public session at Twickenham on Friday because of a sore ankle but Gustard is confident he will be fit to take part in the first Test, a week on Saturday. Marland Yarde, who joined up with the squad at the start of the week and went on stand-by in case Denny Solomona failed to recover from his ankle injury, will travel to Argentina.
The fact Northern Ireland took on this friendly at all, sandwiched between training camps in England and Turkey, is testament to a level of diligence which continues to bear fruit.
The key aspiration was not to beat New Zealand – albeit that will maintain confidence in a squad which now punches well above its weight as standard – but to build towards next Saturday’s crucial World Cup qualifier in Azerbaijan. Back-to-back tournament appearances is a legitimate aim for a team consigned to international football’s wilderness for years.
Northern Ireland’s manager, Michael O’Neill, also has a selection dilemma he may well have predicted. Ross County’s Liam Boyce notched his first goal for his country in an excellent 45-minute display. Boyce’s claim to start in Baku before more established players is now a serious one.For New Zealand this was a low-key opening to their Confederations Cup preparations. Northern Ireland’s tempo was always vastly superior.
Boyce’s career path has hardly been orthodox. After a successful spell in the Irish League with Cliftonville, the Belfast boy was recruited by Werder Bremen. If there was no shame in Boyce failing to make the grade in Germany, it was a surprise that he ended up back with his first club. Another prolific period followed before joining Ross County.
The faith shown by the Scottish top flight club has been well founded, with Boyce returning 48 league goals in 80 starts. In the campaign just ended, the 26-year-old was the top scorer in his domestic league. Boyce’s next task is to carry this record into internationals, easing the burden on Kyle Lafferty.
Lafferty, whose future is unclear after an unhappy spell at Norwich City, was left among O’Neill’s substitutes here. Boyce took full advantage of the faith bestowed on him by confidently cutting inside and lashing a left-foot shot beyond Stefan Marinovic after six minutes. Only a fine Marinovic save prevented Boyce’s strike partner, Josh Magennis, from doubling the hosts’ lead in their next attack.
That flow of pressure remained until half-time with the Leeds United striker Chris Wood barely afforded a touch. Conor McLaughlin had the ball in the visitors’ net, with an earlier foul denying the full-back proper credit for a stunning half-volley.
With his work done, Boyce remained inside at the interval. Lafferty’s impact was almost instant, the 29-year-old turning a Magennis cross from the right just wide.
Magennis was the next to try his luck, his header skimming the crossbar. New Zealand’s best opportunity of the match came with 25 minutes to play, with substitute Kosta Barbarouses thwarted by the inside of the post.
Sergio Ramos described it as a “date with history”, and it is one they have waited a long time for. The last time Real Madrid were in this position, Alfredo Di Stéfano played his final game for the club, departing bitterly after defeat by Helenio Herrera’s Internazionale. Two years before, Ferenc Puskas scored three, but Eusebio’s goal denied them in Amsterdam; and the time before that, the last time they achieved what they seek to emulate on Saturday, Paco Gento’s extra-time winner defeated Milan 3-2 at the Heysel Stadium.
That was 59 years ago now, victory securing Madrid’s players 50,000 pesetas each, 25,000 per trophy: the bachelors earned £20 a month, married players £29, but all of them left Belgium £148 better off. They had earned it: Madrid had just completed a league and European Cup double.
It had happened before, in each of the two previous years, but it never happened again. Until now? Madrid have won 27 league titles since and eight European Cups, but not in the same season. Like in 1964 and 1962, they are 90 minutes away. Inter and Benfica denied them then; Juventus stand before them and history now – and “history”, as Ramos said, really is the word, even for the biggest, most successful club there is. Madrid have won 11 European Cups, but the last eight have come alone, stretching back to Brussels. These players could achieve what Puskas, Amancio, Sánchez, Butragueno, Zidane, and the original Ronaldo never did.
“Throughout our history, Madrid are the team that has won the most. We can’t live off the past, but that badge imposes upon you and we know our obligations,” Ramos said. “Our history is not coincidence. For us this is an opportunity that this wonderful sport gives us.”
It is an opportunity to eclipse some of their most successful generations. To do what Di Stéfano, [Héctor] Rial and Gento did. Much has changed since then, a long time has passed, a lot of players. These are different days. Pepe Santamaría recalled that the bonus “didn’t go far”. Yesterday, Juventus’s Dani Alves grinned that cheeky grin and said: “the president promised us a red horse [a Ferrari] if we win – let’s see if he delivers.” Madrid’s bonus is reportedly 1.5m euros each. The enormity of the achievement warrants it, even for them. After all, it is not just 1958, not just a wait of over half a century for this double; it is that another record stands before them: 25 years have passed since a team defended the European title.
“This is a chance to win it for a second year in a row,” Ramos said. Back then, Carlo Ancelotti, the man who led Madrid to the décima, their 10th European Cup three years ago, was on the pitch for Milan. So were Ruud Gullit, Frank Rijkaard and Marco van Basten. In the Champions League era, no team has emulated that Milan team, not even those that have defined epochs like Arrigo Sacchi’s side did. Juventus have been in consecutive finals but, having won it in 1996, in 1997 and 1998 they were defeated – as they would be again in 2003 and 2015.
“Real Madrid have a feeling with finals; they are used to winning them,” Gigi Buffon said, smiling slightly. “We, on the other hand, have lost a lot of finals.” For Madrid, it is 11 wins from 13, and three finals in four years, something Ramos described as “barbaric”. For Juventus, it is two from eight. “We are going try to change our history,” Buffon added. At 39, it could be his last opportunity: this is the only trophy he has not won. The last time he tried, Juve were beaten by Barcelona. That night in Berlin, Dani Alves played for the other side, collecting his third European Cup; now of course he is a team-mate. “I’d like to see him win it; I took one off them, I’d like to give one back,” Alves said. Buffon meanwhile admitted: “I asked Dani to teach us how to win this competition.”
“There is a thorn in Juventus’s side,” Alves said. “Whether that’s because they lost that final two years ago, or that it is twenty years since they won this competition, or that they lost the 1998 final to an offside goal …”
The “offside” goal, cheekily referenced, was scored by Pedja Mijatovic, to finally end Madrid’s 32-year wait for the trophy that despite those barren years had come to define them. Alves was enjoying this, a moment for fun, not for fear. “We are not scared of Madrid’s history,” he added. “We’ll play with ambition and desire. We’re hungry, and there’s a plate in front of us. We have to get there, pick up the cup and get out of there with it.” Told Alves’s words, Ramos replied: “we’ll be there at quarter to nine.”
If so, they will be an hour late. It’s a date, anyway. And it would be historic for Juventus too, completing their first ever treble, and making it eight clubs in European history. Alves alone is on for his third, making him unique.
It is that kind of occasion. A Champions League final is big anyway, but this feels even more significant; The plot is simple – win the European Cup – but there are subplots everywhere, waiting to be fleshed out. From Alves’s third treble, and against his former rivals, the team he has faced 42 times complete with international team-mate Marcelo, to Buffon’s last chance. “It wouldn’t change his whole career to have it, but it would be another golden history,” Alves said. Juventus’s captain, Buffon would be the oldest player to lift the trophy and he described potential victory as the “perfect finale”.
It is the perfect final for all of them; the strongest sides in Europe, Italian and Spanish champions. The competition’s best defence against its best attack. Different styles, different identities, yet much that is shared.
So much of this feels symbolic. The stories are many. Like the last time they met in a final, 1998 still the single most anxiously-awaited game in Madrid’s history, and one that Mijatovic described as being like “going from back-and-white to colour”. The European Cup’s most successful team finally won in the modern era, with Zidane on the other side. He had to leave Turin to win the European Cup: first as a player, then assistant coach, then coach. Here he is again, 18 months into his top flight managerial career, already seeking a second. And there’s more. There’s Gonzalo Higuaín against his former club, where the many he scored are less well remembered than the few he missed, a sense of bitterness accompanying his departure. “I’m trying not to think about it,” he admitted.
Sami Khedira, a Champions League winner with Madrid in 2014, too. “Lads it’s been a pleasure,” he said when he left. This week, he said something rather different, admitting: “As soon as I had a less good game, criticism started and people asked if I was good enough. It got on my nerves. At Juventus they see you differently. After five years there, I had to leave.” And Álvaro Morata, against those he credits with making him a man.
Then there’s Gareth Bale in Cardiff, forced to take pills to get him through training and matches as he fights to make it. Because he probably won’t, there’s Isco, centre-stage at last. And Cristiano Ronaldo’s bid to become the first player to score in three Champions League finals – if Ramos doesn’t get there first. Asked who would be the star if he and Ronaldo played together, Zidane said: “Him, for sure. I could play quite well, but he scores goals.” “Too much humility is not a good thing either,” Ronaldo said. “We’re better.”
Alves agreed. Indeed, he embraced the underdog role. But he was determined to enjoy this. He had started almost with a sales pitch, like a presenter getting everyone going, and he would end with one too. “Good afternoon,” he had begun, “it’s very special to be able to live this day. To be alongside so many great players, playing another final, is lovely. Everyone will stop to watch this game. We’re lucky to be here and we have to enjoy this moment. What we have to do is try to make the night even more special, sweat every last drop; this is the coronation of our season.” He ended by calling it: “very, very, very, very beautiful.” Whatever happens, there is a date set, history to be made and stories to be told.
The question is which ones.
Margaret Court was the most glittering example of Australia’s domination of world tennis in the 1960s and 70s – a prolonged period of supremacy in which a murderer’s row of superstar players with iconic, instructive nicknames like Rocket, Muscles and Newk took all before them.
It was a time when Australia’s sun-blessed climate, abundance of tennis facilities and lack of the stifling class systems that held the sport back in other countries, seemed destined to ensure world-beating talent would flourish forever. Even then, in the fattest of times, it was beyond comprehension that the country would ever produce a female champion to rival Court. She was a living legend among mere champions.
At times like this past week, as Court determinedly administered upper cut after crushing right cross to her own reputation, it pays to note her more noble achievements before they’re forgotten entirely, for Court’s record 24 grand slam singles titles (and 64 including doubles) are for generations of Australians little more than fading facts from dusty almanacs.
From her late teens to her mid-30s, through marriage, multiple retirements and the birth of children, Court acquired a trophy collection of staggering proportions: 11 Australian Open singles crowns, five US Open titles and as many at Roland Garros, three on the lawns of Wimbledon.
Though fame and celebrity never rested easily on her shoulders, in the throes of competition she was always a picture of quiet determination – scrupulously fair, dignified and modest, the embodiment of Australia’s outdoorsy, can-do image of her times.
If Billie Jean King – Court’s on- and off-court sparring partner since the 1960s – was the reformist whose relentless pursuit of a better deal for women brought true equality to the sport, it was Court who paved the way for women to embrace power and physicality long before the likes of Amelie Mauresmo and Serena Williams, not just beating but dominating opponents.
The bedrock of Court’s remarkable success was a compelling mix of single-mindedness and those imposing physical gifts. Height, reach (it was often said Court’s arms were three inches longer than the average woman of her size, which earned her the nickname The Arm) and power did for most opponents. “A superbly athletic animal,” is how Sports Illustrated’s Gwilym Brown termed it, calling Court “the physical equal of a great many men”.
Between 1960 and 1973 she triumphed in 929 of 1,003 matches, racking up 61 major titles and her remarkable grand slam of 1970.
Yet for all that, even before this week’s detour into tabloid ignominy, or the near-identical imbroglio of 2012, Court was, in her own words, “an anonymous champion” and a little-loved one. “I don’t think the younger people today really know what I have done,” she told Steve Flink in 2012. “Personally it doesn’t affect me. It is probably a bit sad for the history of the game.”
To provide context for Court’s most lurid and provocative statements in the past three decades generally, and the last week particularly, one might start by perusing any of her three colourful autobiographies, published in 1965, 1975 and 2016, or Barbara Oldfield’s 1993 effort A Winning Faith: the Margaret Court Story – unique in the realm of Australian sports biographies for being written by an individual who claimed to have experienced religious salvation at the healing hands of her subject.
If there is a common theme within the Court literary oeuvre, it’s the stubborn immovability of her opinions. Another is how acutely aware she has always been of the impact of her words.
In Court’s latest book, during a passage in which she outlines her strident opposition to same-sex marriage, she also makes clear how well she understands the interplay between the interests of journalists eager for a contentious, click-baiting quote, and her own in promoting her ministry. “It is undeniable I was – am – good copy,” Court writes.
And then this, on the calculated provocations of 2011, which led to the first calls for Margaret Court Arena to be renamed: “My statement was akin to pulling the pin on a hand grenade and throwing it into a crowded room.”
One of the most astute observations made in the wake of Court’s most recent dive-bomb into public debate was by the cricket writer and high profile transgender Australian Cate McGregor, when the latter pointed to Court’s flair for publicity. “The pile-on last week strategically helped her,” McGregor told the ABC’s The Drum, “It gave prominence to her views and it rendered her a victim. You can kick us (the LGBTI community) to death to the applause of the mainstream media and ramp up solicitations for money, as I saw her acolytes doing on Christian radio the other day, and it’s frankly sick-making.”
Right now, smack bang in the middle of the website for Court’s Victory Life Centre, above even Court’s photo and biography, is a link to donate. In her latest book, Court claims a member of her congregation once handed her a cheque for $237,000. In another anecdote, a visiting American pastor promises a $50,000 donation in order to solicit smaller $1,000 donations from members of the congregation, enough in that instance for the deposit on a new property. No one knows the precise size of the market for Court’s wares, but it certainly exists.
Court’s overt displays of faith shaped her enduring post-1970s status as an unloved champion of Australian sport, always a determinedly secular field.
Standing out in newspaper and magazine profiles of Court in the latter stages of her playing career are colourful accounts of her spiritual awakening – all arched gates, Jesuit monasteries and electric shocks through the fingertips (“I knew I had the gift of healing”). An Australian world champion who speaks in tongues? “Only a strong minded-woman would risk the jibes that these declarations are likely to attract,” was the verdict of Tennis magazine in 1976. The same year, Kooyong tennis club removed Court’s framed picture from its gallery of world stars. The die was set: even standing in the winner’s circle, Margaret Court was an outsider.
It was in 1979 – in the scripture of 2 Timothy 1:7 – that Court found the personal salvation she says she had ached for, and a cure to the physical and emotional ailments that made a misery of her post-playing life. “For God hath not given me the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love and of a sound mind...” For a time, those were the only words Court could commit to memory. As born-again Christian tales go, it was almost too great a cliche.
A central tenet of Court’s particular brand of faith is living by a quite literal interpretation of, in her words, “the Word of God”. “I believe implicitly in what the Bible tells me,” Court said in 2016. “I do not cherry pick to be popular. God has made his feelings clear, and they are my feelings, too.”
Overlooked during her current evisceration in the court of public opinion, and in Court’s cries of injustice and persecution, is the fact that for a purveyor of such divisive opinions she has actually had a charmed run. In 1970, Court kicked things off by praising South Africa’s apartheid policy (“South Africans have this thing better organised than any other country, particularly America,” she said. “I love South Africa. I’ll go back there any time.”), for which she received very little lasting scrutiny.
Her 1990 comments about Martina Navratilova (“a great player but I’d like someone at the top who the younger players can look up to. It’s very sad for children to be exposed to homosexuality. Martina is a nice person. Her life has just gone astray”), and her suggestion that lesbians were ruining tennis, drew international attention, but never went close to defining her image in Australia.
Court’s most fascinating battles on and off court have been with King, disparaged in 1975’s Court on Court as a bad sport whose outspoken feminism and public revelations about an abortion diminished her greatly in Court’s estimation. Yet when Melbourne Park’s centre court was renamed the Rod Laver Arena in 2002, it was King who argued that it should have been Court’s name on the rafters instead.
It was also King who stepped in to defend Court during the 2012 imbroglio, again amid calls to rename the arena. “Get rid of her for that?” King said. “Because you don’t agree with her? Are you kidding? Please. She deserves it. She’s a great player.”
A great player, yes, but for better or worse, Court is now the principal architect of her own image. “All my life I’ve believed you must tell the truth,” Court said last year. “Hold on to your beliefs, no matter how unpopular, no matter if saying your piece is going to get you in trouble.”
The preening Portuguese meets the immovable Italian. Cristiano Ronaldo will lead Real Madrid’s breathtaking attacking force in their attempt to crack Juventus’s sublime defensive unit marshalled by Gianluigi Buffon. Massimiliano Allegri will see Madrid’s defence as inferior to his own and Paulo Dybala as the man to exploit any frailty. Zinedine Zidane’s side can become the first to win back-to-back Champions League titles while Juventus can complete a historic Serie A, Coppa Italia and European treble. An enthralling encounter beckons. Graham Searles
Kick-off Saturday 7.45pm
Venue National Stadium of Wales
Head-to-head Juventus 8 Real Madrid 8 Draws 2
Live BT Sport 2, BT Sport Showcase, BT Sport 4K
Referee Felix Brych (Ger)
Odds H 21-10 A 7-4 D 19-10
Subs from Neto, Benatia, Rugani, Lichtsteiner, Marchisio, Lemina, Asamoah, Sturaro, Rincón, Cuadrado
Doubtful Khedira (thigh, Mandzukic (knee)
Injured Pjaca (knee, unknown)
Suspended None
Form DWLWWW (all competitions)
Discipline Y104 R1 (all competitions)
Leading scorer Higuaín 32 (all competitions)
Subs from Casilla, Nacho, Coentrão, Danilo, Rodríguez, Kovacic, Vázquez, Asensio, Bale, Díaz, Morata
Doubtful Bale (ankle), Carvajal (hamstring)
Injured Pepe (ribs, unknown)
Suspended None
Form WWLWWW (all competitions)
Discipline Y98 R2 (all competitions)
Leading scorer Ronaldo 36 (all competitions)
Beer sales were just a little brisker than typical on the 7.43 out of Euston on Friday morning, but then it wasn’t carrying your usual commuter crowd. There were a few hundred expat cricket fans on board, making the early run up to Birmingham for the Trans-Tasman derby between Australia and New Zealand at Edgbaston. As the train left Coventry the announcer reassured them all that, if they were quick, they had time for one more round before they reached New Street. Which set the day up perfectly. Because in between all the longueurs while the showers blew over, carrying fat cold raindrops, everything in the match happened in a hurry. It was all about time, who had it, and how they used it. With so many quick bowlers playing, there was precious little of it to go around.
It’s a hard road, Edgbaston, for Australia’s fast bowlers. It’s been 16 years since the team last won a game here, back in the 2001 Ashes. Since then, a lot of quick men have taken a lot of hard knocks at the ground. In the 2004 Champions Trophy, Glenn McGrath and Brett Lee were rattled by Marcus Trescothick and Michael Vaughan, the first little inkling that the 2005 Ashes was going to be a very different sort of series to the ones just before it.
In 2010 Australia played a couple of T20s against Pakistan, and Dirk Nannes, Mitchell Johnson, and Shaun Tait were thrashed around by Umar Akmal. And then, in 2013, Mitchell Starc had one of the worst days of his career here, giving up 75 runs in 10 overs against Ian Bell and Jonathan Trott.
Starc is the only member of that particular attack who is back again this time – senior man, now, in a gang of four, along with James Pattinson, Pat Cummins, and Josh Hazlewood. In theory, the finest, fastest, and most exciting bowling attack in the sport at the moment. Though like their predecessors, they struggled here.
Australia haven’t actually managed to get them all into the same team, largely because Cummins and Pattinson have both had so many injuries over the years. And we’re still waiting for them to make their debut as a supergroup now, since Pattinson was left out against New Zealand, to make room for burly, bald John Hastings, the Pete Best of the band.
Not that Pattinson’s omission was all that reassuring for the rest of us. He has taken 20 wickets at 11 runs each in the county championship so far this season, another 11 at 28 in the Royal London Cup, and he still cannot get in the team. All cricket is improved by quick bowling. But, fun as the spectacle was for the neutrals at the ground, they wouldn’t have had to think too far ahead to start fretting about what those four fast bowlers might do to England if they stay fit, in their group match here next Saturday, and, of course, in the Ashes series beyond it, looming into view at the far end of the year.
“You can prepare for the storm by latching the windows and sandbagging the doors,” Jacques Kallis once said when he was talking about what it was like to face Mitchell Johnson, “but when the rain comes, it’s still a surprise.” New Zealand weren’t looking to lay down defences. Their openers, Luke Ronchi and Martin Guptill, decided the best thing to do was counterattack. Starc started fast, and full and straight, while Hazlewood opened at the other end. Only, the white ball just wouldn’t swing for either of them. Guptill went straight into business, hit five glorious fours before he misjudged a shot, and was too early on a delivery from Hazlewood and hit a leading edge to point.
Ronchi decided to heave his bat at everything in reach. He would hit an exquisite shot one minute, and a ridiculous one the next. He took a shine to Cummings, who came on as first change in the seventh over.
A six over cover, struck with what seemed to be the slightest tap of the bat, was the shot of the day. One moment he was stepping back to leg to uppercut a six over point, the next coming across inside the line to steer four over the keeper’s head. When he was dropped at mid-on off Starc, he followed up by hitting the same shot again, only this time a little harder and higher, for a four. Cummins gave up 52 runs in his first five overs.
Meanwhile, Kane Williamson was easing into a masterly innings, one which would end, two hours later, with a score of exactly 100. Guptill and Ronchi were in a rush, playing at the limit of their capabilities. But Williamson, like all great batsmen, all great athletes, simply seemed to have more time to play with than everyone else, as if he experienced everything in slower motion than his team-mates, and had, somehow, a different perception of time, one that allowed him to wait ever-so-late to play his cuts, or stride forward to pull off his front foot. When he went, everything snapped back into real time again, and you were reminded just how quick these Australians are. Hazlewood swept through the New Zealand team, and finished with six for 52.
A full list of 2020 Tokyo Olympics medal events will be finalized by the IOC executive board next week, one month ahead of schedule.
Among more than 60 proposals, 3-on-3 basketball is an expected favorite after all were analyzed by an International Olympic Committee advisory panel.
The decision is due on Friday at a board meeting in Lausanne called at short notice to discuss awarding the 2024 and 2028 Summer Games hosting rights to Los Angeles and Paris at the same time later this year.
“Now that we have an (executive board) meeting on June 9 it makes sense to use this opportunity,” the IOC said on Friday. “In addition, an early decision is clearly beneficial to all the parties involved.”
The half-court basketball format – close in spirit to neighborhood park pick-up games – once seemed set for the 2016 Olympics. Its bid for inclusion was curbed when organizers in Rio de Janeiro were stretched preparing for just the regular program.
Now, FIBA believes men’s and women’s tournaments in 3-on-3 are even better suited after skateboarding and sport climbing joined the Tokyo lineup last year.
“Now there is an urban cluster that has been created,” Fiba secretary general Patrick Baumann told the Associated Press. “The best urban team sport is 3-on-3 street basketball. It would certainly be a perfect fit.”
Still, don’t expect two-time Olympic gold medalist LeBron James to seek a third title in the three-a-side game which already has a global tournament circuit.
“That’s probably a nice dream to have,” Baumann said in a recent interview, adding: “Our objective is to have similar and fantastic stars that come out of 3-on-3.”
Baumann singled out the famed Rucker Park street court in Harlem, New York, when expressing hope “to see them in the Olympic Games two years down the road.”
Adjusting from the NBA game would also be tough, he said: “It’s a different skill set. It’s really a 10-minute sprint, no coach, so you need to take the right decisions.”
Adding 3-on-3 tournaments should add 96 athletes to basketball’s quota for the 2020 Olympics, a key test for the proposals next week.
The IOC wants to better appeal to young audiences and promote gender equality, but also stay within the limits of around 310 medal events and 11,000 athletes who must have housing and training venues.
Some proposals are for mixed gender team events and relays – an IOC favorite – using the existing pool of athletes.
Canoeing, rowing, and shooting federations would drop some men’s events to add more for women.
Cycling wants to bolster its track program which was moved to a velodrome in Izu, about 130km (80 miles) outside Tokyo.
By setting the Tokyo lineup earlier, the IOC also clears a long-scheduled 9-10 July board meeting in Lausanne to focus more on the expected dual hosting award.
Paris seems favored to get the 2024 Olympics, with Los Angeles striking a deal to wait until 2028.
Steve Smith did not mince his words after Australia’s Champions Trophy opener with New Zealand ended in a rain-ruined no result, tearing into his bowlers for an “ordinary” display and admitting the weather in Birmingham had seen his side “get away with one”.
Smith’s world champions were certainly wobbling when a third spell of rain at 5.55pm saw this Group A encounter finally ended, with their pursuit of an adjusted target of 235 from 33 overs sitting at 53 for three by the end of the ninth after Trent Boult’s removal of David Warner was followed up by a two-wicket burst from the pacy Adam Milne.
Kane Williamson’s classical 100 from 97 balls had earlier steered New Zealand to 291 all out in 45 overs after winning the toss. It was a total the Australian captain put down to an errant start from his seamers and one that could have been worse were it not for Josh Hazelwood’s career-best six for 52 – a haul that owed much to his opponents swinging late on.
“That was one our worst bowling displays for a long time,” said Smith. “We bowled both sides of the wicket and it was pretty ordinary. Let’s hope it’s rust and it’s gone. Kane timed his innings beautifully but the bowling is something we need to look at.”
Asked for his feelings when, with eight to his name the players left the field for the final time, Smith replied: “We still had some batters in the shed but I would have preferred to have been in New Zealand’s position at the end. We had work to do and a quality bowling attack against us, so we perhaps got away with one there.”
The point apiece plays into the hands of England, who after the eight-wicket win over Bangladesh at The Oval now need just one victory from their remaining two fixtures against the pair to seal a semi-final spot, starting against New Zealand in Cardiff on Tuesday.
It perhaps was a sign of the times that when New Zealand’s innings ended with a record total against their trans-Tasman rivals in a global tournament, it still felt an underwhelming one, ending in a cascade of wickets and an over unused of their allotted 46 as they lost six for 37 runs in 35 balls of picking out men in the deep.
Luke Ronchi’s happy-go-lucky 65 from just 33 balls – including two audacious lifted sixes in an assault on Pat Cummins – and a ninth one-day hundred from Williamson had given the lower order the license to swing. But with New Zealand sitting pretty on 254 for three at the start of the 40th over, something far grander had looked possible.
Australia bounded into the interval feeling better themselves, following what had been a shabby display in the field at times and one that delighted the Edgbaston crowd.
While Glenn Maxwell shone with four catches, Ronchi earned lives on 24 and 54 thanks to a bungled run out by Matthew Wade behind the stumps and a dropped catch by Mitchell Starc.
Starc, who saw the ball after his error at mid on fly over his head for four, was one of the bowlers that Smith had referred to as rusty – a fitting description for the left-armer’s nine overs, none for 52 in which the white ball did not swing and New Zealand’s batsmen went untroubled.
Starc’s lack of edge can be put down to his near three-month break following a stress fracture to the foot and his decision to miss the Indian Premier League. Australia still chose to hold back their most well-tuned seamer, James Pattinson, after his explosive spell at Nottinghamshire, preferring the worthy but less hostile John Hastings instead.
Hastings picked up two wickets but was the bowler Williamson tucked into the most, with the 25 balls he sent down to the right-armer taken for 42 runs in a blitz of crisp cuts and mown slog sweeps on his way to three-figures. Having put on 77 with Ronchi and 99 with Ross Taylor (46), Williamson perished the ball after his century when run out after a steer to point.
From there it all went the way of Hazlewood who, having earlier removed Martin Guptill for 16 by going cross-seam early, profited from New Zealand’s lower order trying to swing for the hills without giving themselves a sighter first. Boult at No11 was his one classical wicket – caught behind to make it three in four balls at the end – as he became just the second bowler in the history of the Champions Trophy to take six.
Boult began New Zealand’s surge with the ball after a rain-extended interval, as Warner feathered behind attempting an uppercut on 18 in the fifth over. The pace of Milne then saw Aaron Finch chip to short mid-wicket and Moises Henriques offer a simple caught and bowled. Australia were suddenly up against it. But no sooner had that last wicket fallen, the rain came again and with it, ended what was set to be a compelling contest.
James Whitaker, the England chairman of selectors, came here hoping Haseeb Hameed could arrest his concerning slump in form. Instead, he was treated to a wonderful display from the Yorkshire seamer Ben Coad, whose second ball had Hameed caught behind for nine. Coad ended up with a career-best six for 25, his fourth five-wicket haul of a remarkable season, as Lancashire were bundled out for 123.
Yorkshire had a dreamy day overall. They lost the toss and were (curiously) invited to field, lost the entire first session to rain and now trail by only 30 at 93 for two after a day that lost 24 overs. Until Peter Handscomb slashed at a wide one from Luke Procter, he had shared 64 with Adam Lyth against a rather thrown together Lancashire attack (there is optimism, though, over the fitness of James Anderson). Alex Lees had played an ugly innings brimming with heaves, but his falling to Tom Bailey – and the accompanying send-off, from bowler and crowd – proved a mere footnote. It is worth wondering how the impending arrival of Tom Kohler-Cadmore will impact Lees.
Coad should play for England Lions this summer and is a bowler with Test potential. He gets movement both ways and has a smooth, strong action – he believes he has put on pace – which has delivered more first-class wickets than anyone else this summer, and the joint most in Division One – 29 (at 13.8), with Kyle Abbott. It is greatly encouraging that even now he has been relegated from the new ball, with Ryan Sidebottom – who took three wickets of his own – and Jack Brooks reunited, trees are still being pulled up. There were plenty more wickets than bad balls.
By the time Coad came on, Sidebottom had taken two wickets in two balls. Alex Davies fenced to gully, then Luke Procter was caught behind leaving. He found a beauty to do for Hameed, but it is concerning that, for the first time, the locality of his off-stump appears to be vexing him. Coad began his third over by trapping Steven Croft in front and ended it having Shiv Chanderpaul caught at fourth slip; his next saw Dane Vilas caught behind.
Ryan McLaren counterattacked but, after Brooks returned to pin Jordan Clark in front, Sidebottom took him lbw. Lancashire were eight down at tea and Coad did for the tail afterwards, with Bailey poking to midwicket and Stephen Parry to second slip.
“We were a bit surprised that they batted and it was very helpful for seamers with it swinging around and seaming. It’s been a great day” said Coad, who rated this his best performance of the season. “We couldn’t have asked for anything more.”
Just 48.4 overs were possible because of light and rain at Lord’s, where Middlesex reduced Somerset to 80 for five only for Dean Elgar (77) and Lewis Gregory to double the score with an unbroken stand of 81. At the Ageas Bowl, Warwickshire enjoyed early success, reducing Hampshire to 31 for three, with two wickets for Keith Barker and one for the returning Boyd Rankin. Hampshire fought back through two old stagers, Jimmy Adams and Sean Ervine, reaching stumps at 294 without further loss, with both men making hundreds.
In Division Two the leaders, Nottinghamshire, were bowled out for 229 by winless Derbyshire with Steven Mullaney making 76. Without any of Stuart Broad, James Pattinson or Jake Ball for the first time this season, Notts must bowl smartly to pull off a win. At Hove, Sussex (captained by Chris Nash, who replaced Luke Wright) enjoyed a very strong day against Worcestershire, who left out Kohler-Cadmore, posting 339 for three with Luke Wells unbeaten on 139. At Chester-le-Street, Durham had Northamptonshire 59 for three at stumps after being bowled out for 166. Nathan Buck took six for 34.
The match between the defending champion, Garbiñe Muguruza, and the home favourite, Kristina Mladenovic, on Sunday will surely put a light under the women’s draw in the absence of the game’s biggest names, Serena Williams and Maria Sharapova, as well as the recently defeated world No1, Angelique Kerber.
If Mladenovic were to beat Muguruza, Roland Garros could hardly rise to greet her more enthusiastically than they did after two hours and 48 minutes of drama on Court Suzanne Lenglen on Friday, when Mladenovic recovered from 2-5 down in the third set to beat the American Shelby Rogers, 7-5, 4-6, 8-6.
The world No14 said: “That was epic. I still don’t know how I won. Shelby was playing great tennis. She played quarter-finals here last year and has a great game for clay. She really pushed me to the last breath I had.”
Muguruza, who has not hit the form she showed here a year ago, had a lesser struggle against the 27th seed Yulia Putintseva, taking an hour and 40 minutes to win 7-5, 6-2.
“The more matches I play and the tougher victories, I think they give you self-confidence,” Muguruza said. “The three matches I have played have not been easy at all. I’m happy I went out there without fear.”
She has a little more to be wary of against Mladenovic in the fourth round, as she realises. “Mladenovic is having a good year. She’s won a lot of matches. She’s at home,” she said.
The tall, powerful Spaniard admitted she struggles to keep thoughts of last year’s triumph at bay. “I remember last year when I was in the semi-finals I was thinking, like, I’m 25% [towards] lifting the trophy. That’s when I started to think about it. This year, I’m just focusing on my next opponent.”
Her next opponent will no doubt be similarly attentive to her homework and keen to avoid the sort of energy-draining angst that flooded on to her racket before a quite stirring fightback.
“I think it’s going to be also tough for her,” Mladenovic said. “It’s such a nice head to head coming up for everybody: for the tournament, for the crowd, for us. She’s obviously playing great tennis. I’m looking forward to this one.”
Acknowledging she enjoyed the excitement generated by the crowd, she said, “It’s true that, emotionally, it is all quite high at the moment but it’s something I like. It’s something I’m prepared for. It’s not my first time having so many high emotions, big wins, big moments.”
Novak Djokovic’s partnership with Andre Agassi has come under serious early pressure in the first week of the French Open. It might not see out the summer.
The defending champion remains on track for a semi-final against the tournament’s perennial prince, Rafael Nadal, but there are cracks showing in his fledgling coaching relationship with Agassi, who missed the first hour of his gruelling five-set struggle against the tough Argentinian Diego Schwartzman in the third round because of commitments with French television.
Asked what he thought of Agassi arriving in his box at 3-4 in the second set, Djokovic said: “He was not supposed to be here today, because we finished yesterday with our in-person collaboration here in Paris. He had many different things that he was supposed to do. He’s doing that. He managed to reschedule certain things and show up today, which was not planned. I appreciate that.”
Further asked about Agassi’s earlier statement on Eurosport that he was doing the gig for nothing, Djokovic said: “I’m not going to get into that but everything he said is completely true, so it’s completely his decision. I hope that’s going to stay for a long time that we can create something that is going to go long term. We don’t have anything set in stone. We had a great chat after the match. He’s going to try his best to be in the biggest tournaments with me as much as his family time allows and all the commitments that he has.”
Agassi had already told Djokovic that, after he is done here, he must leave to fulfil earlier commitments, possibly after his next match, against Albert Ramos-Viñolas, who beat Lucas Pouille, 6-2, 3-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-1 in fading light.
In an interview on Eurosport with Boris Becker, who guided the Serb to six of his 12 major victories before they ended their three-year relationship last December, Agassi revealed he was working at Roland Garros “on my own time, on my own dime, my own money”. No doubt his link with the tournament sponsors, Longines, will ease the financial burden of spending a week in Paris.
“I don’t want anything, I don’t need anything, I want to help him,” he said. Djokovic needed all the help he could get quelling Schwartzman’s determined challenge over three hours and 19 minutes.
There is something awry with the world No2’s tennis again, after a few encouraging weeks lately. There were some rough moments, none more awkward than at break point on his own serve, 4-0 up in the fourth. Djokovic received a time warning, then a code violation. He was not putting a lot of love the umpire’s way during a 5-7, 6-3, 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 win.
Agassi revealed a little of his tennis philosophy and how he might persuade Djokovic to switch from lights-out attack to more thoughtful ways of breaking opponents down.
“For me it’s simple. His game is built on controlling the baseline and executing to big targets. He’s not a guy that plays precisely to the lines. Occasionally if he’s on the defence he surprises you with this. He’s a guy that throws body blow after body blow after body blow and he’s just never thought a lot about the other side of the court. So I think there’s ways he can take his game at 30 years old – and older because hopefully he’s going to still want to play for a while – and he can start to make it easier for himself by knowing what to do across the net.”
He sounded equivocal about working with Djokovic at Wimbledon. “If he wants me there, I will come and figure it out. It is a lot of responsibility. Whatever is practical and achievable, 100% I will make the effort. I committed to him that, as long as he feels like I can help him, I will. Does he really need me somewhere in particular, does he need me in a week off, does he need me in a grand slam? We will figure this out as we go. A 100% I am committed to seeing him achieve what his dream is.”
Nadal spent probably as much time arranging his courtside water bottles as he did constructing 27 clear winners among 82 points to beat Nikoloz Basilashvili 6-0, 6-1, 6-0. The Georgian, who last year lost to Kyle Edmund in the first round, went downhill faster than Franz Klammer.
At the end patrons were treated to the rare spectacle of Nadal abandoning his hair-tugging, ball-bouncing rituals as he served out the match like a man with his pants on fire just as the first of the intermittent rain dumped on Court Philippe Chatrier. “Today was one of the best matches I have ever played, without a doubt,” Nadal said later.
If he and Djokovic do clash for a place in the final, the odds would be with the Spaniard, who has won 20 of 21 matches on clay this season. This was his 100th best-of-five match on his favourite surface. Only Robin Soderling here in 2009 and Djokovic two years ago have prevailed against him, a phenomenal record.
Before the quarter-finals Nadal will celebrate his 31st birthday on Saturday then, if all goes well, follow it with a win over his compatriot, Roberto Bautista Agut, who beat Jiri Vesely 6-3, 6-4, 6-3.
Portsmouth have appointed Kenny Jackett as their new manager. The 55-year-old has signed a two-year deal with the newly promoted Sky Bet League One club, two days after Paul Cook quit to take charge of Wigan.
“This is a fantastic opportunity for me and I’m looking forward to getting started. It’s an exciting challenge,” Jackett told Pompey’s official website.
“This club has a passionate fanbase and they can be a 12th man for us. Hopefully we can build on the momentum of last season and continue to progress.
“I can promise that I’ll work as hard as I possibly can to make sure that we can bring success to Portsmouth.”
The club said they were “in advanced talks” with Joe Gallen about him becoming assistant manager.
Jackett, who has won promotion from League One with both Millwall and Wolves, had been out of work since resigning as Rotherham manager in November.
Cook left Fratton Park on Wednesday after guiding Pompey to the League Two title with victory over Cheltenham on the final day.
“We’re delighted to announce Kenny as our new manager. He ticks so many boxes for us,” Pompey’s chief executive, Mark Catlin, said. “He’s managed big clubs with big expectations in the past and has plenty of experience of getting sides out of League One.”
“Three months ago some people wanted to strangle him,” Massimiliano Allegri said with a smile, but that night they just wanted to hug him. The story goes that when Dani Alves arrived at Juventus, Gigi Buffon took him to one side and asked him to teach them how to win the Champions League. He might not be able to do that exactly but Allegri was speaking just after Alves had taken them to Cardiff, delivering the pass for the first goal and volleying home the second in Monaco. He had already provided two assists in the first leg of the semi-final in Turin, one with a superb backheel. Juventus were in the final again, two years after they lost to Barcelona in Berlin– when Alves was on the other team.
On the other side this time, facing him, will be Marcelo, who after Real Madrid’s recent clásico defeat bemoaned: “It’s my fault.” His crime: not committing the foul that might have prevented Lionel Messi from winning it. Few noticed then that he had provided the late assist for James Rodríguez to equalise in the first place – but they did when six days later he scored late to tighten Madrid’s grip on the title. Five days before that, he had finally broken Bayern Munich, in the 109th minute of the Champions League quarter-final, weaving through, hurdling challenges and leaving Ronaldo an open goal to finish off the German champions.
And so here they are, meeting again, this time in Cardiff on Saturday. International team-mates and for so long opponents in club football’s biggest rivalry: two “defenders” who are so much more than that. Full-backs? Footballers, full stop. Brilliant, too. Brazilians, both. Different, breaking the mould. “I don’t want to be just another player,” Alves says, and he is not. Nor is Marcelo. Automatons? No, thanks. Better to embrace the game, enjoy it – and, lest it be forgotten, win it too. Between them they have 53 trophies in total, soon to be 54. They are key men, arguably even the key men, in the best two teams in Europe.
Over the years it has not been hard to find their critics, but seek them among their own and it is a different matter; even some will admit these are men who can take a bit of getting used to. They cannot defend, detractors say, but that line is as facile as it is flawed. It also feels as if it goes beyond football: if you dare to smile, as they do, the accusation deepens, as if the sport has to be a deadly serious business, as if enjoying it means you are not committed, when they clearly are.
Every squad needs personalities – “contagious” is the word Zinedine Zidane uses to describe Marcelo – and fun does not equal frivolous; you do not play for eight years at Barcelona and a decade at Madrid without dedication. Juventus do not sign you and Barcelona do not decline without you; if they thought they would not miss Alves, they were wrong. “People automatically think that because you attack, you can’t defend. Not true,” Alves said. That was five years ago but it could have been yesterday. He has not changed; it is others who have, some recognising his contribution late, a process that finds parallels with Marcelo, now more than ever.
It should not have taken so long. It is not just that it is false that they cannot defend; it is, Alves says, that the terms need tying down. “What,” he asks, “is ‘defend’? That no one ever dribbles or attacks? Bloody hell, football would be boring, wouldn’t it? You can prepare [only] to defend but then the guy dribbles past you anyway ... what, you think you’re the only one that’s quick? If you ‘defend’, you don’t attack; if you ‘attack’, you don’t defend? What’s football for? To win. And to win you have to score more. The winner isn’t [just] the team that defends incredibly; if you defend well but don’t score, it’s worthless.”
Even in Brazil, they have not always rushed to embrace the pair. There may have been occasional doubts – Marcelo did not start the 2014 final against Atlético Madrid in Lisbon and Alves’s relationship with the Barcelona board was always fraught – but what they offer far outweighs any flaws. If they attack, it is because their managers want them to, because they are good at it. They are following orders, not breaking them. They have played well over 1,000 games between them, at the most demanding clubs on earth.
Marcelo started playing what Brazilians call futsal and Spaniards fútbol sala – indoor five-a-side – at the age of four. His brother-in-law plays professionally and in his first couple of years at Madrid Marcelo would often escape to play too, even joining competitions. In an interview with a futsal magazine, among the few he has given, he admitted he would like to see out his career on the court rather than the pitch, back where it began. Marcelo’s brother-in-law highlights his “dribbling and technical skill, the ability to improvise to get out of difficult situations when no one thinks he can”.
In part, that is inheritance rather than coincidence: Marcelo and Alves are products of their environment and experience. Futsal is played with a smaller, heavier ball that flies round the court, almost always on the floor; a game of touch, speed, technique and thought. “I had the pleasure of playing futsal at school,” Alves said. “And what it gives you is intelligence: it’s a sport where you need to use your head. There’s very little space, the marking is very tight, so you need to be smart, very quick thinking. In football people who have that intelligence have a big advantage over others.”
It is not just that they are “defenders” who attack; it is that they are defenders who play; it is the way they attack. Full-backs bombing up the line are one thing, Alves and Marcelo are something else: they come inside, take responsibility, create, seek one-twos, take people on – and not just with the drop of a shoulder and a burst of speed, as if they were No10s, only in the wrong position. “Full-back” is just a clue and sometimes it is a red herring.
This season Marcelo has been arguably Madrid’s best player. At Sevilla everything went through Alves. At Barcelona he provided more assists than anyone in Spain, after Messi. At Juventus, he has created more chances than anyone in the Champions League. “Did you see him?” asked a beaming Allegri after he performed so superbly against Monaco. “Did you see his assists? That’s what a central playmaker does.”
It is similar to what Marcelo does too. Jorge Valdano says: “He brings the ball out with outstanding naturalness and ease; he goes through the middle of the pitch as if it was his own home and, when he gets to the top of the pitch, he has the solutions a forward has. We’re used to full-backs like Gordillo or Roberto Carlos who plough the wing; Marcelo goes by planting flowers.”
As for Alves, Giorgio Chiellini admitted he was “crazy for our culture” and that assimilating him was “hard at first”, but he was “like Messi”, on “another level technically”. So here they are, Brazilians of similar spirit, players who love to play. In purple is Marcelo, seeking his third European Cup in four years; in black and white Dani Alves chasing his third treble in eight seasons, and his 34th major title. It is not bad for two defenders who cannot defend. Who wins no one knows yet but it should be fun finding out.
All eight teams competing in the Champions Trophy are here now; all can harbour thoughts of winning it. It takes five wins in a row to be guaranteed the delight of raising the cup to the skies in south London on 18 June. This is a far more palatable format for the players than the World Cup because no time is wasted. It is far more palatable for the fans as well. If the sun continues to shine the tournament will be a success.
From 1 June to 12 June there will be a match every day at one of three venues – The Oval, Edgbaston and Cardiff – followed swiftly by semi-finals and the final at the Oval. The likeliest teams to contest those semi-finals are Australia and England from Group A and India and South Africa from Group B. But take nothing for granted. There are no easy games .
The tournament kicks off with England playing against Bangladesh at the Oval. No problem there, then. Except that the last time these two teams met in an ICC competition, in Adelaide two years ago, Bangladesh deservedly won by 15 runs and therefore proceeded to the quarter-finals of the World Cup, unlike England.
Long gone are the days when Bangladesh felt overawed by any opponents. We can reel off their key batsmen without thinking. Tamim Iqbal, Mushfiqur Rahman, Shakib al Hasan and Mahmudullah are still going strong. Moreover, the pitches are dry and tend to be brown at the Oval and that is how Bangladesh – who beat New Zealand on Wednesday and lost to Pakistan on Saturday – like them.
The following day Australia meet New Zealand at Edgbaston, so Australia are bound to win that one. Except that New Zealand often reserve their best for when they are playing their noisy neighbours from across the Tasman. And there are the talents of Kane Williamson, Martin Guptill, Trent Boult and Tim Southee to consider.
Even without Brendon McCullum at the helm the Kiwis can beat anyone provided they are not too distracted by the remarkable explanation of their old team-mate, Doug Bracewell, when faced with a drink-driving offence back home. His lawyer used the Python defence. This revolved around a dead parrot, or cockatoo, which belonged to his increasingly distraught girlfriend. Bracewell raced home to offer consolation despite having taken a drink or two. In the end he pleaded guilty and took his punishment.
The Australians may be distracted by something more serious: the dispute between Cricket Australia and the Australian Cricketers’ Association over their contracts. David Warner, potentially one of the most devastating openers in the competition, has been more vociferous than most on this topic, even suggesting that players would forego playing in the Ashes this winter if necessary. Perhaps we may view Warner as Australia’s 21st-century Arthur Scargill. In which case he must be wary of the Scargill Shot, which has been played by many golfers as well as the odd opening batsman who does not quite evade the boundary fielder – “a good strike but where did it get you?”
Even more pertinently, Australia are the side with pace. It is a rare occurrence to find Mitchell Starc, Pat Cummins and James Pattinson fit simultaneously and the ever-reliable Josh Hazlewood is no slouch. Whether pace will be a great asset on three surfaces that are now usually brown, slow and true remains to be seen.
The old theory was that England prospered in ODI cricket when playing on juicy seamer-friendly pitches, which produce relatively low-scoring games. The template has changed now. With so many free-flowing players they prefer tracks where the batsmen can swing through the line with impunity.
Such benign surfaces encourage the presence of wrist-spinners, who can do something surprising. Australia have an interesting one, Adam Zampa, though perhaps the best in the world at the moment will not be playing, since Rashid Khan represents Afghanistan.
In Group B, there will be a selection of wrist-spinners as well. Oddly, India do not have one but they can rely on the tried and trusted Ravi’s, Ashwin and Jadeja. South Africa lean on the ubiquitous Imran Tahir, now 38. Twenty years younger than him is Pakistan’s Shadab Khan, who has played three ODIs. Sri Lanka have two back-of-the-hand men, Seekkuge Prasanna and the left-armer Lakshan Sandakan.
In that group Pakistan, now under the leadership of their wicketkeeper, Sarfraz Ahmed, are not expected to prevail. So they are bound to be dangerous. It was hard to banish a smile when learning that Umar Akmal has been jettisoned from the squad by the chairman of selectors because he has not paid sufficient attention to his fitness. That chairman is Inzamam-ul-Haq, who, when captain of Pakistan, spent much of his time in a wicker chair on the outfield when he was not batting in the nets on practice days.
Meanwhile, Sri Lanka must find it a wee bit frustrating to see that Kumar Sangakkara, now retired from international cricket, has scored yet another century for Surrey. If available he might just still squeak into their side, even though he tends to stick to the old-fashioned ploy of hitting the ball between the fielders rather than over their heads.
At the final whistle on a hot, fun, slightly wild afternoon at Wembley, Arsène Wenger crouched on the touchline and roared, not quite with abandon, but with a genuine sense of release, and even of anger. Cuffs still crisply buttoned, wasp-waisted in black slacks, Wenger eventually sank into a familiar double fist-pump, knees bent, like a man at a wedding performing a slow, heartfelt air-maracas solo.
Twenty minutes later he was there again climbing the Wembley steps with his players to face the royal party and the coyly gleaming trophy. Arsenal’s 2-1 defeat of Chelsea means Wenger now has seven FA Cup winners’ medals, more than any other manager, and as many as Chelsea and Liverpool in their entire respective histories. His first Cup as a coach was the Coupe De France 27 years ago. For all the vicissitudes of the job, the draining obsession, it seems pretty clear the sweetness is still there to be sucked from moments like these.
But then this has been a uniquely gruelling season, caught up in the strangest of long goodbyes, with energies sapped by stasis on and off the pitch, and by the “hostile environment” Wenger suggested afterwards had derailed his team at vital moments. Never mind that this hostility stemmed from guileless performances in the first place. You don’t get to be a Premier League manager for 20 years straight without a degree of galvanising stubbornness.
Even in the moment of victory Wenger fielded questions in the bowels of Wembley’s media suite about his own future, insisting against all reason that things were still unclear, that there are still issues to be resolved. A board meeting on Tuesday will surely provide a full-stop on this saga one way or another. For all the joy of the moment here Wenger did sound, for the first time in public, like a man who might just be on his way out. For what it’s worth, and for the first time, he even kept his medal.
Wenger aside it was a genuinely sensational Cup final. This despite the fact Chelsea basically didn’t turn up for the first half, lost a man with 20 minutes to go and fielded a double player of the year who somehow managed to look like he had wandered in from the shopping centre next door and was a little too polite to stop someone and ask the way out.
Before kick-off the oldest cup competition looked in boisterous good health. Wembley was a vast, seething noise pit, with a genuine crackle of event-glamour in the air. The anthem was a banger, the fireworks just right, the noise inside the stadium unrelenting, pre-match silence impeccably observed.
At which point, Arsenal simply seized the game. For all the cult of managerial personality, it is players who make teams and for long periods at Wembley it wasn’t Wenger’s endless farewell that seemed the more urgent topic but the fate of Alexis Sánchez, who may or may not be prepared to sign a vast new contract.
Sánchez was a fizzing little ball of muscle and vim in the first half, scoring the opening goal with the help of his own handball-assist. Around him a team that seemed to be turning putrid in midwinter, so many points surrendered, so many forgettable afternoons, played with real verve.
Victor Moses was discomfited throughout by Danny Welbeck’s vigour and a natural tendency to pull out to his side. A second yellow card midway through the second half for diving capped a wretched afternoon. N’Golo Kanté was hurried and harried as Granit Xhaka, Mesut Özil and Aaron Ramsey pulled themselves up to their full height and asserted their own game of pass and move. At the back Per Mertesacker was majestic. Faced with the dreadful Diego Costa, Arsenal’s captain was clean in the challenge and read the game around him brilliantly in an unfamiliar role at the heart of the back three.
Sánchez’s fifth-minute opener was a strange thing, awarded after he had volleyball-blocked the ball over the Chelsea defence. Aaron Ramsey was offside in front of him, but shrunk away from the ball, allowing Sánchez to skitter through and finish with the outside of his right foot. Chelsea protested. They would have been better served simply playing to the whistle.
Arsenal continued to play with real verve and might have been 3-0 up at half-time. The only real wobbles appeared after the interval as Chelsea surged, looking, for the first time, like their own Conte-issue champion selves. Costa equalised, only for Ramsey to stoop and head the winner.
At the end, as the Wembley turf swirled with the familiar paraphernalia of victory, Wenger continued to weave about the turf, hugging his players, eventually moving over towards the wall of red and white Arsenal fans, a little shyly perhaps, but taking a unanimous rolling wave of applause. Wenger waved, both hands aloft, not quite a wave of goodbye.
It is to be hoped that whenever it comes that farewell will be conducted with warmth and grace and without the antsiness that has crept into Wenger’s relations with the board and the stands. There is a feeling Wenger might be involved still in brinkmanship with his board, to be still negotiating over directors of football and conditions of his retention. If so, the verve of his team here, the gleam of another medal, might just tip the balance, might even stave off that goodbye a little longer.
Picture a professional footballer at one of the best clubs in Europe this season. Think about his exorbitant wages in a part of the world where he does not even pay taxes. Think about Monaco, the lifestyle, the casino, the sophistication, the wealth. Now think about Bernardo Silva and rethink everything.
The Portuguese playmaker is the antithesis of the average elite-level player. The cliches simply do not apply to him. In Monaco he lived in a tiny one-bedroom flat with a small kitchen. He cleaned the dishes because he did not have a dishwasher and he hung out his smalls to dry on his modest balcony.
Of course, the sea view was impressive but with all the money he earned - pounds 30,000 a week - he could have splashed out on a huge house on the outskirts of the city with all mod cons and then some, but no. That is not Bernardo Silva. He does not do ostentation and extravagance. He does not get tattoos and fancy watches, Ferraris or private jets. He is different.
But, while Silva is just a regular guy, he is no regular player. At 22 - he will be 23 in August - Silva was the brains behind the Monaco side that took Ligue 1 and Europe by storm this season. He sees things before everybody else: the space, the pass, the run. He always plays on the move. His movement off the ball is sensational. There cannot be a more intelligent player than him and that is why Pep Guardiola made Silva his first summer signing. Guardiola loves a smart player.
Silva also knows when to slow down play and when to accelerate it - not so much quick-on-the-ball but quick-thinking. Of all his attributes, however, the most impressive of them is his control of the ball. “Bernardo Silva? I call him bubble gum because the ball is glued to his foot. I could pay to watch him play,” said Benjamin Mendy, the Monaco left-back after their team won the league this month for the first time in 17 years.
Another team-mate, Jemerson, the centre-back, says Silva is magic and not of this world. “At training and during matches he does incredible things. You think he is about to lose the ball but no, it is still there between his feet. You don’t even know how he did it. He is a magician although I call him the elf because of the weird shape of his ears,” said the former Atletico Mineiro player, laughing.
Silva is also a gentleman on the pitch. He never moans or sulks and is always fair. Complaining, brawling or losing is not part of his education but thinking quickly has always been. “He always knew that he could never win the physical battle because he was always the smallest and lightest so he always wondered how to avoid the challenges,” says Pepa, his former manager at the Benfica under-17 team. “That’s why today he is always two or three steps ahead when he receives the ball.”
The similarities with a certain David Silva, already at City of course, are quite obvious. That’s why Bernardo’s move to City makes so much sense. He is the heir to David, the one who will replace him. Same talent, same profile, same style, same left foot, same qualities, same height even (1.73m). For Guardiola he is the perfect player. He is versatile. He can play behind the striker or wide, a bit deeper or even in a box-to-box role - like David again.
Three years after Bernardo Silva arrived in Monaco for euros 15m (pounds 12.1m) from Benfica, where he was not even training with the first team, he is already leaving. Monaco could not say no to the huge offer made by City. In the three seasons in the principality, the Jorge Mendes protege has gone from strength to strength. He became a full Portuguese international, although he missed last summer’s European Championship through injury and has just had the best season of his career with eight goals and nine assists in Ligue 1.
He has developed into a special player worth every penny spent by Manchester City. He has become a big-game player as well. He scored against Villarreal in the Champions League qualifier, Tottenham in the group stages, a last-minute equaliser in Paris in the league which proved the turning point in the domestic season, another goal in Marseille, assists against Manchester City and Marseille again. “We could not take the ball away from him, it was incredible. I admire the player he is,” said Hugo Lloris after Spurs were beaten twice by Monaco in the Champions League. The Portuguese playmaker is ready to go on to something bigger: Ligue 1’s and Monaco’s loss is the Premier League’s and Manchester City’s gain.
Gianni Infantino – ending year one of Fifa 2.0 by terminating his ethics team and attacking “fake news and alternative facts”: “Fifa bashing has become a sport in some countries. But we’re transparent. We’re a deeply honest organisation.”
• Defining the new 2.0 ethos: restraint at executive level. Infantino said his reduced £1.15m basic plus bonus, car, house, flowers budget and £1,542 a month expenses “reflects more than any word my strong will to end the type of behaviour that has, in the past, led to abuses”.
Also from Fifa in 2016-17:
• Best newcomer: £1m-a-year general secretary Fatma Samoura, in charge of Fifa’s internal austerity, found by auditors to be spending £22k of Fifa’s money on having her home cleaned five times a week. Fifa says Samoura repaid the sum “when she discovered the issue”.
• Best ambassador: Diego Maradona – meeting the press in February as Fifa’s goodwill ambassador – denying he hit a reporter who asked him a question: “I didn’t hit. If I hit you, you wouldn’t have a nose left. One on one, I’d destroy you.”
• And moving on: Nigerian executive Amos Adamu, retraining as a clergyman after picking up his second long-term Fifa ethics ban in March. “You know, I’ve had enough of football politics. My calling is different now, my life has changed. I’m back in the seminary to serve God.”
Aug 2012: Fifa Fair Play and Social Responsibility executive Kirsten Nematandani hosts a two-day Interpol “Integrity in Sport” workshop, attacking match-fixing as “a cancer that robs the game of its innocence. This is a wonderful chance to learn more of this threat.” Dec 2016: Nematandani banned for five years for match-fixing.
Uli Hoeness – paroled €27.2m tax evasion convict and reinstated Bayern president – on fitting back in to football in January: “I have become more reflective, tolerant and humble. But I think I still have a relatively good reputation in the international football world. It appears not to have suffered.”
Football’s Fit and Proper test, ending another strong season by clearing Evangelos Marinakis to buy Forest. Marinakis, who denies alleged match-fixing and was previously accused of having a refereee’s bakery blown up but faced no action, says he’ll bring stability: “For me, football is a way of life.”
• Also giving back this season: a) Blackpool’s Karl Oyston – banned in 2015 for calling a fan “a massive retard special needs fuctard” – barring protesters unless they sign “acceptable behaviour orders”; b) Francesco Becchetti, taking Orient towards liquidation having spent the year fighting a failed Albanian extradition attempt on disputed fraud charges; c) Coventry, deflecting protests against owners Sisu while backing the League’s “Enjoy the Match” campaign in October: “Here at Coventry City we want our fans to have the best possible experience on a matchday, and leave smiling, no matter the result”; and d) Massimo Cellino: leaving Leeds after seven managers and three bans. His day one message in 2014: “Leeds fans have had enough eating shit and shutting their mouths. I want to make them proud again.”
Aston Villa owner @Dr_TonyXia - talking to Villa fans on Twitter in March: “#We are a team. #Fight through …. I didn’t buy Villa 4 business purpose. I never expected making money from it”; and talking to Bloomberg in Beijing: “If we didn’t buy Villa, we would have entered the industry through other means. Now we have control of Villa, we will leverage this opportunity and use it to further our business in the sports industry.”
Italy: New Palermo president Paul Baccaglini – TV personality, nude model and founder of a 2009 joke political party based on lemons (slogan “Yes, We Lemon”) - reassuring fans in March over his credibility: “I’m not some ex-con drug dealer.”
1) Romania, 12 Sep: CSM Poli Iaşi chairman Florin Prunea defends coach Nicolò Napoli: “Fans are shouting, but it’s way too much to ask me to sack him. I won’t even think about sacking him.” 5 Oct: Thinks about it. 6 Oct: Sacks him.
2) Germany, 29 Nov: Darmstadt president Rüdiger Fritsch on coach Norbert Meier: “Listen, if sacking a coach guaranteed success, every club would do it every four weeks. Studies show 99.1% of the time it achieves nothing. Other clubs around us did it and did it help them? No. It’s not a panacea like people think. Calmness and consistency – that’s the answer.” 6 Dec: Sacks him.
And 3) Petersfield manager John Robson: going home at half-time of their 4-2 loss to Kidlington in March. Chairman Graeme Moir: “He told the players in the dressing room: ‘that’s it’, and then drove off … It’s been a frustrating time for everyone.”
Sam Allardyce, reflecting on his £2m bonus pre-season for keeping Sunderland up, a £1m payoff for 67 days of his £6m England contract and a £2m bonus for 21 games of his £2.5m Palace deal: “There comes a time when you have to take stock.”
Dimitri Payet, Feb 2016: “I’m proud to prolong my adventure with West Ham. The love affair continues.” Mar 2017: “I had no desire to play in the lower reaches of the Premier League. You could say that I was pissed off, yes.”
Romania: Botosani coach Leo Grozavu, denying he hit a subbed player in March (“I don’t hit, there’s no way I hit”) - then resigning when footage emerged of him doing it. “I present my resignation. It is a matter of honour that I do so. Good character is what matters.”
Argentina U20 coach Gerardo Salorio, 57, suspended in February for climbing fencing to fight fans. “People call me old, a drunk, but I just climbed to find the haters. I’ve said a thousand sorries, but I’m feeling like Jesus to be honest - everyone at me for no reason.”
Chile: Colo-Colo, looking to fix their form in October with reported “basic witchcraft” – planting “eight superstitious bushes” and having staff “smear eight litres of vinegar over the locker room with rags”. Coach Pablo Guede: “It’s not my idea, but it’s normal.”
Brazil: Vila Nova defender Marcelo Cordeiro, “unsettled” in October after a clip of him and Goias forward Rossi pretending to have been headbutted by each other went viral. “I couldn’t take the risk of not doing it. That’s life. That’s the game we’re in.”
Brezilya Serie B'de Goiás forması giyen Rossi ile Vila Nova oyuncusu Marcelo Cordeiro arasında elektriklenme! Etki-Tepki pic.twitter.com/R3C38UZWCS
Twitter’s @TheRealMikeDean, US hip hop producer, facing down haters in January: “i’m not a reff”; “wrong mike dean”; “soccer is wack”; and “I AM NOT A SOCCER REFF U LIMEY F***. DO YOUR RESEARCH.”
Belgium: Mechelen defender Uros Vitas - “resilient” after his torso tattoo of his wife’s face went viral in February. “It is easy to mock, but Snezane is everything in the world to me. It turned out how it turned out. There are no regrets.”
KVM-speler Uros Vitas laat gezicht van zijn vrouw op zijn lichaam tatoeëren https://t.co/Yu1uVv0YUQ pic.twitter.com/NjY1zyVWZw
Brazil: Stray dog Zulu, chasing Goiás left-back Juninho during a Serie B game in Pelotas in September. Juninho said he panicked because “you can’t tell with dogs”; locals told RBS TV that Zulu is “just soppy. If he sees a ball, he goes chasing.”
Brazil, September: Miss Bumbum 2016 contender Danny Morais – cousin of 2015 finalist Sabrina Boing Boing – wrestling a steward at Grêmio before chasing players across the pitch: “Of course I never expected such media attention from this. I only ever follow my heart.”
Arsène Wenger described winning his seventh FA Cup as one of the proudest moments of his career because of the criticism he faced this season, before going on to criticise some of the supporters who would like him removed for creating a hostile environment in matches.
Arsenal produced a surprisingly spiky performance to beat the favourites Chelsea 2-1. They were also unfancied against Manchester City in the semi-final, and Wenger paid tribute to his side’s resilience and fighting spirit. “You cannot get two tougher opponents, but we produced two outstanding performances,” the Arsenal manager said. “That is what makes me particularly proud, because no one gave us a chance at Wembley and we responded with attitude and class. We had an outstanding performance from the first minute onwards. This team has suffered, but they’ve united and responded. They showed strength and unity and played spectacular football.”
Wenger said before the game that this occasion was not about him becoming the first manager to win seven FA Cups, but he allowed himself to reflect on the achievement for a moment at least. “I’m proud having done this - winning the championship without losing and winning seven FA Cups.”
Wenger feels class has been somewhat lacking in some of the terrace demonstrations against him and his team this season. “I am in a public job, I know I have to face criticism and I accept that,” he said. “I don’t mind facing criticism from supporters or from journalists, I will always try to answer it if I can, but once the game starts you should stand behind your team. Some of what has been going on during games this season has been unacceptable in my view. If you are a fan you should support your team. We have played some games in quite a hostile environment and I don’t think that has been helpful.”
Wenger’s future at Arsenal is expected to be resolved one way or the other this week, with the manager claiming to still be in the dark about the way the board’s decision will go. “I know what I would like to happen, but I don’t know exactly what will happen,” he said. “I don’t feel that winning the Cup will necessarily change anything. It would be a bit ridiculous were 20 years of service to be decided by the result of one game, and neither should the future of the club depend on a single game.”
So much for the idea that Wenger might choose to bow out on a high after winning the Cup. Many thought there would be no better time to step down but Wenger is already thinking in terms of next season. “There is no perfect time to depart, I just want to do what is best for the club,” he said. “It is not about popularity, it is about competence. You can see from today that we are a good side that can get better still with a little strengthening, I spend every minute of my season with commitment to this club. I refused to give up hope and so did my team. That’s what makes me so proud, and if I am still here next season I will have the same attitude.”
On Wenger’s future, Aaron Ramsey, scorer of the winning goal, said: “Of course I want him to stay at the club. He deserves this. We changed the formation and had a lot of success. Fair play to him, he changed the system. Hopefully, he’ll be there next season.”
Antonio Conte is also looking forward to next season but only after a deserved rest. “Two key moments went against us today – there was a clear handball for the first goal and then maybe we were unlucky to go down to 10 men – but we have still had an incredible season,” the Chelsea manager said. “We started badly today, I must admit. Even if the first goal should not have been given we still took almost half an hour to get going. The most important thing now is to take a break and reflect on what we have done. It didn’t look promising at the start of the season, starting from 10th place, but every player gave 100% over the course of the campaign and we didn’t have any injuries.
“That makes us lucky, but also a bit tired. The players put all of themselves into their work, but next season there will be even more games because of the Champions League. We will have to improve the squad in both number and quality. Over the summer we must be very cold and analyse the situation.”
Vegas is betting against them and the bookies are hardly alone.
Let’s be honest, not many are giving the Cleveland Cavaliers much of a chance in the NBA finals. They may be defending champions and they may have LeBron James, but against Golden State, they are definite underdogs.
Just don’t try to tell them that.
“The whole underdog thing is funny to me, because yeah, at the end of the day we are defending our title,” Cavs forward Kevin Love said following Saturday’s practice. “We’re trying to repeat, which is so hard to do. I think we will use it as fuel. We will use it as motivation, but the idea of playing into it? It’s tough for me to say that is the case. I don’t feel like we’re underdogs.
“We match up well with them and I think they’d say the same about us.”
Maybe, but as the teams gear up for Thursday night’s series opener in Oakland, comments made by Warriors forward Draymond Green in October are reverberating around Cleveland.
Still stinging after the Warriors blew a 3-1 lead in last year’s finals against Cleveland, the vociferous Green, who was suspended from Game 5, said if given the chance again, he plans to “destroy and annihilate” the Cavs.
Love complimented Green’s competitiveness and aimed a verbal volley at Northern California.
“He’s a guy who said he wanted us,” Love said, “and he has us – starting next Thursday.”
Act III in this trilogy is overloaded with story lines, with the biggest being whether James and Co. have enough firepower to go toe-to-toe with the Warriors, who added superstar Kevin Durant to a team that won 73 games a year ago before its finals flameout.
Golden State has glowed in this postseason, becoming the first team to start 12-0 while winning by an average of 16.3 points per game – the highest margin league history. It’s no wonder then that the wise guys have installed the Warriors as heavy favorites to beat the Cavs for the second time in three years and wrestle back the Larry O’Brien Trophy that slipped through their hands last June.
James referred to the Warriors as only “that juggernaut” and “a beast” following Thursday’s Game 5 in at Boston, a night in which he passed Michael Jordan as the career postseason scoring leader.
James elected not to talk about the Warriors following the game, choosing instead to celebrate a third straight conference title in Cleveland and his seventh consecutive finals trip. James didn’t speak to reporters on Saturday either, leaving Love to serve as the team’s unofficial spokesman as the sports world inched closer to a matchup that seemed destined from the moment last season’s finals ended.
Love was asked if the Cavs wanted the Warriors.
“Want the Warriors?” he said. “They’ve been right at the top, best team in the league for three years straight now. They’ve been super-impressive. It’s kind of in our minds that that’s who we were going to see. They played great basketball this year. Obviously adding an MVP to a team that already has a two-time MVP makes them even more impressive. It’s tough to say that we didn’t expect it; we knew they’d be right there.”
After the team returned from Boston in the wee hours Friday morning, Cavs coach Tyronn Lue didn’t go to bed and immediately began working on a game plan to stifle Golden State’s powerful, multi-faceted offense.
Lue knows the Cavs are facing a difficult task, one made tougher with the addition of the versatile Durant, who can score down low, from the perimeter and free-throw line.
The Warriors are using Durant the way he envisioned, but Lue has noticed changes in the All-Star.
“He’s moving around a lot more,” he said. “Just watching him move without the basketball, getting easy baskets off of cuts and splits and when he passes the ball he’s also relocating now. He’s doing a lot more movement, which makes it even tougher to guard after being one of the tougher scorers I’ve ever seen.”
Lue said didn’t deliver any inspiring speech to his players before practice.
Words don’t mean much now – not his, not – and neither do underdog labels.
“We’re not going to use that as motivation,” Lue said. “We’re in the NBA finals. That’s enough motivation alone. Not worry about what it says in Vegas or what people are saying about underdogs. We’re not using that as an excuse. We’ve got to come out and play. Our goals were set at the beginning of the season, and that’s to win a championship. So, that’s what we’re focused on.”
And remember, the Cavs have overcome long odds before.
For Kell Brook it was a night that promised so much but ended in gut-wrenching failure. In front of his own people, at a venue he fell in love with as a child, the 31-year-old was determined to triumph, but ultimately he was defeated by the American Errol Spence Jr via an 11th round stoppage, losing his IBF welterweight title in the process and suffering the sort of setback that it may take him some time to recover from.
That much could be taken from Brook’s expression as he contemplated his second successive defeat, having been stopped inside five rounds by Gennady Golovkin nine months ago. He looked broken and beaten, and yet again it was an eye injury that played a part in his downfall. Brook’s right eye had been broken at the hands of Golovkin at the 02 Arena in London, leading to his trainer Dominic Ingle throwing in the towel. Here it was the Sheffield man’s left eye which took a pounding, and while there was no intervention from Ingle, there was also no chance of Brook continuing through heavily restricted vision as Spence unloaded a barrage of shots to his opponent’s body.
Brook fell to his knee, going down for the second time in this contest and the referee, Howard Foster, called an end to proceedings one minute and 47 seconds into the penultimate round. As Spence celebrated, many of the 27,000-plus crowd headed for the exits. Many more, however, remained and applauded Brook for the spirit he showed in what must have been almost unbearable circumstances, fighting in almost total darkness against a high-class opponent.
Eddie Hearn later confirmed Brook was being treated in hospital for a fractured eye socket. “It’s the same injury as [sustained against] Golovkin, but in the other eye which is unbelievable. But no complaints, Kell was beaten by the better man.”
Spence, a 27-year-old Texan, arrived on these shores with a 21-0-0 professional record and a reputation as one of the smartest, deadliest fighters around, with Sugar Ray Leonard describing him as “the real deal”.
The question was whether he could live up to the hype in his first contest outside north America and ultimately he did, going from mandatory challenger for Brook’s IBF crown to the latest world champion in the welterweight division.
“He’s one of the best kids I’ve been in with – if not the best,” said Brook. “I got caught in the seventh round in the left eye. The double vision just stuck.”
A fascination before this fight was how Brook would cope coming back down two weight divisions having faced Golovkin at middleweight last September. Brook has made no secret of the difficulty he has boiling down to the 147lb limit but he ultimately decided to go through the pain again, and entered the ring here amid an expectedly fervent atmosphere, a capacity crowd making no secret of their allegiance on a cool evening in south Yorkshire.
This was Brook’s first fight at a place he first visited two decades ago as an awestruck Sheffield United fan with his Uncle Johnny, the man who predicted Brook would one day return here as a headline fighter. This, then, was not just a fight for Brook but the fulfilment of a family ambition, and if there were any nerves on his part they did not initially show.
The first round was a cagey affair in which the champion worked well behind his jab. Spence Jr started to show his skills from his tricky southpaw stance in the second, connecting with a right jab and hook, but Brook replied with a counter overhand left. Both fighters traded further shots in the third but here came the first genuine indication that the challenger had what it took to worry the champion, forcing him to stumble back with one testing right hook.
The fourth and fifth rounds saw a further trading of blows. It was compelling, too-tight-to-call stuff and it was only in the seventh when the tide truly turned.
The swelling around Brook’s eye became particularly noticeable in the eighth, and while he continued to battle hard and apply pressure it was obvious he was in trouble. Two rounds later he hit the canvas for the first time after being pushed against the ropes by a flurry of heavy punches from his American opponent. He survived Foster’s count but could not do the same in the next round.
“I live to fight another day but I’m gutted that, in front of my home fans, I’ve lost my belt,” said Brook, whose record now stands at 36-2-0. Where he goes next is a matter of intrigue. After recovering from yet another painful injury he may pursue a rematch or even decide to move up to light-middleweight, or even back to 160lb.
For Spence Jr, the sky appears the limit. Sugar Ray was right all along.
There was a mix of relief and ecstasy for George Groves in Sheffield on Saturday night after he became a world champion at the fourth time of asking with his sixth-round stoppage of the Russian Fedor Chudinov. Groves claimed the vacant WBA super‑middleweight title with a gutsy display at Bramall Lane, the home of Sheffield United. The 29-year-old had been put on the back foot for the opening three rounds but eventually exerted pressure over Chudinov and secured victory after his opponent failed to respond to a barrage of shots.
Groves’s three previous title attempts – against Carl Froch, twice, and Badou Jack – had ended in disappointment and he admitted beforehand that it was a case of now or never. Groves was confident, though, having won his four bouts since losing to Jack in September 2015 and having teamed up with the trainer Shane McGuigan.
Groves also maintained a size and height advantage over Chudinov but that did not tell in the opening stages as the man from Bratsk dictated the pace of proceedings, forcing Groves against the ropes and catching him with a number of hooks and one eye-catching short‑arm left hand to the chin in the second round.
But Groves fought back and stopped Chudinov in his tracks with a right hook to the side of the Russian’s face in the fourth. He followed that up with a thudding left to the body.
A nick to Groves’s left eye following a clash of heads appeared to be causing the Londoner problems in the fifth, but he rallied and in the following round took full control, rattling Chudinov – who won the WBA title himself with victory over the German veteran Felix Sturm two years ago in only his 13th professional bout before losing it to the same opponent in a rematch last year – with a series of his own punishing hooks. Referee Steve Gray eventually stepped in to stop proceedings.
“This is the end of a lifetime’s work,” said Groves, who as well as becoming a world champion has also extended his record to 26-3-0. “Shane McGuigan has resurrected my career. I feel like I’m the best in the division – I’m willing and ready to fight anyone.”
A clash with the IBF champion and long-time rival James DeGale could well be Groves’s next assignment, something which the 29-year-old described as “logical” before this fight. The pair met in 2011, with Groves coming out on top.
Steffon Armitage has called on the Rugby Football Union to stop punishing English players who move abroad by refusing to select them for international duty, claiming Nick Abendanon, David Strettle and Chris Ashton should be rewarded for taking the plunge overseas.
Armitage also said that despite coming close to a move back to Bath before the 2015 World Cup, and Wasps last summer, he has had no contact from Eddie Jones; the England head coach recently admitted he has only ever been turned down by one player, who is based in France.
The RFU has never invoked the “exceptional circumstances” clause of its policy of not picking players based outside England – not even for Armitage, who was named European player of the year in 2014 and won three consecutive European titles with Toulon.
More recently, though, the governing body has bent its rule – Piers Francis played Super Rugby for the Blues on Friday but will join up with England in Argentina before starting his Northampton career, while Sam Underhill is yet to arrive at Bath but is also going to South America. The RFU has defended both selections by saying both players are committed to joining English sides while the overseas rule is also a key part of its cooperation with the Premiership clubs.
“I just don’t see how it’s right that you are stopping someone from becoming a better player,” said Armitage, who lines up for the Barbarians against England at Twickenham on Sunday. “There are a few guys in that situation – Carl Fearns, Nick Abendanon, David Strettle, they are playing their best rugby against international players each week.
“Players need to feel like they’ve got a right to achieve. Rugby careers are really short and you’re taking that right away from them. Quite a lot are going to look back and say ‘what if’ and you should never have that throughout your career.
“Most of those guys believe that they are taking a massive risk. They are taking their whole family and are moving to a different country. That’s showing those guys have got some guts and they want to become better players. France is just an hour-and-a half flight. It is quicker to get from Toulon to London than from Exeter to London. I’m for the guys being available, wherever they want to play
“In France it is cut-throat – [the clubs] have so much money that if you don’t perform they will just get rid of you and get someone else. You might have 50 caps but you’re not guaranteed anything. You have to improve – you have got no choice. Look at Jonny [Wilkinson] – when he came to Toulon after all his injuries we thought he’d be a little bit [on the slide] but he played like he was 20 again.”
Armitage was visited in Toulon by Stuart Lancaster before the 2015 World Cup but a return to England did not materialise and while he left the Côte d’Azur last summer he stayed in France, joining Pau. With two years left on his contract, the 31-year-old has no regrets.
“I truly believe me staying in France was a better option to become a better player. Playing in France I have improved every day, so I felt that was the place to be,” he added. “I didn’t do it for [Jones], for anyone, I did it for my personal thing. It is my career, not the newspapers’, not the coaches’, it was my career so my decision. It was a difficult decision but sometimes you have to go with your gut. I have achieved everything I want to achieve – I might [also] have won a World Cup, but hey, you can’t have everything.”
Armitage is also adamant he has no point to prove on Sunday when he faces a youthful England side who have been urged to make a statement before touring Argentina.
Jones said: “Their expectation has got to be to get out there and do the job because this is England and that is the mindset we want to create.”
Lionel Messi produced yet another masterclass as Barcelona marked the end of Luis Enrique’s Camp Nou reign by lifting the Copa del Rey.
Barcelona became the first team since the early 1950s to lift the cup three seasons running as Messi masterminded a 3-1 victory at the final game to be staged at Atlético Madrid’s Vicente Calderón home.
Messi set Barcelona on their way with his 54th goal of the season and Neymar and Paco Alcácer were also on target in the first half, with Theo Hernández offering Alavés brief hope with a wonderful free-kick.
Alavés had waited 96 years to reach a Copa del Rey final, and they did not disgrace themselves at the end of a season in which they finished ninth in La Liga after winning promotion.
But, as is so often the case, they had no answer to the brilliance of Messi and, after a season in which Barcelona have fallen short of their high standards, the favourites ended with a trophy. A ninth piece of silverware was a fitting end to Enrique’s three-year spell in charge of Barcelona.
Messi sounded his intent with a brilliant diagonal pass that almost set up Jordi Alba for a sixth-minute opener. But Barcelona’s momentum was slowed by a nasty ninth-minute clash of heads between Javier Mascherano and Alavés’s on-loan midfielder Marcos Llorente, which led to the former leaving the field on a stretcher. With talk that the Argentina defender is set to leave Barcelona this summer after seven years at the club, it would represent a sad end to Mascherano’s trophy-filled time in Catalonia if that was the case.
Barcelona had a hold on possession, but chances were limited as Alavés stifled the midfield and denied Messi space around the fringes of the penalty area. And Alaves nearly struck against the run of play when Ibai Gómez intercepted Gerard Piqué’s pass out of defence.
Gómez’s shot squirmed under the body of Jasper Cillessen and, when it hit the back of the Barcelona goalkeeper on the way out, it rolled agonisingly along the line.
Barcelona made the most of their good fortune to take the lead three minutes later on the half-hour mark. Messi played a clever one-two with Neymar before curling the ball into the corner of the net from 18 yards.
But Alavés equalised within three minutes as Hernández, on loan from Atlético and on familiar turf, struck a sensational 25-yard free-kick past Cillessen.
Messi and Ivan Rakitic went close to restoring Barcelona’s lead, but Alaves’s hopes of reaching the break level were ruined in a cruel three-minute spell. A sweeping team move released the substitute André Gomes and his cross was turned home by Neymar, scoring for the third successive Copa del Rey final despite looking in an offside position.
Worse was to come for Alavés in the third minute of stoppage time as Messi dribbled his way past several defenders before allowing Alcácer to finish neatly.
The Alavés goalkeeper Fernando Pacheco prevented Alcácer from claiming a second soon after the restart, and the Basque side refused to surrender in a competitive contest. Gomes blocked Ruben Sobrino’s goalbound shot and Cillessen stuck out a foot to stop Rodrigo Ely’s stabbed attempt embarrassing him at the near post.
But Barcelona saw the game out to claim a third straight Copa del Rey and some tangible reward after Real Madrid’s La Liga triumph.
On 16 April 2016, Patrick Cronin played his first game of senior football for the Lower Plenty Bears. It was also the first time he would run on to the football ground with his older brother Lucas by his side.
But within a matter of hours, Patrick was on life support in the Royal Melbourne hospital. Doctors declared him brain dead and his family had to make the call to turn off his life support. Patrick passed away on 18 April 2016, aged 19.
While out celebrating the opening game of the season in the outer northern Melbourne suburb of Diamond Creek, a brawl broke out at the Windy Mile pub. Patrick allegedly stepped in as a peacemaker before he was struck by a punch to the head.
The alleged offender has been committed to stand trial for manslaughter, with the trial to commence on 17 July of this year in the supreme court – the police will allege that all it took to end Patrick’s life was one punch, a split second.
I went to high school with Patrick for six years and in Year 12 I spent nearly every day in one of his classes. He was a quiet, humble and extremely intelligent boy who rarely spoke out in class. At the end of high school, he was granted a scholarship to study at La Trobe University. He could have had a brilliant career and a fulfilling life.
Unfortunately, these stories are not uncommon. Frequently we hear about similar deaths in the news and they nearly always involve two things; young men and alcohol.

Yet, on our television screens, we still see violence being glamourised and glorified, nearly always in extremely masculine and sporting settings.
Last Sunday night, on Fox Footy’s program Bounce, an “expert panel” consisting of Jason Dunstall, Cameron Mooney and Daniel Frawley thought it was appropriate to run a segment titled their “Top 5 Jumper Punches” in the AFL. A jumper punch, as outlined by the panel, is when a football player grabs an opposition player by the neck of their football guernsey and punches the player in the jaw or other area of the face.
The panel praised each punch, labelling one as a “ripper”.
It was an overt display of violence on the football field and instead of criticising it, the panel framed the punches in a positive light. How can the producers, writers and all those involved in the show think it was OK to position violence in this way?
The show aired from 7.20pm for an hour. Young people were in the studio audience and I’m sure young people were tuning in from home. Footballers are icons, role models and heroes for so many. One of Patrick’s favourite footballers, Mathew Richardson, has recently joined the Pat Cronin Foundation as a supporter.
Why these football personalities would publicly be encouraging on-field violence simply staggers me.
The AFL came out on Tuesday to take a stronger stance against on-field punching after various incidents caught the eye of match officials during the weekend’s match between North Melbourne and Melbourne.
General manager for football operations, Simon Lethlean, told SEN radio: “The deterrent of fines is not stopping on-field punching in various forms and we want to stamp that out … We don’t want punching to continue.” The AFL will look to the Match Review Panel to potentially suspend offending players throughout the rest of the season.
Football panel programs don’t seem to be on the same page. They present an idea of masculinity that is impenetrable. If our society wants to truly tackle issues of violence, whether that be in the form of a punch in a pub, in a family’s home or on the football field, our television screens must reflect a more realistic view of masculinity. Bounce should be joining the AFL in criticising on-field punching and not encouraging it.
Shows such as Bounce seek to balance out their overly masculine show by including a female panellist. Bounce has welcomed Tegan Higginbotham to their show while The AFL Footy Show brought in Rebecca Maddern last year.
While I welcome the inclusion of women on Australian sporting shows, it just does not fix the way these shows present masculinity on our screens. Our sports presenters should be encouraging fair play and respectfulness in sport, not a “jumper punch” or any other type of violence, for that matter.
Football was a massive part of Patrick’s life, as it is for so many young Australians, both male and female. Over-the-top representations of masculinity on our television screens does not assist us in stopping these unnecessary acts of violence that took Patrick’s life.
Young people are impressionable, and showing them a more realistic version of masculinity, one that shows men are susceptible to emotions and are not, in fact, invincible, could one day help eradicate the coward punch altogether. Along with the work of foundations like the one Patrick’s parents have started, education about alcohol and violence, and the work of the AFL, the media can play an important role in ensuring another young man is not taken from his family.
Patrick will forever be 19 years of age, and I hope no other family ever experiences what the Cronins have in the past year.
It may seem strange to hear an England coach talking about his players changing perceptions in the wake of a penalty shootout defeat that followed a familiar script, yet Steve Cooper has good reason to think the mood is shifting when it comes to how the country’s next generation of footballers are viewed.
The man in charge of the under-17 team who lost against Spain in gut-wrenching fashion eight days ago, when they conceded an injury-time equaliser before being beaten on spot-kicks in the European Championship final in Croatia, is not alone in believing England are starting to see the fruits of their labour after launching their DNA blueprint two and a half years ago.
“What was really rewarding from Croatia was what some of the other coaches were saying publicly and privately around the hotel,” Cooper says. “Also, there’s a Uefa technical team observing, with quite a few English speakers in there, and some of the remarks we were getting from them – and they’re comparing us with everyone – were very positive.
“Most rewarding is that they were saying things that we were intending to do, like playing with a clear identity, playing attractive football, and playing with really good organisation and structure. So that’s where ‘changing perceptions’ comes from. Because there’s no doubt – and this is recognition of the work that’s going in the clubs – that the talent is there and that we can be competitive against anyone in Europe.”
Cooper is certainly not getting carried away and knows there is still a long journey ahead for England’s coaches and players. Yet the Welshman, who spent five years working at Liverpool’s academy, where his whole approach to coaching changed under the influence of José “Pep” Segura, the highly respected Catalan who has since returned to Barcelona’s youth setup, feels England are getting a lot of things right.
As well as introducing a style of football that runs through all the age groups, England have been encouraging their young players to open their minds off the field by self-analysing much more and speaking up in front of their peers as part of “a big drive on leadership”. One of the other things that shines through while talking to Cooper is that England seem to be adopting a much more collaborative approach to international football, where staff and players across different levels interact in what feels almost like a club environment.
“There were a few things like that in Croatia,” Cooper says. “Harry Kane sent us a video message, he was speaking from his experience of being in development teams. Jack Butland, who won the Under-17 European Championship and captained the under-21s, did a FaceTime call with the three keepers that lasted about an hour. Gareth Southgate sent a clear and powerful video message just before the semi-final – he knows the boys and they know him because he has worked with development teams for a few years and has a genuine interest in their progress. Jamie Carragher did a video from the Monday Night Football studio and we also had videos from Freddie Woodman, who is now with the under-20s, and Josh Onomah, who played in the under-17s in 2014, and got them to share their experiences.”
While there are clearly some extremely talented individuals in an England Under-17 team who scored 13 times and conceded twice en route to the final – Chelsea’s Callum Hudson-Odoi and Manchester City’s Jadon Sancho and Phil Foden were among those to catch the eye – an obvious concern is whether the pathways exist at club level. A glance through the England Under-17 squad who triumphed at the European Championship finals in 2014 reveals that Lewis Cook, who is now at Bournemouth, is the only player to have made a Premier League start this season. “I don’t think there’s anyone that doesn’t want homegrown players to come through,” Cooper says. “And it is getting addressed by the clubs, but it will look different at each club.”
Cooper comes across as the sort of person whose glass is always half full in relation to youth development. Released by Wrexham after a couple of years as a professional, he was offered a job working with the club’s under-11s. In between driving the minibus and marking the pitches at a club where everyone pulled together, Cooper discovered his vocation in life. “I just fell in love with coaching,” he says.
Following in the footsteps of his father, Keith, who had a distinguished career as a top-flight referee, was not quite so appealing. “I thought about the stick I used to get on a Monday morning,” Cooper says, laughing. “No, I’m joking. Dad was right at the top, he did 70-odd Uefa games, every derby, and it’s nice to look back on that. When you see the stuff on Football Gold, he’s always there.”
Cooper’s thirst for learning meant he raced through his coaching badges and passed the pro licence course at the age of 26, leaving Wrexham for Anfield a couple of years later. Rafael Benítez was manager at the time and within months of Cooper’s arrival the Spaniard brought in two former Barcelona staff – Rodolfo Borrell, who is now Pep Guardiola’s assistant coach at Manchester City, and Segura – to take up senior positions in Liverpool’s youth setup.
“I thought I was in a decent place with my coaching before I met Pep [Segura], but then I realised that I had a load of work to do,” Cooper says. “From a coaching point of view, he has been the biggest influence on me. He just showed me the way – a different way. The biggest message that Pep gave me was that you’ve got to know what you want your team to look like at the end – close your eyes and imagine what is happening.
“But it’s one thing knowing what it looks like, it’s also how you get there. That’s what I pride myself on now, having a clear view of when the team is getting it right and where I want them to go, but also the bits to get there. So how do you train the game-model, for example? Pep taught me to create a vision and build back up to it. More than anything, once you’ve got your vision, once you’ve got your steps to get there, with your periodisation of training, the type of practices that you use, the individual profiling of players, then stick to it. You need to have belief in it.”
Asked to provide a bit of detail, Cooper says: “It was about criteria in all areas of the pitch. It wasn’t just a case where he’d say: ‘We’re going to play out from the back and the back four are going to split, we’ll get out there, there and there, and when we get up the pitch just play what you see.’ There’s always an element of that because players need to make decisions. However, if we’re going to have criteria when we play out from the back, then we’ll have criteria in midfield as well and at the top of the pitch.”
Fascinated by tactics and formations, the 37-year-old gives the impression that he could talk for hours on the subject and that he likes nothing more than being on the training field. He is excited about the future and is already looking forward to the Under-17 World Cup in India in October as well as being part of the European Championship finals next summer, which England are hosting.
As for the bigger picture, Cooper sees real progress. “There’s always going to be a cynical or judgmental view until the senior team wins something – Gareth, I’m sure, would be the first to say that,” he says. “But all we can do is put together a plan that will serve the players and the teams well and stick to it. We’ve done that and although nobody wanted to lose that final against Spain, if losing helps us win in the long term, then we’ve got to live with that.”
Jaap Stam says his reputation would have been tarnished had he struggled in his first season at Reading but insists being appointed the club’s manager last summer was a risk for both parties. Stam has steered Reading to Monday’s Championship play-off final against Huddersfield, beyond all expectations, and believes his team have benefited from his decision to play the Dutch way.
Stam signed a three-year contract with a long-term objective of reaching the Premier League, but the Dutchman has led the club – who finished 17th and 19th in the past two seasons – to within touching distance of the top flight at express speed. His only previous management experience came as an assistant at PEC Zwolle and Jong Ajax, the under-21 side of Ajax.
“It’s always up to the clubs over whether they take that risk to employ someone from abroad, a young manager as well, you just need to get that chance,” Stam said. “Everyone needs that and I needed to make a decision whether I wanted that. It is not only other people [who had to make a decision] but myself as well. Do I want that? Is it good for myself?
“I have a reputation and name myself, everyone knows that. But I believe in myself as well. Even the other managers are at risk if you go somewhere and think what will happen if it doesn’t work out. What then? Will it ruin my name? You need to go in, work hard and believe in yourself, that’s what’s happened this season.”
Regardless of whether Reading clinch promotion or not, he is determined to manage at the same level he played at. “I want to go to the top – I’ve played at the top – and as a manager I want to go to the top, hopefully with Reading,” Stam said. “It is important for me to believe in a team that has ambition. I want to go up and work towards something. I don’t want to work in the grey areas and say it is nice to end up 10th or 11th and keep on doing that every year. I want to reach something with a team and go to the highest level.”
The 44-year-old has had to contend with a now-completed Chinese takeover hanging over the club for the majority of the season but believes his biggest challenge since returning to England was implementing his Dutch philosophy.
“How they have been playing in the last two season was different to how we wanted: playing possession, going forward, controlling games and creating chances and scoring goals. The Dutch way, attacking football. In the UK the thoughts of playing a certain way were maybe dangerous. That’s how we wanted to do it.”
Andy Murray finds himself in the peculiar position of being the highest-ranked player yet considered behind Rafael Nadal, Novak Djokovic and Stan Wawrinka in discussions about the French Open, which starts on Sunday.
Nadal, correctly, is an odds-on favourite to win a record 10th title here, although he probably will have a semi-final against the defending champion, Djokovic who, since Murray displaced him as world No 1 six months ago, has slowly rediscovered some of his old magic and brings a new coach to Paris, in Andre Agassi.
Wawrinka, who is in Murray’s side of the draw – along with the most exciting young player in the game, Alexander Zverev, and the most mercurial, Nick Kyrgios – beat Zverev’s older brother, Mischa, to win the Geneva Open on Saturday.
Nadal is 17-1 on clay this year, free of injury and playing his best tennis in five years. He turns 31 during the tournament and could not be more content, having withdrawn after two quick wins a year ago to heal a lingering damaged wrist that wrecked his season.
So, as is invariably the way in this crazy sport, they all have problems to a lesser or greater degree – and they know how to cope. They have all been managing the physical and mental stress of the game for so long it is second nature to them.
None of this fazes Murray. He might even agree with the downbeat assessment of his chances. Many good judges do. Yet whatever the strength of concerns about his health and form, he has been hurled back to where he has often been most dangerous: as underdog.
It is easily forgotten that this most obdurate of Scots won an Olympic gold medal and two of his three majors with a bad back; for most of his life, he has also coped with split kneecaps and structural weaknesses in his right wrist and ankle. But he has used these frailties as motivation rather than excuses and, on the eve of the second slam of the season, he finds himself the subject of old doubts yet again.
“I’m not worried about it,” he said, “more frustrated because there’s so much stop-starting. You have to take a couple of days off because you are not feeling too well or have a bit of trouble with the elbow. That’s just frustrating. I’ve also been pretty fortunate throughout my career, barring the back injury.”
Perhaps it is the national inclination towards glumness that leads some to doubt if Murray can even get out of the first week. Some say he could struggle first up, against the Russian world No85, Andrey Kuznetsov, who took a set off him at the US Open four years ago, but a mere three games when they last met, in Beijing last year. Kuznetsov pushed Wawrinka to a second-set tie-break before losing in the semi-finals in Geneva in Friday, so he is in good shape and has a solid clay game. Oddsmakers, unlike the doomsayers, have Murray at 1-6.
One of the more fanciful rumours circulating Roland Garros after the draw on Friday was that the Scot had glandular fever.
When it was put to him, he shrugged and smiled: “Not that I’m aware of.” He was concerned, though. “After I got back from Miami when I was ill, I had blood tests. I was really sick for two days in Miami. I was in bed. I couldn’t move. I had a sore stomach. I was sweating, sore head, temperature.
“When I got back I had tests and they showed I had suffered shingles earlier in the year. But I did not have any tests then [in Melbourne]. The [later] blood tests showed that everything else was fine. I did have tests for glandular fever and got the all clear.”
Anyone who has suffered from that energy-draining disease will testify that the effects can linger for months or years. Mono, as it is colloquially known on the circuit, has been a minor scourge in tennis in recent years, finishing the career of Robin Soderling, the first player to beat Nadal at Roland Garros, and cutting down Mario Ancic and Roger Federer in 2008, Andy Roddick in 2010, Lara Arruabarrena in 2013, Heather Watson and Petra Kvitova in 2015, as well as Jarmila Wolfe (nee Gajdosova) and Christina McHale.
As Murray explained, it is impossible to avoid picking up viruses in crowded, sweaty locker rooms and when confined on long-haul flights between venues around the world. Yet, he is upbeat. There were times when such spirit-sapping dips would affect his mood dramatically, but marriage and fatherhood have noticeably changed that. His daughter, Sophia, is an inspiration to him and maybe reflects a little of his own character, although he is not so sure. “She’s walking, talking a little bit,” he said, “throwing a few more tantrums than when she was a baby.”
The idea of Murray having a child who throws tantrums might once have made the lead-in to a poor punch line, although he insists Sophia, who has not long turned one, gets it from her mother, Kim. What both have given him is stability and perspective. He will need plenty of that this week and, if the pessimists are wrong, possibly next.
Six-try Scarlets swept Munster’s meek challenge aside to win a one-sided Pro12 final 46-22 at the Aviva Stadium in Dublin.
Wayne Pivac’s men captured the Welsh region’s second Pro12 title – and first since 2004 – as their devastatingly potent attack floored an Irish province for the second week running.
Impressive semi-final winners at Leinster, Scarlets sauntered into a 29-3 lead with four tries in the opening half an hour. Coping much better with the greasy ball, Liam Williams, Steff Evans, Gareth Davies and Tadhg Beirne all touched down, with Rhys Patchell kicking nine points.
A converted 39th-minute score from Tyler Bleyendaal, adding to his early penalty, cut the deficit to 19 points for a rather shell-shocked Munster at the break.
But Patchell responded with a 44th-minute penalty before a late flurry of scores, tries from Andrew Conway and Keith Earls being scant consolation for Munster as replacement DTH van der Merwe and James Davies took Scarlets’ haul to six in the end.
With too many of their leading players off-form, Munster were unable to lift the trophy in memory of their former coach Anthony Foley as the hungrier and superior Scarlets condemned the province to their second Pro12 final defeat in three years.
Evans’s try was perhaps the pick of the bunch. Munster a fumbled ruck ball from the restart and the Welshmen countered for a superb score in the 19th minute.
Quick passing out to the left, with Francis Saili shooting up aimlessly, saw Jonathan Davies and Evans combine from deep for the latter’s 13th try of the campaign. PA
Jamie George has won 17 England caps but has yet to start an international. The finisher may turn starter for the British & Irish Lions in New Zealand this summer with the hooker, for once, not understudying the captain.
George has had Dylan Hartley in his England way with leadership overcoming form, but the Lions, well stocked with captains, took the other route and the Saracen will be competing with Rory Best, the Ireland captain, and Wales’s Ken Owens for the starting position at hooker in the first Test.
“I guess it is a change not to be playing in the same position as the captain, but it will still be really tough competition,” says George. “Both Rory and Ken are fantastic players and that is what you want. If we can push each other along it will only be better for the team.”
George joined the Lions in Dublin last week, along with four fellow Saracens after the club’s Premiership semi-final defeat to Exeter at Sandy Park. While their clubmates marked the end of the season, the quintet were quickly back on the training field.
“We had to put the disappointment of the loss to Exeter behind us quickly and put our Lions’ caps on,” says George. “It was a good opportunity to move on, otherwise it would have been a long time to your next game if you were not involved in any of the summer tours.
“We had a tough four days training, but it is great to be involved and by the end of the week it looked as if we had been together for a while. It has been in the back of your mind since being selected so it has been nice to get up and running and get to know the boys a bit better. It was a really productive week and those of us who had just joined up had to get up to speed quickly.
“The coaches put us under pressure in training and it was tough conditioning-wise, but even though it is the end of the season, I have felt really good. A Lions tour gives you an increase in energy. Your body feeling a bit battered does not come into it as you are excited about the tour ahead. I have a week without doing too much before we go to New Zealand and that will be nice.”
A Lions tour is about giving every player in the squad the opportunity to lay a claim to a place in the side for the first Test. George has been used as a finisher by the England head coach, Eddie Jones, because of the energy and force he supplies when he comes off the bench at a time fatigue is starting to kick in, but he started the European Cup final and the Exeter play-off for Saracens this month.
“Everyone would prefer to start, but I am easy about finishing,” says the 26-year-old. “Whatever role I am given, I will do to the best of my ability. For England so far, that has been off the bench. Whether it is the same for the Lions I don’t know, but it is about taking whatever opportunities you get. You have to earn the right to wear the shirt. That is my ambition, but it means being in form.
“Working with Rory has been good. He is a top man I have a huge amount of respect for. He has been helping me out with the calls, having had one week in camp more than me, and we have been bouncing ideas off each other. I am really looking forward to working with him over the next seven weeks.”
George is the only player in the squad not to have started a Test, but his selection was not a shock. “Getting selected was a bit surreal, but it is about getting stuck in and I am really enjoying it,” he said. “It has been a good season for me so far, but I am not going to reflect on it before I am on a beach somewhere.”
Sean O’Loughlin insists Wigan remain capable of retaining their Super League title despite a run of form that appears to suggest Monday’s game against Wakefield is arguably their most important of the season.
The reigning champions are without a win in their past four games and despite a relatively strong start to the season they now find themselves in mid-table as the regular season enters its final stretch.
Defeat to Trinity could leave them as many as five points adrift of the top four come Monday night, but O’Loughlin said: “The majority of boys wouldn’t even know where we are in the league – we just keep approaching games wanting to win,” he says.
“We’ve not won a few now but eventually we will do and we’ll climb up that table. We’ve got every confidence that we’ll be up at the right end and there or thereabouts come the end of the year.”
Wigan’s problems have not been helped by injuries, with the champions without more than a dozen first-team players on several occasions this year.
They will be without a similar number at the DW Stadium, but O’Loughlin believes the pain the club are experiencing will benefit them in the long-term. “We’re down to the bare bones: we’ve had players missing and kids coming in,” he says. “But this will pay dividends come the back end of the year when hopefully we get a load of troops back.
“There’s a lot of competition and some of these kids will probably hold on to their places. At the minute it’s tough, but for the back end of the year, next year and the year after that, it’s going to be great for us.”
However, despite such defiance from the Wigan and England captain, he does concede their form has to improve soon to avoid their season petering out. “In the past we’ve had injuries but managed to pick up wins, and that’s probably one thing we’ve not done as much as last year.
We had a good spell at the start but we’re on a bit of a run now where we’ve not picked up points. We’ve got to address that and start winning games, but if we continue to approach matches like we have done, then we’ll eventually start picking up wins.”
Carelessness is not a word that has been applied to Chelsea very often this season, yet the champions began this final a little too laid back for their own good. They were behind after five minutes as a result, and player of the season N’Golo Kanté was partly to blame. Not for the attempted clearance that struck Alexis Sánchez and allowed the Chilean to run on and beat Thibaut Courtois, but for coughing up possession to allow Arsenal to threaten in the first place. Courtois had just made a routine catch from Mesut Özil’s early corner and bowled the ball out for Kanté to get an attack moving, only to see the normally reliable midfielder lose his bearings just outside his own penalty area to let Arsenal steal in.
It could not be said the error led directly to the goal but it was an ominously lackadaisical start by a side that has been noted for its smartness and precision all season. By the mid-point of the first half, by which time Gary Cahill had already been forced to clear off the line from Özil and Danny Welbeck had hit a post with a header from a corner, it was beginning to look as if Chelsea’s imperious march to the title had just been an illusion. It was either that or Arsène Wenger had simply been saving Arsenal’s best performance of the season as a means of answering his critics.
The Arsenal manager struck a familiar pose on the touchline when Kanté fouled Welbeck in the first half, arms spread out in appeal to the referee, who did not produce a yellow card. Nonetheless it was clear from Kanté’s act of desperation that Chelsea were being forced out of their comfort zone. Eden Hazard and Diego Costa were hardly in the game in the first half-hour.
Chelsea like to play on the counter, and do not mind soaking up pressure in order to break quickly when the chance arises, though they seemed unprepared for the effectiveness of Özil and Sánchez when allowing Arsenal to come at them. Cahill was required to come to the rescue again when Welbeck was played through on the left, and though Hazard managed to create a chance for Pedro that the 29-year-old Spain international wasted by shooting too high, Chelsea could hardly have complained had they turned round more than a single goal in arrears.
They perhaps had a legitimate grievance in that Aaron Ramsey seemed to be both offside and interfering when Sánchez stuck away his shot, and were perhaps unlucky that Anthony Taylor did not stick to his original intention of blowing up for handball, but they could not deny that Arsenal had carved out by far the best chances. Chelsea did not seem their usual purposeful selves, and when word arrived just before the interval that they had not even remembered to pick up their black armbands before taking to the Wembley field it hardly came as a complete surprise.
The armband oversight was sorted out by the second half, and when Kanté opened up proceedings with a shot at Ospina and Hazard surged powerfully forward to send in a cross that Costa nearly reached it began to appear Chelsea had remembered the rest of the script too.
Certainly it looked much more like business as usual when Kanté dispossessed Sánchez to supply Costa, who backed into Per Mertesacker to set up Victor Moses for a shot that Ospina had to scramble to reach.
Suddenly it was a story of Chelsea surrounding their opponents’ area, though Arsenal can also play on the counter, and had Hector Bellerin supplied a better cross when Sánchez sent him away with a marvellous pass the contest could have been over just past the hour. With Chelsea improving and Arsenal doggedly protecting a slender lead the final was proving both watchable and exciting, though the longer it went on the greater the case became for the introduction of Cesc Fàbregas to increase the trailing side’s attacking options. Nemanja Matic duly made way with a little under half an hour of the match remaining, and after Courtois had saved from Bellerin at one end Fàbregas missed the target with his first chance at the other.
Fàbregas was also involved in the move that possibly influenced the outcome most, though not in the way he would have chosen. He supplied the pass to Hazard from which the Belgian picked out Moses on the right, who was cutting into the Arsenal area apparently weighing up his options when he inexplicably chose to hit the floor after a mere suggestion of contact with Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain. The referee was right on the spot and was having none of it, correctly signalling a dive and reaching for his pocket. Moses must have forgotten he had been booked 10 minutes earlier for a foul on Welbeck, and his look of almost amused incredulity did not do him any favours. He had to go, replays backed up Taylor’s reading of the situation, and Moses must have been as relieved as any Chelsea fan in the stadium when Costa equalised on behalf of the 10 men two minutes later.
Incredibly a five minute sequence of nonstop drama was completed when Ramsey responded with Arsenal’s winner almost instantly, taking advantage of poor positioning by David Luiz. At that precise point it was becoming necessary to remind oneself to breathe, and there was still drama to come when Ospina denied Costa at point-blank range. Chelsea can be proud of taking part in one of the great Cup finals, but the Double was not to be. A little too careless on the day.
Borussia Dortmund ended a run of three successive German Cup final defeats with a 2-1 victory over Eintracht Frankfurt in Berlin.
The striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who reportedly handed in a transfer request this week, scored his 40th goal of the season from the penalty spot for Dortmund midway through the second half to clinch the club’s fourth DFB-Pokal title and first in five years.
Aubameyang also hit the crossbar late on as Dortmund put the defeats to Bayern Munich (twice) and Wolfsburg behind them in a record fourth consecutive final appearance.
Dortmund took the lead after eight minutes when Ousmane Dembélé picked up where he had left off with his semi-final winner against Bayern.
The midfielder reached double figures for the season with a left-footed shot from a tight angle.
However, they could not press home their advantage and on the half-hour Frankfurt, appearing in their first cup final for 11 years, equalised through Ante Rebic.
Dortmund replaced Marco Reus and Marcel Schmelzer with Gonzalo Castro and Christian Pulisic at half-time and it was the latter who won the decisive penalty after he was fouled by Lukas Hradecky, allowing Aubameyang to score his 40th in 46 matches this season.
David Ospina, 6/10 Preferred to Petr Cech, he made himself big and saved bravely from Costa in the first half but should have saved the equaliser. Huge save at the end to win the game.
Rob Holding, 7/10 Looked assured for large parts of the biggest game of his career despite having to deal with the menacing Costa. Booked for a foul on the Chelsea striker and lost him for the goal.
Per Mertesacker, 9/10 First start all season and what a performance. Looked as if he had never been away. Dominated Costa in the air and denied the Chelsea striker with a fabulous sliding tackle too for good measure.
Nacho Monreal, 8/10 Started attack that led to opening goal down the left and at times he seemed to be everywhere. Gave away some unnecessary free-kicks but Chelsea failed to capitalise.
Héctor Bellerín, 7/10 Energetic yet still composed down the right, subduing Marcos Alonso while contributing to Arsenal’s attacking play when he was in a position to do so. Nearly scored but Courtois saved.
Aaron Ramsey, 8/10 A superb performance, the Welshman ran the midfield show, not giving the Chelsea players a second on the ball. Scored the winner after a run from deep and composed header.
Granit Xhaka, 8/10 For a player who has been criticised for his indiscipline and decision-making, for most of the season, this was a wonderfully assured performance. Crisp passing too. Impressive.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, 6/10 Finally fit to play in a Cup final and produced a performance full of running and, overall, controlled defending despite having to give away free-kicks with last-ditch tackles.
Mesut Özil, 7/10 Elegant, as always, and hugely influential in Arsenal’s win. But it was not all flicks and curled passes. He worked hard too, as encapsulated by a powerful track-back and sliding challenge on Hazard.
Alexis Sánchez, 9/10 Set the tone from the beginning with his attitude, energy and pressing and reacted quicker than anyone else to give the Gunners an early lead and worked superbly throughout.
Danny Welbeck, 8/10 Worked tirelessly for the team and held the ball up well to combine with Sánchez and Özil. Hit the post with a beautiful header from a corner in the first half.
Thibaut Courtois, 6/10 Powerless to do anything about either of Arsenal’s goals with Sánchez appearing one-on-one with him for the first and Ramsey given too much space for the second..
Cesar Azpilicueta, 6/10 The Spaniard cut a frustrated figure at times but got an importance touch on a Bellerin cross with two Arsenal players lurking in the penalty area in the second half.
David Luiz, 6/10 His weak, headed clearance was pounced upon by Sánchez for the opening goal and it never felt as if Chelsea’s three-man central defence were in total control of Arsenal’s attacking trio.
Gary Cahill, 7/10 Twice cleared off the line with the first a remarkably calm, back-heeled effort despite being under pressure by Welbeck. The England centre-half was one of Chelsea’s best players.
Victor Moses, 3/10 What was he thinking? On a yellow card for a crude challenge on Welbeck near the halfway line, he took a dive inside the penalty area and was correctly sent off. Madness.
N’Golo Kanté, 6/10 The Frenchman was not at his best in the final game of a season that has seen so many fine performances by him. Chelsea were second-best in midfield and so was he.
Nemanja Matic, 5/10 Uncharacteristically, the Serb lost the ball on several occasions. There was no repeat of the goal that sank Spurs in the semi-final at the same venue and he was taken off after an hour.
Marcos Alonso, 5/10 Had a surprisingly quiet game as Chelsea were often on the back foot, unable to cope with Arsenal’s better pressing. Took one free-kick in a good position but it was wild and high.
Pedro, 6/10 Shot high from a good position inside the Arsenal penalty area after being released by Hazard and then saw one effort go narrowly wide with Ospina beaten. Replaced by Willian.
Eden Hazard, 6/10 Struggled to influence the game like he has done on so many occasions this season. Credit for Arsenal for keeping him quiet, apart from one tremendous through ball to Pedro.
Diego Costa, 6/10 Started by kicking out at Rob Holding, although he missed, and had one of those brooding, frustrating afternoons when things do not quite come off for him until he equalised.
Jim Bunning, a former Baseball Hall of Fame pitcher who went on to serve in Congress, has died. He was 85.
Bunning’s death was confirmed by Jon Deuser, who served as chief of staff when Bunning, who was from Kentucky, was in the Senate. Deuser said he was notified about the death by Bunning’s family.
Bunning was one of only 18 Major League Baseball pitchers to throw a perfect game in the modern era. The only member of the Baseball Hall of Fame to serve in Congress, he was the second pitcher to record 100 wins and 1,000 strikeouts in the American and National Leagues.
Active from 1955 to 1971, he spent most of his major league career with the Philadelphia Phillies and Detroit Tigers and was an All-Star selection eight times. He threw his perfect game, the ninth of 23 in major league history, for the Phillies against the New York Mets on 21 June 1964. He had a no-hitter for the Tigers, against the Boston Red Sox, in July 1958.
Bunning also played for the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Los Angeles Dodgers. He was inducted to the Hall of Fame in 1996, having retired with 2,855 strikeouts, then the second-most ever. He is now 17th on that list.
In a statement posted to Twitter on Saturday, Major League Baseball Players Association executive director Tony Clark said Bunning, who was involved in hiring the first MLBPA executive director, was “one of the most important figures” in its history.
“All players – past, present and future – will forever owe Jim a debt of gratitude,” Clark said.
Bunning entered the US House of Representatives in 1986 and spent 12 years there before winning election to the Senate in 1998.
A staunch conservative, he was a fierce protector of state interests such as tobacco, coal and military bases. His ornery nature forced Republican leaders to push him to retire after two terms, however, and he did not seek re-election in 2010.
Rand Paul, a candidate for the presidential nomination in 2012, won the election to replace him.
“Unbelievable,” said Eoin Morgan and he does not usually do hyperbole. Teams seldom win when the opposition needs 10 runs from 10 balls with five wickets in hand but that is what his England side managed.
“We decided we needed wickets [before the final over from Mark Wood] and to make them hit the ball in the air,” explained Morgan. “But we didn’t take any wickets and still managed to win. Unbelievable. Wood’s yorkers are usually good at the end but we decided to go with his raw pace. We thought a few bouncers was our best chance of taking those wickets. Maybe we bluffed them.” Morgan’s smile suggested he was not so sure about that.
It was the best kind of victory since it was so unlikely with 10 balls to go. Sides cherish those wins the most.
Ben Stokes’s century was obviously significant but there remain concerns for his captain about the fitness of his gun all-rounder. “We are monitoring him,” said Morgan, “and managing him the best we can with the Champions Trophy in mind. He is certainly good to play as a batsman at Lord’s [on Monday]. It depends how he pulls up. But he wants to play. I think that unless he’s injured or a risk he will play.”
If that is the case he will not be bowling his full quota of overs since that is the process which currently gives Stokes pain. At the Ageas Bowl he was restricted to just three overs. “Before the end I’d already decided that was enough,” said Morgan, who also has to keep an eye on Chris Woakes’ fitness as well. “His absence was more precautionary but we don’t want to take any risks with him.”
Morgan’s opposite number, AB de Villiers, did his best to hide his disappointment. “We got a bit excited at the end,” he said before applauding how David Miller and Chris Morris had almost taken his side to victory.
De Villiers was more cheerful about his side’s performance than his conversation with the umpires, Rob Bailey and Chris Gaffaney, midway through England’s innings. De Villiers was candid and serious when explaining how the umpires felt that the condition of one of the balls had changed. “I was upset by that. I had the feeling that they felt we were responsible for that. It felt as if we were being accused of ball‑tampering.”
He then added that no further steps were taken and the ball was not changed. “I think it was just a bad ball. That happens sometimes.”
De Villiers’ sensitivity on this issue can be explained by South Africa’s experiences in the winter when there were accusations of ball‑tampering, most notably against Faf du Plessis after the Hobart Test against in Australia as well as during the one-day series against New Zealand. Du Plessis was heavily fined and extremely grumpy about that.
Moreover the South Africans are not exactly over the moon about losing a match they should have won.
Exeter lifted the Premiership trophy seven years after winning promotion to the top flight and immediately turned their gaze to Europe. Gareth Steenson’s boot took the Chiefs to victory over Bristol in the 2010 Championship play-off final and the club’s long-serving outside-half, who lost his place in the side to Henry Slade at the start of the season, levelled Saturday’s final against Wasps with a penalty 30 seconds from the end and won it with three minutes remaining in extra-time.
“We had a seven-year plan when we came up to become Premiership champions, but with five minutes to go I did not think we were going to do it,” said the Exeter chairman, Tony Rowe. “This success confirms where we are, but my ambition now, and that of Rob Baxter [the head coach] is to become the best in Europe.”
Steenson said he felt no more pressure taking the kicks than he had seven years before in the play-off. “If we had not beaten Bristol, we would not have been in this final,” he said. “I said a prayer to my old man upstairs and he helped me with the last one.”
Exeter were unbeaten in their last 17 Premiership matches after winning two of their first seven. “We sat down and a few harsh words were spoken,” said Steenson. “We knew we had to get a grip and we did. We stood up and performed and we have got our reward.”
Exeter’s England wing Jack Nowell, who flies to New Zealand with the Lions on Monday, scored the first try. “We wanted this badly after losing the final last year,” he said. “We knew it would come down to our fitness because Wasps would make it tough for us and all our hard work paid off.”
Wasps finished first in the regular season and had won their previous 10 finals in all competitions. “We have had a really good campaign and I am proud of the players,” said the club’s director of rugby, Dai Young. “We have to take this defeat on the chin and make sure we learn from it.”
A brilliant, modern one-day contest ended with a stunning England victory by two runs. Just seven were required from the last over and David Miller and Chris Morris had already added a quickfire 55. A successful pursuit of 331 was the obvious outcome. But it never happened
Mark Wood had the dubious honour and he bowled a final over of rare hostility and composure. He yielded just three runs from his first five balls, most of which were short and fast, and Morris was unable to hit the last one for four. He could manage only a melancholy single.
Thirty-three had been needed off the last three overs. Jake Ball, replacing the injured Chris Woakes, was the unlucky bowler to be shredded at the end of this thrilling contest. But Wood delivered an over that will guarantee his place in the side during the Champions Trophy provided he stays fit. There seems to be more steel in Eoin Morgan’s team.
Here they gave another polished, professional performance, keeping their head in the field under pressure at the end and also when Quinton de Kock and AB de Villiers combined ominously in South Africa’s run chase. Morgan was icily decisive in his bowling changes and the men around him appeared to relish the challenge of a tight finish.
There are just two clouds on their horizon. Ben Stokes, who produced his second ODI century, bowled just three overs and could not be risked further. And there is the suggestion that this team might be peaking a little too early, which is barely more than an old-fashioned, superstitious observation before the Champions Trophy.
This victory was so much tougher to achieve than the one at Headingley. Batting conditions were tricky when England started at 11am and South Africa were more resolute in their pursuit of another substantial target, 331.
The start of South Africa’s chase had been solid. They had scored 56 inside 10 overs before Hashim Amla was nimbly caught at extra cover by Morgan off Stokes.
Faf du Plessis fell to the excellent Liam Plunkett but then De Kock and De Villiers proceeded far too easily for the home crowd’s comfort in a partnership of 96. Now Plunkett made another telling contribution. He bowled a bouncer to De Villiers, which was correctly given as a wide. So the last delivery that the South Africa captain anticipated next ball was another short one, which is what Plunkett delivered. The ball brushed the glove of a startled De Villiers before it was caught by Jos Buttler.
De Kock soon followed, edging Moeen Ali to the keeper when two shy of his century, which meant that England finally had some leeway. But this time the South Africa lower order were more determined than at Headingley. Miller and Morris swung dangerously and to good effect – except in Wood’s final over.
Now England routinely pass 300 with the bat. Here they did so despite grim, grey clouds hovering over the ground at the start and a relatively modest rate of progress after 25 overs, when they were 120 for three. This time the IPL boys were the key contributors.
Since Headingley there has been much agonizing over Stokes’s ability to bowl because of a dodgy knee, which meant that the quality of his batting may have been overlooked. In this format he bats at five and he demonstrated why in a superbly paced though initially fortunate innings.
His chief ally was Buttler, who emerged from an unusually unproductive spell in this format with an unbeaten 65. Hence England were able to knock up 111 runs in their final 10 overs, as opposed to the 102 they managed at Headingley. At the moment someone always turns up.
Likewise there is always someone under scrutiny. Currently that is Jason Roy, whose highest score in four ODI innings so far this summer is the 20 at Lord’s against Ireland. Understandably this regime gives players plenty of rope; they know that Roy has the capacity to change the game in 15 overs. But Roy may also recognize that Jonny Bairstow or Sam Billings would be more than happy to be drafted in as an opening batsman.
Here Roy played around a full, straight delivery from Kasigo Rabada. Joe Root looked in rather better form. He glided along from the start and England proceeded with few alarms for 10 overs. Alex Hales was not so fluent: he was dropped on the boundary by Rabada but could not take advantage, edging to the keeper.
No matter. Root was batting exquisitely, unveiling the odd ramp shot along with drives expertly clipped wide of diving fielders. Then a calamity that might have deflated a lesser side: a straight drive from Morgan clipped the fingers of the bowler, Dwaine Pretorius, and hit the stumps with Root stranded a foot out of his crease.
Now Amla committed the most costly error of a flawed performance by South Africa in the field. Stokes edged his first ball from Keshav Maharaj, who was making his ODI debut, and it passed straight through the hands of Amla at slip all the way to the boundary. Next ball another edge, just as thick, hit the gloves of De Kock.
Stokes was good enough to capitalise, with Morgan a steady ally until he was caught behind off Rabada.
Buttler was initially out of sorts, his timing awry, but he was able to acclimatise in Stokes’s wake. Then one crunching pull shot against Andile Phehlukwayo announced that the magic had returned. Three more boundaries from Buttler followed in an over that cost 22. For the first time in ODI cricket the fourth, fifth and sixth wicket of an innings exceeded 70. Moeen scurried effectively at the end again and England had enough – just.
Amid all the euphoria for Arsenal, there are bound to be people who wonder if these might also have been the ideal circumstances for Arsène Wenger to announce he was stepping aside and assure himself of a happy ending. His team had won, thrillingly, against the champions of England, making Wenger the most successful manager in the history of this competition. It was his seventh victory and, whatever his faults, a man with that record of achievement surely warrants the opportunity to go out on a high.
Equally, these are the moments when Wenger must be reminded what it is about football that makes it so addictive. It is not easy kicking the habit, particularly on the days when everything falls into place and this for Arsenal was undoubtedly one of them. They picked a good time to put in their best performance of the season, denying Chelsea the double on a day when Victor Moses joined the list of players to suffer the indignity of being shown a red card in an FA Cup final. Moses had collected two second-half bookings and the fact the second one came from a choreographed attempt to win a penalty probably summed up the state to which Arsenal reduced their opponents.
The only question for Wenger’s men is this: why can they not reach these heights more often? Arsenal were quick to the ball, strong in the tackle and, defensively, they played as though utterly determined not to let the fact they were missing key personnel influence the outcome.
More than anything, they were free of the self-doubt that has often infiltrated their performances against Chelsea. Mesut Özil, for instance, seemed absolutely determined to leave his imprint on the final. Alexis Sánchez, possibly making his last appearance in Arsenal’s colours, shimmered with menace and now has 30 goals for the season. Danny Welbeck brought a mix of speed and directness and when Olivier Giroud came on as a substitute, just after Diego Costa’s equaliser, it was his first touch that set up Aaron Ramsey for the game’s decisive moment. The cross was delivered so expertly it would have been almost impolite for Ramsey, with a stooping header, not to accept the chance.
By the end, it was starting to feel like a trick of the mind that the winning team had actually finished 18 points behind Chelsea in the league. Costa’s bouncing shot did briefly conjure up the possibility of an improbable comeback for the team with 10 men. But this was a poor day for Chelsea and it was rare to see N’Golo Kanté, for instance, finding it so difficult to keep up. Ramsey’s winner arrived within two minutes of Costa’s equaliser and when it comes to the first half it began with possibly the most torrid 30-minute spell Chelsea have endured all season.
All of which was some achievement for Arsenal, bearing in mind the issues Wenger had approaching this final and the list of absentees that meant this was Per Mertesacker’s first start for more than a year (and his first appearance in a three-man defence). Wenger experimented with Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, with lingering questions about his fitness, on the left. And then there was the perplexing choice of David Ospina, with Wenger deciding his loyalty should go towards a second-choice goalkeeper who will leave this summer while leaving out the one, Petr Cech, who will stay. Unfortunately for Ospina, it was a weak attempt to keep out Costa’s goal, though he did make amends later on with a splendid save to prevent the same player taking the game into extra time.
A goal at that stage would have been a reminder of Chelsea’s power of endurance but it would also have been largely unwarranted and Wenger was not exaggerating when he said his team should really have won by more. As it was, their first-half superiority brought only one goal and Chelsea are entitled to question whether it ought to have stood, not because of the argument about whether it was offside but more for the handball from Sánchez before he was in a position to shoot. There was no doubt Ramsey was in an offside position as Sánchez charged the ball down. Yet the Welshman had the presence of mind to step aside as the Chilean ran on to the loose ball, firing past Thibaut Courtois with the outside of his boot, and if the argument was purely about offside the referee, Anthony Taylor, and his assistant, Gary Beswick, did eventually get it right. The handball had not been noticed, however, and scoring so early, with only five minutes played, undoubtedly helped Arsenal settle more quickly than their opponents.
Chelsea’s struggles in the first half were epitomised by their carelessness in the buildup to the goal, when Costa managed to get in the way of Kanté and the ball was lost. Arsenal, in contrast, used the ball effectively and it needed a brilliant clearance from Gary Cahill to prevent Özil from doubling the lead after Sánchez led one of their quick, incisive counterattacks. Four minutes later, Welbeck’s header from an Özil corner came back off a post, struck Ramsey in the chest and ricocheted back against the woodwork before going out for a goalkick. Later, Özil hit a post himself. Arsenal could conceivably have made it a far more resounding win.
Chelsea did not lack adventure but it was not until the start of the second half that they seemed to remember they were supposed to be the best team in the country and, to be fair to Ospina, he made a fine one-handed save in that period to keep out Moses. Costa was a challenging opponent for Rob Holding, eluding him for the equaliser, but Moses deserved to go for his deception and Chelsea’s defence was strangely dishevelled as Giroud crossed from the left, Ramsey headed in and the most difficult, acrimonious season of Wenger’s managerial career ended happily.
When, having completed his 14th first-class double-century, Kumar Sangakkara finally fell, caught at long-off trying to stick Simon Harmer into the river, the stage seemed set – with the pitch brimful of runs and the sun beaming – for Alastair Cook to go just as large.
It was not to be as Tom Curran pinned Cook in front – so plumb he walked – shortly after lunch for a brisk 36. But the boy many folk in these parts believe is their next Test player, Dan Lawrence, stepped in, shelved his trademark extravagance and ground out a fine day for Division One’s leaders.
Sangakkara’s was an exquisite innings that had hauled Surrey to 369. Farming the strike in the company of the last man, Ravi Rampaul, Sangakkara was turning down singles on 199, a score he reached with a searing cut splitting two men in the deep. He had put on 110 with Stuart Meaker, one of two other batsmen to reach double-figures, until he nibbled outside off to Jamie Porter, who sent Amar Virdi’s off peg cartwheeling shortly afterwards.
Cook’s 44-ball stay, potted with lovely drives, gave Essex a sharp start, but they were pinned down by Surrey in a slog of an afternoon session. That was in large part thanks to the 18-year-old off-spinning debutant, Virdi, who bowled 12 overs unchanged from the River End at a cost of 22 runs. Zafar Ansari retired confident that Virdi was ready to play first-team cricket and it appears he was right.
Virdi is green, but beat the bat and found drift and turn, while poor deliveries were rare. Rory Burns persisted with him for seven overs after tea and while a first wicket was not forthcoming, nor were a flurry of runs, apart from successive silky smooth cover drives and a cut by Ravi Bopara.
After Tom Westley was caught behind driving Sam Curran, Lawrence, capped by Essex on Friday and with England Lions for the first time next week, batted with grace and maturity. With his pronounced trigger and easy manner, he was quick to pull and powerful through point.
Lawrence’s first partner was Nick Browne, whose touch partially returned in his first half-century of the season (although two balls later, he pulled Meaker straight to midwicket), then Bopara, with whom he has put on 89. Their next task is the imminent new ball. If Surrey are to leave with a win, they must make good use of it.
Should the weather stay fair, Hampshire’s visit to Taunton will not make it into a final day. After Somerset used the final 10 overs of the second day to knock 39 off their target of 259 for their first win of the season in an entertaining game on a turning track, the equation is simple: Hampshire need 10 wickets, Somerset 220 runs. Hampshire had a better day, besides a crazy hour after lunch in which they lost six wicket. They had efficiently docked Somerset’s tail, with Liam Dawson and Kyle Abbott taking four wickets apiece, to limit the first innings lead to 35, then all chipped in to make 293 in their second innings. Dom Bess, an increasingly alluring off-spinning prospect, took seven wickets (including the first five) to finish with 10 in the match.
Nottinghamshire’s inevitable march back to Division One continued apace at Trent Bridge as they skittled Gloucestershire for 149 (a first innings lead of 281) and invited the visitors to follow-on. When they did, Luke Fletcher, who, like Stuart Broad, took three first-innings wickets, picked up the scalp of Chris Dent.
Kent took a 205-run first innings lead as they bowled Sussex out for 164 with Darren Stevens again taking five wickets. Daryl Mitchell made 161 in Worcestershire’s 434, a lead of 196 over Northamptonshire, who they had reduced to 53 for two by stumps. There was another run-drenched day at Derby, where Derbyshire reached 532 for eight, with hundreds for Billy Godleman and Shiv Thakor and 97 for Gary Wilson, in response to Leicestershire’s 619. And on a rain-affected day at Swansea, Durham toiled hard for six Glamorgan wickets, as they reached 220 in response to 342.
Moving day was all about trying to stand still at the BMW PGA Championship on Saturday for the majority of the field, when the wind got up after two sweltering, airless days and self preservation became more of an issue on a day when not one of the 66-man field enjoyed a bogey-free round.
Andrew Dodt of Australia, a Queenslander who lives in Newcastle NSW, was the most successful in the afternoon and produced a four-under 68 to add to his pair of 70s and hold the lead at eight under. He said he has been working on the mental side of his game and did not realise how well he had done until he added it up at the end, but he will go out in Sunday’s last pairing with Branden Grace of South Africa, who started at five under, held the outright lead at one point, and signed for a 70 and seven under.
“You know it’s going to be tough when it’s breezy,” Dodt said. “But the last seven holes were a little easier playing downwind compared to the first two days. They were quite tough when it’s into the wind, so it was a little easier, but you still have to hit the shots.”
The Wentworth course is rebuilding its reputation after the disastrous revamp in 2009 led to the course being widely derided as unfair and produced a growing list of no-shows from leading players. With the US PGA Championship expected to move to a May date from 2019, goodwill is needed and quickly if the English event is to maintain its eminence, the more so if it takes up a new slot on the calendar, with September the most likely suggestion. The early signs are that much has been recouped already.
This latest revamp began days after Chris Wood won last year’s tournament, when all of the greens were dug up, four of them being reshaped and five partially rebuilt, and a sub-air heating system was installed under all 18 so the speed can be regulated and keep them firm and fast. Twenty-nine bunkers were also removed and those that survived were made less punishing.
“The greens are not putting the same and that’s a good thing” said Lee Westwood, who is making his 24th appearance and reckons he has been re-learning the course, more experience of which he got with his level-par round that was all about hanging in until he made good the early damage with birdies at the final three holes.
“It was great to finish like that and get back to level par. I’m five-under the tournament, and it feels like it’s right in there. The 16th has gone back to being a birdie chance. I like that they have taken the traps away on the left-hand side. It gives you some fairway to hit into. The green has been remodelled and it’s much fairer. It gives you a chance to get it nearer to the hole, and I took advantage of that.”
The Open champion, Henrik Stenson, like Westwood, dropped a shot at the 1st after finding bunkers with his drive and then his third shot, let more shots go at the 4th and 7th but repaired some of the damage with two birdies on the way back to sign for a 73. That gave him a share of fifth with Ireland’s Shane Lowry, who quietly put together a two-under 70 and said he hopes the weather and wind are the same for the fourth round.
Two of the three overnight leaders also started badly, Francesco Molinari and Thomas Pieters both three-putting the opener, wit the Italian managing one birdie all day and finishing with a 74 for five under.
Pieters, who has been staying in the neighbourhood with Sam Torrance and his family, blew completely despite a relaxing evening of darts and pool at the house of his former Ryder Cup captain and was four over on the back nine to complete a 78 and his chance has gone.
The third, Scott Jamieson, parred the first and lead outright for an hour, but is effectively gone after a 76.
Andrew Johnson had an eventful round for his 72, with two eagles and no birdies that left him at three under and in a share of eighth, and said he was disappointed with failing to capitalise on the closing holes.
Nevertheless he was happy enough, as were the throngs of autograph hunters for whom he was still signing 20 minutes after his media duties were over and delaying his departure home on the M25 to watch the FA Cup final and the boxing.
The round of the day came from Japan’s Hideto Tanihara. His 67 moved him up from 32nd to a share of fifth, while Belgium’s Nicolas Colsaerts, off in the second game at 8am, returned a 69.
Justin Rose was two under for a level total, Ian Poulter shot 73 for two over, Danny Willett had a 76 for five over, while Luke Donald, a winner here in 2011 and 2012 and who began at one under, had a disastrous 81 and that included a birdie at the last.
Willie Le Roux, full-back, 7/10 Had shown signs of nerves recently but took his first high ball comfortably and did well to stop Woodburn in full flow. The most accomplished of Wasps’ back three on the day.
Christian Wade, wing, 6/10 Barely got his hands on the ball in the first half – though lively when he did – and given a sniff of space he set up Daly’s score. No evidence of defensive deficiencies here.
Elliot Daly, centre, 6/10 Wasps’s solitary Lion was stepped by Devoto for Exeter’s second try. Did his best to make something happen but perhaps tried a little too hard until Wade’s kick ahead fell perfectly for him.
Jimmy Gopperth, centre, 7/10 The player of the season but left red-faced when he found himself in 14 different minds and dropped the ball. Good support line for try though and was hugely influential in the second half.
Josh Bassett, wing, 6/10 Handling was not great but was unfortunate that Daly’s grubber would not sit for him, which proved to be the story of his afternoon. Not out of place though in this star-studded backline.
Danny Cipriani, fly-half, 7/10 A stuttering start but showed his class with a delayed pass in the buildup to Gopperth’s try. Wasps needed a score at that point and he delivered. Much more composed after the break.
Dan Robson, scrum-half, 7/10 A bit jittery, as seen with one pass straight to Williams, but was on hand to put Gopperth away for Wasps’s first try. Improved as his side realised that patience can be a virtue.
Matt Mullan, prop, 5/10 A couple of carries but he was fighting an uphill battle against the mighty Chiefs’ scrum. Was ready and willing to replace Moore in extra time – but conceded the crucial penalty in the end.
Tommy Taylor, hooker, 8/10 Missed out against Leicester but deserved his recall. Constantly put his head where it hurts and made 10 tackles in the first half alone. Point certainly proved to the watching Eddie Jones.
Phil Swainston, prop, 5/10 Outgunned at scrum time by Moon – but not the first to endure such a fate this season – and was off before half-time with a head injury. Not the best way to end his Wasps career.
Joe Launchbury, lock, captain, 8/10 Does not lead with Churchillian prose but would fight them on the beaches, or wherever he was asked. No surprise that he was the top tackler. Simply did not deserve to be on the losing side.
Matt Symons, lock, 6/10 Quietly goes about his business while Launchbury gets through his usual super-human amount of work. All in all he has proved a shrewd acquisition for Wasps.
James Haskell, flanker, 7/10 A couple of dreadful early knock-ons but tried his hardest to make up for it by flying into his tackles. Once he had gathered himself, so Wasps followed which shows how much of a leader he is in this side.
Thomas Young, flanker, 5/10 Caught out by Nowell for the opening try. He was superb in last season’s European quarter-final between these two sides but could find hardly any room to gallop in.
Nathan Hughes, No8, 9/10 A remarkable showing. Thumped anything that moved and had a couple of bulldozing carries – none more impressive than in the bulidup to Daly’s try. Gave away the penalty that forced extra time though.
REPLACEMENTS Ashley Johnson 7 (for Taylor 64) Brought added physicality off the bench; Simon McIntyre 7 (Mullan 58) Made his tackles well – and plenty of them; Marty Moore 6 (Swainston 35) In the wars but battled on until extra time; Kearnan Myall 7 (Symons 58) Tackled, tackled and tackled some more; Guy Thompson 6 (Young 64) A crucial turnover in face of immense pressure; Joe Simpson 5 (Robson 58) Kicked more than Robson but less ball to operate with.
Phil Dollman, full-back, 6/10 Celebrated his first Wales call-up, at 32, with an excellent finish after Devoto’s break. Made some crucial tackles, too, in particular on Daly, but limped off early in the second half.
Jack Nowell, wing, 8/10 On this form it is hard to see who is ahead of him in the Lions pecking order. Timed his run perfectly for the opening try and covered well in defence. Just doesn’t stop.
Ian Whitten, centre, 6/10 A robust centre. Not many frills but was key in keeping Daly shackled in the first half. A hard runner, he kept the Wasps midfield honest if lacking a bit of penetration.
Ollie Devoto, centre, 7/10 Lovely step and offload to tee up Dollman and he has size on his side for a centre. Not in the initial England squad for Argentina but don’t be surprised to see him summonedon Monday.
Olly Woodburn, wing, 6/10 Loves to come infield off his wing and look for work. Undone by a horrible bounce for Daly’s try and, try as he might, struggled to involve himself in the second half. Busy in extra time, though.
Gareth Steenson, fly-half, captain, 8/10 Stood up well to barrage from Hughes and a well-timed hit on Wade brought some respite just before half-time. Like Gopperth, flawless from the tee – and eventually the hero.
Stuart Townsend, scrum-half, 6/10 An assured performance for someone who began the season on loan at Cornish Pirates, one box kick out on the full aside. Does not mind getting stuck in, either.
Ben Moon, prop, 7/10 One of the Exeter Originals, he caused Swainston all manner of problems at the scrum. Such an effective weapon considering how important attacking lineouts are to the Chiefs.
Luke Cowan-Dickie, hooker, 6/10 Not as conspicuous as in the semi but he relishes the physical stuff and there was plenty of that. Not as eye-catching a performance as his opposite number either but solid enough.
Harry Williams, prop, 7/10 Excelled against Sarries and picked up from where he left off. A classy scrummager but showed up in the loose, too. Could be the rough diamond Eddie Jones is looking for this summer.
Dave Dennis, lock, 5/10 Unheralded in Exeter’s engine room, but even by his understated standards it was a quiet afternoon for the Australian. Replaced on the hour.
Geoff Parling, lock, 9/10 Such lineout nous. Pinched one just before half-time and is so reliable on Exeter’s throw. Will be missed by the Chiefs and indeed the Premiership. So spirited throughout. Colossal.
Kai Horstmann, flanker, 7/10 Another of Exeter’s unsung heroes, particularly in defence when Wasps were on top at the start of the second half. Made 14 tackles in his 53 minutes on the pitch.
Don Armand, flanker, 8/10 The form forward in the Premiership over the past month or two, he does a bit of everything. Surely Eddie Jones will consider him as Haskell’s replacement in Argentina.
Thomas Waldrom, No8, 6/10 Built up a head of steam on a couple of occasions and kept on coming but was unable to continue his remarkable try-scoring record against Wasps. Just not quite his afternoon.
REPLACEMENTS Jack Yeandle 7 (for Cowan-Dickie 50) Plenty of carries; Carl Rimmer 6 (Moon 50) Rolled up his sleeves and got stuck in; Tomas Francis 7 (Williams 50) Not as dominant as Williams at the scrum, until it mattered; Mitch Lees 6 (Horstmann 53) Showed lovely hands for a man his size; Sam Simmonds 7 (Dennis 60) Got through a huge amount of work; Will Chudley 6 (Townsend 50) Kept things simple, moving the ball quickly; Henry Slade 6 (Dollman 46) Missed another attempted touch-finder but key tackle on Gopperth; Michele Campagnaro 5 (Devoto 76) Coughed up a costly turnover but kept himself busy.
Teeming, unforecast quantities of rain drenched Ireland’s premier Flat racecourse in the buildup to the Irish 2,000 Guineas, as if the elements were determined to provide a new test for Churchill, the latest “unbeatable” to emerge from the Ballydoyle stable. The imposing colt returned spattered with muck but with an extra sheen on his reputation, having powered past Thunder Snow for a comfortable victory at odds of 4-9.
“It wouldn’t be his ground,” said Ryan Moore on dismounting, noting that the track had been similarly muddy on the only occasion Churchill was beaten, when making his debut a year ago. “He went through it because he’s such a strong horse but that ground wouldn’t suit a horse with his class.”
It would have been easy to treat Thunder Snow’s claims lightly, following his baffling display in the Kentucky Derby three weeks ago, when he did a fair impression of a bucking bronco as soon as the stalls opened and was pulled up after a furlong. Connections still have no explanation for what happened there but evidently he remains a quality animal and, having won a Group One on soft last year, is a real threat if you are a bit worried about your own horse’s ability to cope with a sodden surface.
Thunder Snow duly cruised into contention at the top of the straight, easily avoiding the risk of being boxed in by Churchill’s two stablemates. But when Moore asked his mount to challenge, Churchill responded so quickly that he hit the front more than a furlong out – rather earlier than his jockey had planned.
Godolphin, owners of the runner-up, will have another crack at Churchill next month when Barney Roy takes him on at Royal Ascot in the St James’s Palace Stakes. Barney Roy has a length to make on Churchill from their Newmarket form this month, but Churchill was so good here that betting on an upset next time is, for now, an unattractive proposition. Bookmakers wiped off the last of the 11-8 about Churchill for Ascot and the 5-4 followed soon after, leaving him anat even-money shot with three weeks to go.
Aidan O’Brien has now trained an extraordinary 69 winners of European Classic races in his 20 years with a licence but seems no more inclined to accept the credit for same than when he started out. All mentions of the tally prompted familiar comments from O’Brien about what a big team Ballydoyle is and how privileged he is to be a small part of it.
He was determined, however, to make sure Churchill got his due praise and suggested the horse has become such a natural athlete that he instinctively knows how to prepare himself for exertion. “He gets a little big jig-joggy rather than upset [before a race]. His whole demeanour doesn’t change other than, I suppose, like an athlete warming themselves up. That’s what he does, he jig-jogs and then straight away back to complete calm. Then he jig-jogs again and back to complete calm but never gets upset in his mind, I’d say. Very unusual that way.”
Christophe Soumillon, Thunder Snow’s jockey, was briefer and more emphatic. “We were beaten by the best three-year-old in Europe,” the Belgian said.
O’Brien proved less fortunate with Acapulco, a late non-runner on this card because of a temperature. But he seemed confident the filly will recover in time to take her chance in one of the sprints at Royal Ascot.
Meanwhile, the temporary facilities here seemed under some pressure, despite a crowd of 3,000, half the formal capacity while the main stand is pulled down and rebuilt.
Better weather will be necessary if the expected 6,000 for Sunday’s 1,000 Guineas card are not to have a frustrating experience.
The Curragh has made an obvious effort to keep their customers happy and one can understand why management would rather not let the Classic races be run elsewhere but the outcome does not seem the ideal one from the broader perspective of Irish racing. A much better experience would have been offered if this weekend’s racing had taken place at Leopardstown.
FONTWELL
1.55 Kayla 2.25 Denny Kerrell 2.55 The Wicket Chicken 3.30 Keltus 4.05 Istimraar 4.35 Jack Snipe 5.05 Mount Vesuvius
UTTOXETER
2.05 Turn Turk 2.35 Beat That 3.05 Kalaskadesmilley (nb) 3.40 Nicely Indeed 4.15 Days Of Heaven (nap) 4.45 Royals And Rebels 5.15 Cosmic Statesman
KELSO
2.15 Champagne City 2.45 Perseid 3.15 Sudski Star 3.50 Ash Park 4.25 Charlie Wingnut 4.55 Monsieur Jourdain 5.25 Our Sioux Sue
When Frankie Dettori suggested at Goodwood on Friday that you could make a case for 10 of the runners in Saturday’s Investec Derby at Epsom, it was tempting to ask how he had managed to rule so many out. At this stage, there are at least a dozen colts in the betting that could improve by just a few pounds and either win or finish 12th depending on luck in running and how many of their opponents do the same.
For every point in favour of one of the runners there is at least one argument against and that is before the starting positions have been drawn for what promises to be close to a maximum field. This is a puzzle that every punter will approach from a slightly different direction, weighing up the form and odds in their own way, before quite possibly relying on little more than gut instinct in the end.
The basic rules, though, remain the same. It is not just the form that matters, it is the chance of success that the form implies versus the odds on offer. If the price is not right, move on, and neither Dettori’s mount, Cracksman, nor Cliffs Of Moher, the Dee Stakes winner, makes much appeal at around 9-2.
Either could easily be led back to the winners’ enclosure. Both can be ignored at the price. Cracksman was value for a little more than his narrow winning margin in the Classic Trial at Epsom in April, but that was the second race of his career and he still has plenty to prove. There are others in the race with similar profiles and Derbys have been won on a third or even second start in the past, but with a horse like Dubai Thunder, a one-raced maiden winner, that lack of experience is built into the price.
The apparent franking of Cracksman’s form when Permian, the runner-up at Epsom, took the Dante Stakes is also questionable, as the race was run on desperate ground. Perhaps Permian has improved into a genuine Classic contender since he was beaten off a mark of 100 in a handicap at Bath in April. Then again, perhaps he has not, in which case Cracksman is a very dubious favourite.
Cliffs Of Moher also showed clear signs of inexperience for much of his run in the Dee Stakes, but there was a real sense of his mind and body beginning to operate in tandem in the last 100 yards. He seems to be the best of Aidan O’Brien’s large team, but even allowing for significant improvement to come, a one-and-a-half length defeat of Bay Of Poets is not the form of a Derby favourite. Add in a lingering doubt over his effectiveness at a mile-and-a-half – his dam side has plenty of speed – and he can be passed over at the price.
Among the horses at 20-1 or bigger, Waldgeist will find some each-way backers because he is trained by André Fabre and beat three probable runners – Best Solution, Capri and Douglas Macarthur – in a Group One at Saint-Cloud in November. Defeat in the Prix Greffulhe first time up was less encouraging, however.
In the end, the one colt for whom the positives seem to most outweigh the negatives at a fair price is the Craven Stakes winner, Eminent. His form in Craven was the strongest in any colts’ Classic trial this season. He was not suited by the run of the race in the 2,000 Guineas but still finished just over three lengths behind Churchill, and Martyn Meade’s colt also seems sure to appreciate the step up in trip. At around 7-1 his price is very fair and while Cliffs Of Moher may be his strongest opponent, Dubai Thunder could be the one that sneaks into a place at much longer odds.
1 Eminent; 2 Cliffs Of Moher; 3 Dubai Thunder
Katarina Johnson-Thompson is not yet confident of speaking more than a word or two of French in public but the other lessons she has learned since her move to Montpellier last December are already paying dividends. After four events of the prestigious Hypomeeting, Johnson-Thompson leads a stellar field of heptathletes with 4,059 points, her best ever day-one performance, and appears on course for a massive personal best.
But the 24-year-old was not the only one to take advantage of the lightning fast new track in Götzis and temperatures that soared into the 80s. The Olympic champion, Nafissatou Thiam from Belgium, set two personal bests and equalled another to sit just three points behind in second, while the German Carolin Schäfer hit four PBs to be six points back in third.
It is the first time in heptathlon history that three athletes have been over 4,050 on the opening day and it is all set up for an enthralling finale, with Johnson-Thompson having the edge on her rivals in the long jump and 800m but knowing that she is significantly worse than them in the javelin.
“I honestly didn’t expect to be leading,” she said. “I’m surprised at the shape that I’m in because I didn’t feel like I was in top form coming into this so I’m really happy. I want to stay competitive on Sunday but I also just want to return to how I was as a kid, just enjoying it.”
On the eve of the event Johnson-Thompson had stressed that she was setting her sights low. Rather than targeting a personal best, she merely want to fall in love with the heptathlon again after two years blighted by injuries and savage failures at the world championships and Olympic Games. Deep down, though, she knew the work she had put in with the highly respected Bertrand Valcin and his coaching group was making a difference. But she did not know whether those French lessons would remain robust in competition.
She need not have worried. It helped that she started well, running a PB of 13.31 in the 100m hurdles for a score of 1,081 points, despite clipping three hurdles. As she saw the time she put her hand over her mouth in shock before a huge smile broke out. It would not be the only one of the day.
Next was the high jump. In Rio, Johnson-Thompson and Thiam had enjoyed an epic battle, both setting PBs as they cleared 1.98m, and their rematch here was nearly as thrilling. Johnson-Thompson was initially flawless. Utilising a new seven-step run-up rather than her usual nine, she cleared 1.80m, 1.83m, 1.86m and 1.89m easily on her first attempts. Thiam, too, scooted over the bar with ease, until the two of them were the only ones left standing at 1.92m. But while Thiam cleared it first time, the Briton failed twice before producing a big jump to clear on her final attempt.
Her relief was palpable, the smile enormous. A few minutes later history repeated itself at 1.95m as, once again with the pressure on, Johnson-Thompson soared over the bar on her third attempt. Thiam, meanwhile, went one better – jumping 1.98m to lead after two events with 2,285 points, while the Briton was in second, 33 points back.
Next, however, came Johnson-Thompson’s nemesis, the shot put – the discipline that usually singes her confidence and chances of glory. While most of her rivals are capable of throwing between 13.50 and 15.50m, she has often struggled to go over 12m.
The initial signs were not promising. The first attempt blobbed out to just 11.71m. But aided by an some on-site coaching repairs from Valcin, she followed up a second round throw of 12.23m with a last-round effort of 12.72m – her best ever in a heptathlon. As she walked away, even Johnson-Thompson would have understood Valcin’s loud cry of “Allez, Kat!”
As she admitted afterwards, she was particularly delighted with how she had responded under pressure. “Obviously, I had a shaky first throw and I was happy that I was able to respond,” she said. “Normally I would go into meltdown mode.”
Her score of 709 meant she dropped only one place, to third, on 2,961 points. At the Olympics, a poor shot put had sent her tumbling from first to sixth.
Thiam, who threw 14.51m in the shot put, and Schäfer, whose 14.76m was her third PB in a row, were both ahead of her. But Johnson-Thompson knew that the final event of the day, the 200m, was the perfect opportunity to claw her way back into contention. By running 22.81 into a 2.9 metres per second headwind, her second fastest time ever, she went into the narrowest of leads.
Whatever happens on day two, Johnson-Thompson will surely beat her personal best of 6,682. More significantly, she has laid down a significant marker for the world championships in London this August. After two painful years, she is a contender again.
The Premiership has known some staggering finales but never such a roller-coaster of emotions. Chiefs looked to have taken control when they led 14-3 after just 28 minutes; for Wasps to respond with 17 unanswered points was remarkable. Exeter’s storming response, with Wasps’ having to repel a 34-phase attack at a crucial juncture of the second half, also summed up both sides’ unbelievable resolve and collective spirit. Extra-time, with both sides on their last legs, was almost too tense to watch even before Gareth Steenson’s clinching penalty. A place-kicking contest would have been horrendous.
Stamina and nerve were ultimately the keys but people do not always appreciate how tactically savvy Exeter are. They are still widely perceived as a side who throw the ball around but their set-piece, driving maul and physicality now wins them as many matches. Their opening try was a perfect illustration. Wasps would have been anticipating a trademark wraparound play off the lineout; instead Luke Cowan-Dickie turned the ball back inside to his unstoppable fellow Cornishman Jack Nowell. Slick, crafty and effective. These Chiefs are far more than just wholehearted triers.
Even the most talented players are not immune to Cup final jitters. Danny Cipriani kicked out on the full and failed to find a penalty touch before settling down to oil the wheels of Wasps’ free-running midfield. Even Jimmy Gopperth, the Premiership’s player of the year, went to kick the ball, changed his mind and ended up throwing it straight on the floor with no one around him. Henry Slade, rightly lauded for his wonderful long touch-finder in the semi-final against Saracens, tried the same trick again and fatally overcooked it. It was not all down to the stiff breeze.
When the British and Irish Lions fly out on Monday Nowell and Elliot Daly may need assistance climbing up the plane steps after this 100-minute marathon. Both, at least, are in excellent form, having scored a try apiece and shown why they will be strong contenders for Test places in New Zealand; Nowell for his ability to break tackles on the gainline and pop up anywhere, Daly for his pace and all-round footballing qualities. James Haskell, in for the injured Billy Vunipola, was as inexhaustible as always but a couple of times the ball reached him and failed to go further with Wasps in prime attacking positions.
Wasps finished on top of the regular season Premiership table ahead of Exeter but on glorious days like this it is impossible to argue for a return to the first-past-the-post system for determining the champion team. A sun-splashed grand final, enthralled kids, a genuine sense of occasion and rival supporters sitting side by side united in friendly rivalry. Professional sport can still be tribal without losing its sense of humour or perspective; in many ways the club grand final is a more accurate reflection of English rugby than any Twickenham international.
What a final, they kept saying, and they were right, but these finals always are. Folk have of late noted that we will not need play-offs any more, when they stretch the domestic season to 10 months, smoothing out those crinkly weekends which overlap with the international game.
Yes we will. This is addictive. To be at Twickenham in high May is to see English club rugby at its best, and there is no reason to think it will be any different in high June. This time, as apparently every time, two superb, attack-minded teams cut each other up in their differing ways, Exeter by thumping Wasps through the guts, Wasps by unpicking the Exeter muscle. Twenty-two rounds could scarcely separate the two during the regular season, so 80 minutes had no chance. For the second time in four finals, we had to go to extra-time. Had to? It was a pleasure.
In the end, the relentless pressure of Exeter prevailed over the pressure-point stings of Wasps. One of those cruel penalties at a scrum, albeit yielded after wave after wave of Exeter attack, allowed Gareth Steenson to convert the winning penalty in the 98th minute, two shy of the full, extra-time-fuelled 100.
The identity of the winners, though, is but a detail on an occasion such as this. In time, we will celebrate the achievements of Exeter, from Championship to Champions in seven years, but for now we should celebrate the day. English rugby must be in rude health. Eighty thousand at Twickenham is one thing, but the deafening noise was tribal, the now-famous Tomahawk Chop lent an edge of omen in an arena like this, while Wasps’ single-syllable reply was reminiscent of the Iceland war chant popularised at the football World Cup, albeit on speed.
And then there was the speed on the field, Wasps’ so deadly, Exeter’s so relentless. But, if Wasps are obviously lacking in any department it is physicality in the backs. Exeter’s heavy-duty three-quarters, particularly the centres, were constantly on the lookout for chances to run at smaller men, and there was never one very far away.
Both sides made their errors in a match as pacy and entertaining as we had dared hope. Wasps, though, were noticeably the nervier for most of that first half. Exeter capitalised on their early dominance, although not as handsomely as they might have liked. When Jack Nowell was worked clean through off a lineout, we knew long before he touched down that he was not going to be stopped. Then Ollie Devoto, the biggest three-quarter of the lot, steamed through Wasps’ midfield to feed Phil Dollman, who steamed through the wide defence to the line.
Exeter know only too well what big-stage nerves can do a rookie team’s first half, having been that side in last year’s final. They recovered well enough in the second half then only to fall short, so they knew to expect a Wasps comeback in the second half. It came even sooner than that, when Jimmy Gopperth streaked through on the stroke of half-time with a Wasps classic.
The phenomenal Nathan Hughes, the one Wasps player whose physicality Exeter struggled to contain, had paved the way for that one, and he did the same just after the break, brushing off Exeter defenders as if they were merely irritating. Then it was over to those deadly little weapons in Wasps’ armoury, Christian Wade off down the right, the bounce of his kick favouring Elliot Daly. Tries either side of half-time – very All Blacks, very the stuff of champions.
For 20 minutes, it seemed Exeter would finish this final as they had started last year’s – as a bag of nerves – but they steeled themselves as the clock wound up. An extraordinary 34-phase passage ought to have yielded points with 10 minutes of normal time remaining, but they had to wait until there was only one before Hughes, of all people, offered up to Steenson the chance to show how nerveless he can be. He took it to draw Exeter level at the death.
The Chiefs’ physicality now started to tell. Wasps’ props were labouring, Matt Mullan having to come back on for the stricken Marty Moore, then suffering himself. The thought occurred they should give in to it and accept uncontested scrums, even if it meant going down to 14 men, as the regulations now decree. But they chose to soldier on, in the noblest tradition. It was to cost them.
Their pain must now be indescribable, Exeter’s euphoria likewise, but that is the corollary of any final and not the point. The final itself is the thing. To win one, a side must show the nerve of champions, no matter where they finish in the league. And the rest of us can relish an occasion for kings. Long may they reign.
A final between the two most prolific teams in the Premiership was decided by a kick rather than a try. Gareth Steenson’s penalty three minutes from the end of extra time after Wasps, who by then had lost both their tight-head props to injury, had infringed at a scrum for the seventh time settled a full-blooded but scrappy encounter that resulted in Exeter being crowned champions seven years and one day after they won promotion to the Premiership.
Exeter played as they had all season, looking to dominate the set pieces, retain possession and put their opponents in a chokehold. They enjoyed 68% of possession and territory in a final in which Wasps attempted 326 tackles to the Chiefs’ 141, but they were within 90 seconds of losing in normal time when Nathan Hughes, whose forceful ball-carrying had helped haul Wasps back into the game after they had trailed 14-3 inside the opening 30 minutes, was penalised for playing the ball at a ruck having been told by the referee JP Doyle to let go.
Hughes did not hear the instruction at the end of a match played on a humid day when the two sets of supporters tried to out-shout each other throughout. Thinking he had come up with what would surely have been a match-winning turnover, the pain on his face when he saw Doyle raise his arm 35 metres from the Wasps’ posts was even greater than that shown by various opponents the England No8 had run into during the course of the match and left flat on the turf.
Hughes had started the match intent on leaving his calling card on every one of the Exeter players but appeared to have waned after leaving the field for treatment on an injured shoulder. He helped his side take the lead for the first time three minutes after the interval with a run that was reminiscent of Jonah Lomu in his pomp, defenders bouncing off him whether they went high or low.
Wasps had hauled themselves back into contention in a match they had been throwing away with the last move of the opening half. Exeter had built their lead through two exquisitely executed moves from set pieces: the first, after 13 minutes, came from a lineout after a penalty had been kicked to touch. Kai Horstmann secured the ball and as the hooker, Luke Cowan-Dickie, ran from the front to collect the ball, Wasps braced themselves for a driving maul.
Cowan-Dickie headed for the midfield, taking with him the guard at the back of the lineout, Thomas Young who saw, too late, Jack Nowell making a run to take an inside pass. The England and Lions wingtook the ball at pace on an unstoppable run to the line and Wasps, whose moves had ended with knock-one or misplaced passes, had barely recovered when Ollie Devoto made an outside break from a scrum and slipped the ball out of the back of his hand to Phil Dollman.
They were tries of precision and simplicity but Wasps preferred more detailed embroidery, pining for the sublime moments the injured Kurtley Beale would have provided. They were uncharacteristically squandering overlaps and trying to force play against a team that is fertilised by errors when, with just a Jimmy Gopperth penalty to show for their possession, they conjured a move only they can in the final second of the opening half.
Danny Cipriani, who struggled to find his touch for the most part, cut the defence for Tommy Taylor and Dan Robson to pull the defence one way and then the other to send Gopperth under the posts and cut Exeter’s lead to four points before wiping it out after the restart when Hughes’s ran from his 22 to halfway after he had plundered a turnover led to Christian Wade chipping to the line.
Dollman, Exeter’s last line of defence, was still on the floor after being run over by Hughes and suffering an ankle injury that may rule him out of Wales’s summer tour. Steenson tried to cover the ground, but after the bounce of the ball left him stranded, Elliot Daly picked up to put his side ahead. Suddenly Wasps were in control, Gopperth’s second penalty after 54 minutes giving them a cushion.
Exeter looked out of it, but that is when they are at their most dangerous.
They had remained strong in the set-pieces and ended Wasps’ run of 17 unanswered points with a Steenson penalty after 63 minutes. It proved to be another momentum shift; Wasps settled into all-out defence and after Exeter had taken play through 31 phases and declined a kickable penalty that would have levelled the scores before being repelled at a second scrum, the trophy looked like being sent to Coventry.
Then Hughes overstepped the fine line that separates a turnover from a penalty, a tough call on an afternoon when Doyle had given both sides licence to compete for the ball. It meant a second Premiership final to go to extra-time and the Chiefs dominated the 20 minutes. Sam Simmonds, the match-winner against Saracens in the semi-final, was denied a try on review and a kick-off between Steenson and Gopperth beckoned until a scrum collapsed with three minutes to go.
Wasps had by then lost their two tight-head props to injury. As the Exeter tight-head Tomas Francis’s knee hit the floor, Matt Mullan was blamed for the scrum going down and up stepped Steenson, a Chief for nine years, who unerringly put the ball through the middle of the posts to complete an unlikely story and leave Wasps to reflect on the cruelty of a system in which you can come first but finish second.
If anyone claims winning trophies in Scotland is akin to defeating a hamster at chess, this Scottish Cup final should be used as the perfect counter-point. The scale of Celtic’s celebrations as Tom Rogic guided the club, and Brendan Rodgers, into uncharted territory told a story of what toil had come before. Rodgers and Celtic, this now-famous Celtic side, have completed an unbeaten domestic season.
It took a titanic battle with Aberdeen for Celtic to complete a clean sweep of domestic trophies. Rodgers is the third manager in the club’s illustrious history to win a treble. It was, though, impossible not to feel sorry for Derek McInnes and Aberdeen, who contributed so much to this final before quality – and fitness – told.
Rogic strode forward from midfield in stoppage time in what proved the last act of this campaign, the Australian’s low finish at Joe Lewis’s near post the precursor for outright delirium as the Aberdeen contingent sank to their knees en masse in dismay.
“This is a great day for the club,” said Rodgers. “I’m elated, this is an incredible feeling. Maybe the stars were aligned for Celtic this season, but don’t get me wrong: we have earned it.”
McInnes, the Aberdeen manager, did nothing to hide his upset. “We put so much into it that I’m gutted for the players and supporters,” he said. “We played our part in a great final.”
Jayden Stockley displayed the robust approach that surprisingly earned him an Aberdeen starting berth on 21 minutes. His arm caught Kieran Tierney in the mouth in front of the technical area, with the young Celtic full-back immediately in distress. After a lengthy delay, and on account of considerable bleeding, Tierney’s game was over. Replays were inconclusive regarding whether what Stockley did was illegal – his elbow certainly was not flailing – with only the player himself knowing about any element of intent. Tierney returned to raise the Scottish Cup alongside his team-mates, to a rousing ovation.
By the point of Tierney’s exit the teams had already traded goals. This was breathless, brilliantly entertaining stuff, with Aberdeen using the early stages to demonstrate they would not be cowed by Celtic’s lofty status. The Premiership champions were more rattled during the first half than at any juncture in their domestic season.
The last 12 teams to score first in the Scottish Cup final ultimately won the game. Jonny Hayes provided the men from the north-east that hope, having raced on to a Niall McGinn corner to send a first-time shot past the despairing Tierney on the line and into the Celtic net. Leigh Griffiths had been woefully lazy in allowing Hayes to beat him to the ball; a matter for which the Celtic striker visibly apologised to his goalkeeper, Craig Gordon, in the aftermath.
Celtic’s response was instant. Aberdeen did not properly halt a Callum McGregor run, with the ball breaking to Stuart Armstrong 22 yards from goal. The midfielder took a couple of steps forward before taking advantage of sluggish Shay Logan defending when picking his spot.
Aberdeen’s confidence was not blunted by Celtic’s intervention and they remained the better team until the interval. Gordon batted away efforts from McGinn and Ryan Jack before doing likewise to a net-bound Andy Considine header. Yet, curiously, it was Celtic who rued the worst miss of the opening 45 minutes, by Scott Sinclair after a tremendous Griffiths cross found him three yards from goal. Sinclair, who has been prolific during his first season in Scotland, somehow scooped the ball over the crossbar.
Griffiths’s shot was deflected narrowly wide, five minutes after the restart, as Celtic looked to assert their superior talent. That was not yet the signal for an onslaught, though; Aberdeen passed up a glorious opportunity as Hayes agonisingly failed to find the onrushing and free Kenny McLean with a cut-back.
With 15 minutes to play, fatigue set in for Aberdeen. Celtic spent the closing stages laying siege to their opponents’ goal. Sinclair again fluffed his lines when handed a simple chance to put his team in front.
Strangely, with the match edging towards extra time and potency required, Rodgers resisted any temptation to introduce the fit again Moussa Dembélé from among his replacements.
As with virtually everything that has happened since he arrived in Glasgow, Rodgers was proven right. Rogic, himself a substitute, left Aberdeen’s defenders in his slipstream. Celtic have long since done exactly the same to the rest of Scottish football.
With six riders grouped inside 90 seconds at the top of the standings going into Sunday’s final time trial, the 100th Giro d’Italia is set to provide what could be the tightest ever finish to one of the three great Tours. The Colombian Nairo Quintana wears the pink leader’s jersey after the last mountain stage, but breathing down his neck are three men: the defending champion, Vincenzo Nibali, France’s Thibaut Pinot and the Dutchman Tom Dumoulin.
Respectively, the trio are 39, 43 and 53 seconds behind Quintana, and two others have an outside chance – of the podium if not the final win – the Russian Ilnur Zakarin and the Italian Domenico Pozzovivo, who are 1min 15sec and 1min 30sec back. On the flat 29.3km from the Monza race track to Milan’s Duomo, Dumoulin – a dominant time triallist thus far and in last year’s Tour de France – looks to hold the aces but the race is too close to call; after three weeks in the saddle the riders’ states of fatigue will decide the outcome.
Quintana’s manager, Eusebio Unzue, believes the lanky Dumoulin will become the first Dutch winner of the Giro and Pinot appears to think the same – “it’s made for Dumoulin” – but the Dutchman was rightly circumspect. “I had a good day, but the time gaps tomorrow won’t be as big as in the previous time trial, definitely not,” he said. “I will have to fight for every second.”
Saturday’s final mountain stage to Asiago was a relative stalemate over the toughest ascent of the day, the 24km climb to the war memorial atop Monte Grappa, with the closing hostilities reserved for the short ascent to the plateau where the finish was located. There, Pinot looked the strongest, eventually taking the stage win after making his escape along with Quintana, Nibali, Pozzovivo and Zakarin.
Dumoulin rode the perfect race however, remaining within touch if not in actual contact, along with a second group of five riders; he eventually lost 15 seconds, although Pinot received a 10 second bonus for his stage win that could prove vital.
The gold standard for suspense in a three-week Tour remains Greg LeMond’s eight-second victory on the final stage of the 1989 Tour de France, and this could well provide something similar. That was a see-sawing two-way fight with Laurent Fignon, this is a subtly different four-way contest, but this is a scenario the organisers could barely have dreamed of after a torpid first week’s racing when the favourites observed each other closely.
The race took shape after the time trial stage in Umbria when Dumoulin gained so much time on the climbers that it became obvious they would have to carve out a substantial advantage going into Sunday’s time trial.
He backed that up with a hilltop stage win last Saturday, opening a gap of almost three minutes. That meant the final week’s racing in the Dolomites has centred on the attempts by Quintana, Pinot and Nibali to dislodge him and gain time, along with Dumoulin’s corresponding efforts to remain in close enough touch for his time trial strength to tell in full. He may just about have managed that.
That scenario has made for an enthralling contest, typified by Friday’s stage when Dumoulin made the basic error of being caught at the back of the group on a descent early on and Nibali, Quintana, Pinot and Zakarin took flight with a host of their team-mates in support. That led to 50km of intense battle, four squads riding flat out at the front of one group, four others – led by Dumoulin’s Sunweb men and Adam Yates’s Orica – chasing full bore at the head of a second string less than a minute behind.
As well as suspense, the final week has been marked by a Giro staple: what the Italians term polemica – a war of words between the race leaders, avidly inflated by the press. The discussion has centred on bodily functions and professional ethics, prompted by an episode on the toughest mountain stage of the race – two ascents to the snowdrifts of the Stelvio on Tuesday – when Nibali and Quintana pressed on after Dumoulin was forced to make a toilet stop late on, pulling into the roadside and stripping to his shorts, to the consternation of television commentators.
After their attack, Dumoulin called the Colombian and the Italian out for what he viewed as underhand conduct, although television images appeared to show Quintana and Nibali waiting initially as the race leader chased, fruitlessly. The following morning he and Nibali – whose verdict on the Dutchman was particularly harsh – were made to shake hands for the television cameras, although neither man appeared at ease.
Given that tense background, there was immediate speculation on Friday that Nibali and Quintana had escaped while Dumoulin had dropped to the back of the group to urinate on the move. The Dutchman quashed that rumour later, but that summed up the mood of intrigue. Sunday should prove to be a cliff-hanger, but at least in a mere 30km there should be no need for anyone to take a toilet break of any kind.
1. Thibaut Pinot (France / FDJ) 4:57:58” 2. Ilnur Zakarin (Russia / Katusha) ST 3. Vincenzo Nibali (Italy / Bahrain) 4. Domenico Pozzovivo (Italy / AG2R) 5. Nairo Quintana (Colombia / Movistar) 6. Bob Jungels (Luxembourg / Quick-Step) +15” 7. Adam Yates (Britain / Orica) 8. Sebastien Reichenbach (Switzerland / FDJ) 9. Bauke Mollema (Netherlands / Trek) 10. Tom Dumoulin (Netherlands / Sunweb)
1. Nairo Quintana (Colombia / Movistar) 90:00:38” 2. Vincenzo Nibali (Italy / Bahrain) +39” 3. Thibaut Pinot (France / FDJ) +43” 4. Tom Dumoulin (Netherlands / Sunweb) +53” 5. Ilnur Zakarin (Russia / Katusha) +1:15” 6. Domenico Pozzovivo (Italy / AG2R) +1:30” 7. Bauke Mollema (Netherlands / Trek) +3:03” 8. Adam Yates (Britain / Orica) +6:50” 9. Bob Jungels (Luxembourg / Quick-Step) +7:18” 10. Davide Formolo (Italy / Cannondale) +12:55”
Nerves can suffocate or liberate and few have embraced both ends of that neurological spectrum as dramatically as Johanna Konta. The days when she was so gripped by anxiety that she smothered her talent near to the point of disintegration are so distant it is hard to believe it is the same person who now strides into the locker room at Roland Garros as a respected contender.
This is her second slam as a top‑10 player, although it is on her least favourite surface. Nevertheless, in the absence of Serena Williams, no wildcard for Maria Sharapova and with the interim world No1, Angelique Kerber, still prone to the jitters, Konta has mainly herself and the clay underfoot to worry about.
To do otherwise would be to slip into the debilitating habits that consumed her when she was struggling to make a living or add even a meagre collection of points to her ranking total. It took her six years to break into the top 100, in June 2014, but just another two months to make the top 50. Once she struck a winning rhythm, her self-belief soared.
After moving inside the world’s top 30, in January last year, she blossomed. She was top 20 by mid-summer and cracked the top 10 for the first time last October. Three weeks ago, she hit a career-high No 6, although she has slipped two places since.
Most of her success has come on hard courts and while clay would not be her chosen surface she does not fear it. As she said after being drawn to play Taiwan’s Hsieh Su-wei in the first round: “A big part of the challenge is the time I spend on the surface, compared to the other ones.”
Elite athletes love the comfort of familiarity. They fear and abhor change. But Konta is learning to adapt. “It’s not just that I haven’t played much on the clay,” she says. “Obviously I have in the past – but it’s the level of players that I’m playing on the surface, which I haven’t had experience in. That’s a time factor.
“However, as a game style, it’s more of an adaptation process. Noticing how, for example, on the hard court, the movement side of it and then the way you’re able to take the ball early. Your general movement around the ball is slightly more straightforward than it is on the clay.
“I just need to keep adapting well, movement-wise around the ball. Also, being patient enough to build. The points are a bit longer here. The balls play differently off the court.”
Technically dry, perhaps, but toweringly important at the highest level.
Konta is not a machine, though. She talks as animatedly about gelato in Rome as the terre battue of Paris. She loves her food, music and driving her new sponsored car. But she keeps an eye on all around her on one of the most competitive circuits there has been in many years. Everyone is dangerous. Everyone is vulnerable. Nerves abound.
When the world No4, Simona Halep, was asked in Rome whom she regarded as the favourite for the French Open, she replied: “About 15 players.”
As it happens, Betfair have listed that number of contenders on a single‑figure percentage chance to win the title.
Kerber, who ought to be the logical pick but isn’t – partly because she does not like clay, mainly because her form is as reliable as an opinion poll – said she felt “not bad”. Having endured the humiliation of a bagel recently, she added: “It’s always different in grand slams. Always. The first rounds are always tough. Everything is possible. Always.”
However, this fortnight more than for a long time uncertainty stalks the locker room. Against all expectations but her own in her darkest times, Konta can be numbered among Halep’s notional 15.
A long afternoon in Monte Carlo lies in store for Lewis Hamilton. A circuit he loves to drive will offer little pleasure to the British driver on Sunday. That he qualified in 14th after a torrid session where he was knocked out in Q2 will be enough of a shock to the three-times world champion’s system but of greater concern will be the inability to work out why he was so far off the pace.
Kimi Raikkonen secured pole in Monaco, a feat that rolled back the years for the Finn. It is the first time he has claimed the top spot in nine years, since France in 2008 during his first stint with Ferrari. But Hamilton’s experience was correspondingly unfamiliar. This is the first time he has not made it into the final part of qualifying on pace alone since the Italian Grand Prix in 2013.
He struggled for grip throughout, unable to put his tyres into the correct temperature operating window and although his final hot lap in Q2 was stymied by yellow flags, he still only barely looked like he would make into the final shootout and was clearly disappointed.
“I was devastated after the session,” said Hamilton, who will start in 13th after Jenson Button’s demotion to the back of the grid. “To the point that I could not get out of the car.”
Overtaking is always hard at Monaco and this year will be even more difficult with this season’s wider cars, as Hamilton acknowledged.
“That’s pretty much the weekend done,” he added. “I will try to get into the top 10 but it will be a nice Sunday drive I imagine.”
It is a major blow in his championship fight with Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel, who took second on the grid, the first time the Scuderia has locked out the front row in Monte Carlo since Jody Scheckter took pole alongside Gilles Villeneuve here in 1979. Vettel has the advantage by six points and will expect to extend that significantly on Sunday afternoon.
Of greater weight, however, are the enduring implications in what is expected to be a season-long battle. Hamilton’s team-mate Valtteri Bottas also had difficulty with his tyres, although his third on the grid was only two-thousandths down on Vettel. In Russia Hamilton had similarly struggled while the Finn in the same machinery took pole and the win.
The Mercedes executive director, Toto Wolff, admitted that the team was still adapting to this season’s Pirelli rubber. “It seems to be a bit of a diva to get it into the right window,” he said of their car.
Hamilton said: “We had a similar scenario in Sochi, particularly on my side so I hope we can discover the issue moving forward. It is a very strange thing, a case of them going in and out throughout the lap. The other car was able to get it to work but I can’t see why we weren’t able to and it feels like a mystery because none of us currently understand it and it’s difficult.”
Raikkonen had his ride just to his liking and his final quick lap was masterful, within a whisker of the walls, the middle sector in particular was strong and Vettel had no answer. In contrast, Hamilton’s struggle to find grip and balance was evident from the off, he was six-tenths back from Red Bull’s Max Verstappen and 10th in the opening session. It was clear again in Q2 as he pulled off a big save holding the rear going into Casino Square – it cost him his first shot at a quick time.
His second attempt was no better; again lacking rear grip he ultimately had to abort his final lap under the yellow flags.
Mercedes have struggled all season to find the narrow operating window for their tyres, while Ferrari have proved repeatedly they are able to dial in to a track quickly and bring the rubber up to pace with ease. They did so again here but Bottas was able to almost match them while Hamilton could not, a pattern he simply cannot allow to continue if he is to stay in the fight for the title.
The two Red Bulls of Verstappen and Daniel Ricciardo were in fourth and fifth respectively, while McLaren managed to put two cars into Q3 for the first time this season. However Jenson Button, sitting in for Fernando Alonso, who qualified in ninth will start from the back of the grid after taking power unit component changes, which as things stand means Hamilton will start from 13th on the grid.
Carlos Sainz Jr put in another superb performance to claim seventh ahead of Sergio Pérez in the Force India and the Haas of Romain Grosjean. Stoffel Vandoorne finished in 10th in the second McLaren after crashing at the swimming pool causing the yellow flags that ended Q2, but has a three-place penalty after hitting Felipe Massa in Spain and will start from 12th. Toro Rosso’s Daniil Kvyat went out in Q2 in front of the Renault of Nico Hülkenberg, Kevin Magnussen’s Haas and Massa’s Williams.
Esteban Ocon crashed his Force India at the swimming pool in first practice but his team were able to repair it in time for qualifying and he finished in 16th, out in Q1 in front of Jolyon Palmer in the Renault, Lance Stroll’s Williams and the two Saubers of Pascal Wehrlein and Marcus Ericsson.
Watford’s new head coach, Marco Silva, has insisted the ambition of the club’s owners excites him. The Pozzo family have a record of firing managers with regularity, with the former Hull man the ninth incumbent since their takeover at Vicarage Road five years ago.
Quique Sánchez Flores and Walter Mazzarri were given one season each as just keeping the club in the top flight could not save them from the sack. It is an approach that does not intimidate Silva, who left Hull after failing to keep them up despite impressing in the five months he was in charge.
“Firstly, I really like the approach of the board and the owner,” he told the club’s website. “They showed me the project and I like the ambition. I’m excited. It’s a good challenge and I’m really happy. The club want to improve for the next seasons and this is what I try to fight for in my career as well – to always improve, to do a good job and to ensure a good connection between the manager and the club. The ambition this club has is really important to me.”
Sánchez Flores guided Watford to 13th and an FA Cup semi-final but they regressed under Mazzarri, finishing 17th after losing their last six matches of the season. Silva knows he has to improve on that. “It’s important to us that everybody knows what our goal is,” added the Portuguese, who has signed a two-year contract. “The club is moving forward as a Premier League club, but we always want to improve our position in the table and that’s important for next season. We want to play good football, so that our fans feel well when they come to see our team play. We’ll work hard every day to prepare for the matches and to do our best in every game.”
The Watford chairman and chief executive, Scott Duxbury, believes the club have stolen a march on their rivals in securing the services of the former Olympiakos and Sporting Lisbon coach.
“Marco was one of the most sought-after head coaches in the Premier League,” he said. “His pedigree and promise speaks for itself, with his achievements in top divisions elsewhere across Europe as well as his work at Hull last season. We are delighted to have secured his services and to be welcoming a head coach of his profile and potential. It’s an exciting time to be a Watford fan and I’m sure all supporters will join me in offering Marco and his family the warmest of welcomes to Vicarage Road.”
The symbolism will hang heavily in the air at Wembley on Sunday afternoon. At one end of the ground, a sea of red and white will offer a perfect demonstration of the positives that can be achieved when supporters have a say in the running of their club. Facing the followers of Exeter City, however, the swaths of empty seats in the Blackpool section will tell a sorry story about what happens when football fans are pushed too far.
The League Two play-off final pits together one supporter-owned club and another whose disenfranchised fans are so fed up with the people in charge that many of them are boycotting Blackpool’s biggest match of the season. For Blackpool fans who have made the painful choice to stay away from Wembley, winning promotion to League One is of secondary importance compared with the onerous task of getting the Oyston family out of Bloomfield Road.
There is an argument they ought to have put their protests to one side for a day. Yet for those who have vowed never to give another penny to the Oystons, whose stewardship of the club has caused so much anger, purchasing a ticket would have been akin to abandoning their cause. Their relationship with Karl Oyston, the chairman, and his father, Owen, was damaged beyond repair as soon as the pair launched libel cases against dissenting supporters.
In better times, the queue from the ticket office would have snaked around Bloomfield Road. Blackpool took about 37,000 fans to Wembley when they beat Cardiff City in the Championship play-off final in 2010 and about 30,000 when they lost to West Ham two years later. They have sold about 5,000 this time.
“There’ll be plenty of Oyston Out scarves in the ground,” Andy Higgins, a member of the Blackpool Supporters’ Trust, says. “Most of us think that if you’re going to go and finance that family, who are intent on suing supporters, you’re financing litigation. That’s when they went too far. Litigation against your own fans is beyond the pale.”
While the BST has been frustrated in its attempts to host a big screen event, at least it is likely to be a busy afternoon for the pubs in Blackpool. But there will be mixed emotions when the game begins. Some supporters want Blackpool to win despite the acrimony. Others believe that victory would strengthen the Oystons’ position.
“That creates division even before you get to the people who support the team and in some cases the owners,” Tim Fielding, the BST’s honorary vice-president, says. “But the best interest of the club is served by the owners selling up. I don’t think promotion will facilitate that.
“I spoke to Owen when he spoke to fans at the Blackpool Hilton last summer. I repeatedly asked him to stop suing fans and consult with the BST. And they won’t do any of it, so some people will not give them any more money. There aren’t exceptions made for Wembley.
“It’s taken a lot to radicalise us and the Oystons have managed it. We’re seen as the vanguard of the protest movement about fit and proper owners. We work closely with Leyton Orient, Charlton and Coventry.”
How the BST would love to emulate Exeter’s model. It has been 14 years since the Exeter City Supporters’ Trust took over, following relegation from the Football League under owners who had left the club on the brink of financial ruin, and Paul Tisdale, Exeter’s manager, calls the trust a “bubble in a rotten industry”.
Arsène Wenger is the only manager working in the English game to have been in the job for longer than Tisdale. Exeter were bottom in November but Tisdale was given time to revive his team.
Martin Weiler, the ECST chairman, says: “We’ve steadily had over 3,000 members and that’s withstood peaks and troughs in form. What we benefit from is an enormous outpouring of volunteering. For the semi-finals, we had a whole team of volunteers who came in to be trained in ticketing. We have a pop-up store in the middle of Exeter selling merchandise for the final. That spirit is worth an awful lot financially but culturally it reinforces the sense of ownership. It’s our club. Why wouldn’t we help it?”
Blackpool’s fans are forced to help their club in different ways. The BST protests outside every home game and that can lead to disputes with supporters heading into the ground. There have also been issues online.
“There are all these made-up user names on social media who will do anything to vilify the trust,” Higgins says. “Nobody knows who these people are, coming out and saying they witnessed verbal abuse and intimidation.”
The BST can only look at Exeter and wonder. “Scenarios like this have put paid to the argument that football fans know nothing,” Fielding says. “It’s about time there’s a radical overhaul in this country and fans were in the boardroom.”
Making history is the target for Fernando Alonso when he takes to the track for the 101st running of the Indianapolis 500 on Sunday afternoon. The Spaniard wants a win at the Brickyard to take him a step closer to claiming motor racing’s triple crown but Indy is such a formidable challenge just making it to the finish on his first attempt would be an achievement.
One of his team-mates is also making his Indy 500 debut but for Britain’s Jack Harvey just taking to the track alongside his childhood hero is the stuff of dreams.
Alonso has dominated the headlines around Indy this year and ducking out of Sunday’s Monaco Grand Prix to race with the Andretti team, heartily tired of his uncompetitive McLaren, was a PR masterstroke. Already a winner at Monaco, Alonso has made clear his desire to add Indy and Le Mans to the tally and match Graham Hill, the only driver to have won all three.
Alonso’s decision to switch series was unusual enough to garner huge attention. For Alonso’s rookie test at the Brickyard, more than two million fans tuned in to watch the live streaming, keenly aware of the task facing Alonso and Harvey. Dismissing the 500 miles of super speedway as simply turning left for 200 laps is a nonsense. Anyone who finally gets to swig from the bottle of milk and take the pace car home will have truly earned it.
Sébastien Bourdais, a former F1 driver and now a multiple Champ Car champion, knows his way round an oval but he crashed in qualifying and sustained multiple fractures. The cars run through the turns with entry speeds of over 230mph with as little downforce as possible. It is a dangerous combination. Across the 2.5-mile lap the characteristics of the corners, all with the same degree of banking and of the same length, differ widely. On entry to the first one cannot see through the corner and the rear end moves around. At two, unprotected by stands, the wind plays a role in affecting the delicate balance required. On the outside of all of them is the wall, which is close enough to make drivers hold their breath when it comes up close.
Alonso has taken to Indy cars well, while acknowledging the challenge. “It’s the only place where you are here for two weeks, at a four-corner circuit, and you never repeat two laps in exactly the same conditions, in the same wind, the same traffic,” he said. “Every lap you are out there, you need to keep learning.”
He was quick in practice, had a shot at pole but for a mechanical problem and starts from fifth on the grid on Sunday. And as the rookie Alexander Rossi proved last year, anyone can win this race if still in the mix come the final 50 laps. Alonso faces a tough field: there are seven previous winners on Sunday’s grid.
Among the field is the 24-year-old Harvey, who has made his debut at Indianapolis with less fanfare, but it has been an equally special experience. “I’ve always been aware of it because it’s one of the biggest races in the world,” he says. “What I didn’t understand was what it represented to people in America, the history, the prestige. It gave me goosebumps, it’s extra special. When they say it’s the greatest spectacle in racing I feel like it is. If you win the race, you’re part of history; its significance is contagious. You want to be part of it.”
Harvey’s journey to the race is familiar. Moving through karting and single-seaters, he raced and beat the current Formula One driver Carlos Sainz Jr in three different categories before the money ran out in his endeavours to reach F1. A switch to the US followed and in 2014 and 2015 he was runner-up in the Indy Lights championship. Finding backing continued to be a problem and so he leapt at the chance for a one-off drive this year at Indy with Andretti.
Sharing a garage with Alonso was more than he could have hoped for. “He really was a childhood hero of mine,” he says. “I remember cheering for him. Being able to be his team-mate and something of an equal in a similar situation in that it is both of our first 500s is incredibly special for me.”
Harvey, too, was reminded of the risks with a crash in practice and is conservative in his targets, aiming to take the best rookie spot (a task that would require him to finish higher than Alonso at the very least) but he knows that being in the mix is all important. “Absolutely I can win,” he says. “If everything falls your way, you can win the race. Alexander showed last year that anything is possible if you are still running at the end.”
Harvey will start from 27th on the 32-car grid, from where everything is up for grabs at the Brickyard. “Everybody has the opportunity to win and everybody hopes it might happen to them,” he says. “If it comes my way I will take it.”
That is a commitment that one can guarantee is strongly shared by his childhood hero.
Jenson Button is set to start last for what could be his final Formula One race after being hit with a 15-place grid penalty at the Monaco Grand Prix.
The 37-year-old former world champion is back on the grid in Monte Carlo this weekend following Fernando Alonso’s decision to participate at the Indianapolis 500.
McLaren’s season has been derailed by a series of problems with their engine supplier, Honda. The British team prop up the constructors’ championship having failed to score a point this year.
Following a series of changes to the parts on Button’s engine after an issue was detected following second practice on Thursday, the Englishman is poised to start his one-off race from the back of the pack.
“We have changed Jenson’s MGH-U/TC after detecting an issue with his MGU-H after FP2,” a Honda spokesperson said before final practice. “The MGU-H/TC will be Jenson’s fifth which means he will receive a 15-place grid penalty for the race.”
“It’s awful for Jenson and awful for McLaren and not expected at all,” the McLaren racing director, Eric Boullier, said. “But it’s Monaco, so we’ll try anything we can.”
Button was 12th-fastest in practice on Thursday before the 306th race of his grand prix career. Double world champion Alonso will be back in the McLaren cockpit for the next round in Canada. The Spaniard will start from fifth for his rookie appearance at the Indy 500 on Sunday.
The back three clearly made a huge difference, as did Antonio Conte’s man-management, but when Eden Hazard was asked in March what the biggest difference was between Chelsea this season and Chelsea last, he spoke of “automisation”.
Conte is determined the shape should be right, and that means long hours on the training pitch, often playing against no opposition. So central is shadow play to Conte’s method that when Italy practised it at the Euro 2016, all but the smallest core of coaching staff were sent away so details of precisely what he was doing would not leak out.
Arrigo Sacchi was another devotee of shadow play and when he introduced the idea at Milan, the response was bewilderment. “On match days, in the morning,” Sacchi said, “we had a special training session. [The Real Madrid striker Emilio] Butragueño told me that, before the [1989 European Cup] semi-final, they sent a scout to watch our session. The scout reported back: ‘They played a game with a full 11 on a full-sized pitch against nobody and without the ball!’ We would line up in our formation, I would tell players where the imaginary ball was and the players had to move accordingly, passing the imaginary ball and moving like clockwork around the pitch, based upon the players’ reactions.”
Yet the idea long pre-dates Sacchi. Conte’s Chelsea have become the first side to win the league title using a back three as their default formation since Everton in 1962-63, and they have become adept at playing that system by using another English innovation of the early sixties, one developed by the Burnley, Sunderland and Sheffield Wednesday manager Alan Brown.
Born in Corbridge in Northumberland, Brown soon demonstrated an ascetic streak. Aged 16, he ran 17 miles along the Tyne into Newcastle, rested for a few minutes and then ran back, part of an effort to improve his fitness as he prepared for life as a professional footballer. As a centre-half for Huddersfield, Burnley and Notts County, he developed a reputation for toughness and honesty.
Brown also set up a restaurant in Burnley as his playing career was coming to an end and worked briefly as a policeman before being named the Burnely manager in 1954. There he established a strong youth set-up, and oversaw the development of a training complex on the edge of town, helping with much of the physical work himself, and insisting his players also did their share.
“You lived in fear of him but there was no need to be because he was a really genuine, nice guy,” said Jimmy Nelson, a left-back who played for him at Sunderland. “He kept a very strict ship. We’d go down to Seaburn beach and we’d be training in skins in January – I don’t think bibs had been invented then. He’d have us training till the water lapped in over our ankles. We had individual baths then – slipper baths we called them – and you’d end up two of you sharing one of them because nobody wanted to wait. We’d all race back to the ground and get straight in just to thaw out.”
Brown insisted his players dress smartly and keep their hair short. He broke a family holiday in Bude in Cornwall to drive through the night to intercept Brian Clough and persuade him to sign from Middlesbrough before he set off on a cruise from Southampton. He became not just Clough’s manager but his mentor. He was also an influence on Lawrie McMenemy, Don Revie and Malcolm Allison.
Brown never stopped thinking up new methods of training. One summer, he walked the Pennine Way alone. When he returned, he’d filled a series of notebooks with plans for free-kick and corner routines. Not all his ideas were successful – Nelson remembers he once had his players practice heading with golf-balls, insisting it wouldn’t hurt if their technique was right – but his book Team Coach makes clear what an innovative thinker he was, how far ahead he was of the game.
Long before Pep Guardiola at Barcelona, he was an advocate of what are now known as rondos (a pig-in-the-middle game passing the ball past defenders in a circle) as a way of improving the maintenance of possession. Long before they were common Brown insisted on warm-ups, explaining how they could be conducted in the dressing room if it were impossible to use the pitch. A rhyme, he said, could be chanted during warm-ups to maintain rhythm and help morale: “When I was a laddie I lived with me Grannie and many a hiding me Grannie gae me, but noo am a mannie, I hammer me Grannie – it serves her right for hammering me.” (variants, presumably, were available for those uncomfortable with north-eastern dialect).
Brown also developed an early, slightly less complex form of what Guardiola calls juego de posición. Imagining a team playing 4-2-4, he paired up the left-winger with the right-sided centre-back, the left-sided centre-forward with the right-back and vice-versa. When one of those players had the ball, he encouraged his partner to move into midfield to offer an option for a short pass, his place then being taken by the nearest player to him in the same line, whose own place would then be taken by one of the two midfielders, creating a triangular flow of movement that would disrupt opposing marking systems while always maintaining that basic 4-2-4 shape.
A scheme like that, though, could only work if players were already comfortable in their shape – which is where shadow play comes in.
Unlike Sacchi, Brown would use a ball, but the principle is the same – playing against nobody to get the movement and the shape right. With shadow play, he said, players “become more imaginative on the ball… they become more selective in their passing certainly, and keener in perception and the reading of their colleagues’ movements.”
The points was not for them to become robotic but to have a level of automatisation, to use Hazard’s term, that permitted improvisation without being disruptive to the overall shape. Brown did not want puppets, always seeking direction from the bench. “The players themselves can get on and run the show,” he explained, “and, by their own decisions in movement on the field can get a response from the rest of the team.”
It’s an idea more than 50 years old but as Chelsea’s success shows it’s still extremely relevant today.
Not long after Eddie Jones was appointed by England he called a meeting at the RFU to address the dearth of openside flankers. Publicly, he played down the need for a specialist No7 but privately he was lamenting their absence. “I might have said: ‘I can’t see any natural sevens in England,’” recalled Jones this week. Richard Hill, however, had been casting the net further afield.
England’s World Cup-winning flanker, now the team manager but at the time responsible for identifying and developing young players, was aware of Sam Underhill, a former under-18 national captain who had moved to Cardiff to study and join the Ospreys from Gloucester.
Steadily, his name has come into public consciousness but it is only now – with Underhill having agreed to leave the Ospreys early and join Bath this summer – that Jones is able to select him. Unsurprisingly, he has done so immediately, starting him against the Barbarians on Sunday where a promising showing is likely to lead to his first cap in Argentina.
“I remember having a meeting with all the under-age coaches and we went through all the players that were available and Hilly said: ‘You’ve got to see this bloke play.’ And he was right,” Jones said. “I went and visited him every three or four months, just to have a chat with him, just to see where he’s up to. I didn’t beg him to come back to England because he’s got to want to play for England. He did and it was just a matter of finding how he could do that in the best way. The Ospreys have been fantastic in this.”
Underhill is 20 but there is a degree of hype because he is, arguably, the type of player England have not had since Neil Back was alongside Hill. Comparably, there must be something in the water in Wales. Sam Warburton and Justin Tipuric, Underhill’s team-mate at the Ospreys, are their leading lights while further down the pecking order are Ellis Jenkins and Thomas Young. James Davies has not made the summer tour despite a magnificent performance in the Scarlets’ Pro12 semi-final win over Leinster.
England, until now, have opted for abrasive flankers under Jones – Chris Robshaw moving to No6 and James Haskell playing at No7 – to nullify the threat of players in the mould of Steffon Armitage or David Pocock. Armitage was unavailable to Jones but he does face Underhill for the Baa-Baas while Jones did not like what he saw in Matt Kvesic and Will Fraser – English options as specialist sevens.
Robshaw, who co-captains the side, will line up next to Underhill and knows a thing or two about wearing the No7 jersey for England. “Playing in a different league I hadn’t seen too much of Sam but he looks pretty strong, confident and wanting to get on the ball,” he said. “He’s a good addition to the squad.”
Eighteen wins on the trot would suggest Jones’s approach of “two six‑and‑a‑halves” worked but while England were without Haskell and Billy Vunipola against Wales during the Six Nations, there is no doubting they were dominated in the back-row battle and Ireland’s trio also came out on top in Dublin. So is Underhill the missing link for Jones and England? “He’s definitely going to add something to us but he’s just starting,” Jones said. “He is at the start of what is potentially a Test career so I expect him to do the fundamentals well, make his tackles, do his clear-outs and be a link player but he has impressed. He has got a nice mature way about him, he is a very hard worker off the field and he has made a really standout impression in his first few days here.
“Any kid who goes off and leaves a club in England when he is almost guaranteed a progression through, goes off to Wales, fights his way and gets into the Ospreys, has got something about him.”
It would be wrong to suggest Jones is pinning his hopes on Underhill. There are eight uncapped players starting at Twickenham on Saturday and a further seven on the bench, including Sale’s 18-year-old flanker Tom Curry, a late replacement for his twin brother, Ben. “They are going to be something if they stick at it, stick at the basics of their game,” Jones said. “They’ve got good work ethics, they love the game and they want to get better. We’ve turned up three in one batch.”
I took up ashtanga yoga in 2002, just after the death of my dad. My mum bought me a book token for my birthday and had written “love from Mum – and I’m sure Dad too”. I wanted this “parting gift” to be something that would help me remember him. I was in Waterstones and a book called Power Yoga by Beryl Bender Birch grabbed my attention immediately. That book changed my life. I’ve not stopped practising yoga since.
There are many forms of yoga, but ashtanga is one of the most physical. It involves a set series of movements – the same every time – which takes just over an hour to complete. (Though some days, if I haven’t got time, I’ll just do what I can.) You’re either holding a posture for five deep breaths, or moving into the next one. That’s what appealed to me about ashtanga: once you start, you move right to the finish.
There are a lot of postures to get through, and it’s quite demanding. I’ve seen gym-oriented people who go to an ashtanga yoga class and are surprised by how physical it is. You’re using all your muscles, including ones you don’t even realise you’ve got. It’s a great way to keep fit. I’m more muscular than I was and so much stronger, especially in my upper body, arms and back.
Ashtanga yoga requires a continuous deep breathing that you maintain all the way through the series; it’s actually more important to maintain that breath than the postures themselves. The spiritual side of yoga can be overemphasised and put people off, but yoga helps clear my mind. Some people can sit and meditate, but that’s not me. I have to have that physical focus to quieten my inner voice. When my husband died in 2008, aged 43, I hit rock bottom. Yoga was the one thing I managed to hold on to. You can feel so distraught, it can drown you. But yoga, having that time to myself, was a way of coping. I’m not fanatical about yoga but I know how much happier I am through doing it.
How often do you practise? Five times a week.Pre-ritual? I light a candle and shut my curtains.Hardest posture? Crab, where you stretch your arms out backwards and land on your palms.
1 There are lots of different styles of yoga and, even within each style, every teacher is different. There are plenty of down-to-earth and accessible classes – it’s worth persevering until you find the right one for you.
2 The only thing you really need is a mat, so that your hands and feet don’t slip on the floor. You can wear whatever you like as long as it doesn’t restrict your movement – something stretchy is ideal.
3 Yoga is all about conscious breathing, so get familiar with it by placing one hand on your belly, the other on your chest, and focus on taking on slow, deep breaths. Try counting to five as you breathe both in and out.
4 Don’t worry about demanding postures – start simply by trying to stand tall, with your feet under your hips, shoulders down and crown of your head lifted towards the ceiling. Try the breathing exercise as you stand.
5 Yoga isn’t about whether you can touch your toes or how you look in leggings. It’s open to anyone at any time in their lives, for a good stretch, to gain peace of mind, or even to learn tricks. Annie Rice, yoga teacher
• Do you have a passion for exercise? Send your story to fitness@theguardian.com
A clutch captain’s goal from Jarryd Roughead delivered Hawthorn a six-point win over AFL rivals Sydney on Friday night at the SCG.
Roughead converted a tough set shot from beyond the 50m arc with 80 seconds remaining as the Hawks triumphed 12.9 (81) to 11.9 (75).
The visitors looked to be on track for a comfortable victory earlier in the game, but the Swans launched a barnstorming comeback during the third quarter.
Sydney led by seven points late in the final term after kicking five consecutive goals, a run that Lance Franklin started with a trademark showstopper from outside the 50m arc.
Shaun Burgoyne, who slotted his second astonishing goal of the night, and Roughead ensured there was one final twist.
Franklin, who booted five goals, was awarded the Goodes-O’Loughlin medal for best on ground.
Franklin and Burgoyne were both wearing No 67 to recognise the 50th anniversary of the referendum that was a landmark achievement for Indigenous Australians. Both stepped up superbly in Indigenous Round.
Franklin moves to 10th on the list of VFL/AFL goalkickers after lifting his career tally to 819.
He also dished off a handful of goals, while his pressure acts were influential in the Swans’ stirring third-quarter fightback.
The Swans, coming off consecutive six-day breaks, rallied despite having only two fit men on the bench.
Jake Lloyd was knocked out early in the first quarter, while Sam Reid failed a concussion test after being slung to the ground by Burgoyne during the second term.
It was a spiteful match, with Sydney’s Zak Jones among many players from both sides likely to sweat on the match review panel’s findings.
Dan Hannebery and Josh Kennedy tallied a combined 68 disposals for the Swans, while Liam Shiels laid 10 tackles and had 31 possessions for the Hawks.
“It was satisfying because we had our backs to the wall and we were challenged,” Hawks coach Alastair Clarkson said. “We lost a close game in similar circumstances against Collingwood last week. We’ve been pretty good in clutch games in recent times.”
Clarkson was full of praise for leaders Burgoyne, Roughead and Luke Hodge but also former charge Franklin.
“Sometimes it’s a little bit hard to admire when you’re an opposition coach,” Clarkson said. “He consistently does brilliant things.”
Swans counterpart John Longmire agreed Franklin was “enormous”.
Longmire cut a desolate figure after the game, with the Swans slipping to a win-loss record of 3-7 after the upset.
“We had some courageous efforts (when the side was down to two fit men on the bench during the second half) ... unfortunately it was not enough,” he said. “We didn’t play the footy that we wanted to.”
But the coach was reluctant to criticise his players, given how taxing the contest was.
“You say it how it is,” he said, when asked what his message to the team was.
“There were some huge efforts in the second half ... unfortunately not enough to hold on.”
“Some blokes dug in and competed, they pushed themselves to their absolute limits,” Longmire said.
However, the Swans were physically and mentally exhausted during the final five minutes of the game – and it showed.
They failed to man the mark correctly for Jarryd Roughead’s match-winner with a tick over a minute remaining. That chance had come about only because reigning Rising Star winner Callum Mills turned the ball over instead of having a shot to put the Swans in front.
“We did some things we’d probably do better if we had another opportunity to, in the last few minutes,” Longmire said.
“Whether they were fatigued and couldn’t think clearly, or couldn’t (physically) quite get the distance in the kick, it was probably a couple of those things together.”
Connections of the speedy, mudloving Quiet Reflection have been pinning their hopes on forecasts of significant rain at Haydock on Saturday morning. But those same forecasts deterred course officials from watering the track and, now that so much less rain seems to be expected, the result will surely be a fast surface at the Merseyside track today.
I imagine Quiet Reflection will eventually be a non-runner in today’s Temple Stakes, leaving Washington DC as a strong favourite. He seems classy and consistent but might again find one too good in Kachy (4.05), from the Tom Dascombe yard that gets so many winners at this local track.
Kachy loves a bit of fast ground and may have turned in a career best in the Palace House last time, but for making an unusually slow start, possibly because of another rival crossing him. Even so, he travelled kindly and ran on well. There may be more to come.
2.00 Goodwood Mount Logan might be the pick of these but had to work hard to scramble home in this race last year and it could be worth taking him on for this seasonal reappearance. Abdon needs to build on his reappearance fourth in the Earl Of Sefton but it was interesting to see his stablemate Autocratic, sixth in that race, come out and win the Brigadier Gerard on Thursday.
2.20 Haydock Having started last season strongly, Parliamentarian became slightly disappointing but is entitled, on breeding, to take another step forward this year. He comes from a hot yard and should appreciate the extra distance.
2.40 York Dal Harraild improved nicely through last season, finishing with a win at this level at Newmarket in September. He needed his reappearance run last season, however, and it may be the same this time round, as he was a modest fourth in the John Porter last month. William Haggas’s gelding can resume his progress here.
2.55 Haydock This track was riding fast yesterday and, with the rain disappearing out of the forecast, front-runners might prove hard to peg back if they go a sensible pace. This may work out well for Rusumaat, who tried to make all at Ascot last time but ran into a promising rival. He’s been showing a useful level of form in defeat.
3.10 Goodwood Horroob looks one to stick with on the back of two wins on Lingfield’s Polytrack, quickening nicely to take advantage of a gap on the most recent occasion. He seems to have a good reputation at Roger Varian’s yard and is still fairly treated, though this is a tricky track for a 7lb claiming jockey.
3.30 Haydock Clive Cox has another flashy sprinter in Harry Angel, who was beaten only by the top-class Blue Point at Ascot last time, giving that rival 4lb. The yard has not been in brilliant form but a couple of recent winners restores confidence.
3.50 York The safety blanket in this tricky sprint handicap is Out Do, twice a course and distance winner in 2015. He didn’t do much last year but descended to a beatable rating as a result and showed renewed promise when third on his reappearance.
4.10 The Curragh The Irish 2,000 Guineas will not, alas, be shown on British terrestrial TV today, though you can watch it on At The Races. Churchill’s dominance of the three-year-old mile division might not survive beyond June but, for now, he is the unbeatable power and should follow up his Newmarket success, with two of his five rivals here being stablemates. Irishcorrespondent is unbeaten but takes a huge step up in class and his pedigree hints at limitations. Thunder Snow is a more plausible danger and only has two lengths to make on Churchill from their Dewhurst form but his abortive trip to Kentucky cannot have been the ideal preparation.
Chester 1.55 Musical Terms 2.30 Rose Berry 3.05 Fastnet Tempest 3.40 Sands Chorus 4.15 Yafta 4.50 Emperor Napoleon 5.20 Okool
Goodwood 2.00 Abdon 2.35 Billesdon Brook 3.10 Horroob 3.45 Second Step 4.20 Batts Rock 4.55 Pettochside 5.25 Music Lesson
York 2.10 Golden Stunner 2.40 Dal Harraild 3.15 Sean O’Casey (nap) 3.50 Out Do 4.25 Zaman 5.00 Miss Sheridan 5.30 Madroos
Cartmel 2.15 Minotaur 2.45 Restraint Of Trade 3.20 Go West Young Man 3.55 Space Ship 4.30 Dursey Sound 5.05 Cousin Oscar 5.35 Jester Jet (nb)
Haydock 2.20 Parliamentarian 2.55 Rusumaat 3.30 Harry Angel 4.05 Kachy 4.35 Gravity Flow 5.10 Janszoon 5.40 Tai Sing Yeh
Salisbury 5.45 Bodybuilder 6.15 Indian Affair 6.45 Gloriux 7.15 Going Up 7.45 Magic Beans 8.15 Gunmaker
Ffos Las 6.00 Captain George 6.30 Looks Like Power 7.00 Market Road 7.30 Fortified Bay 8.00 Heist 8.30 Theatre Stage 9.00 Mac Tottie
Petr Cech has been dropped by Arsène Wenger for the FA Cup final against Chelsea on Saturday and David Ospina will make a surprise start in goal. Cech is devastated by the decision. It was thought that he suffered a slight knock in training but he is now ready to take his place on the bench.
Wenger has had to mix and match at the back in the face of selection problems and he will ask Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, who is fit again after hamstring trouble, to step in at left wing-back in his 3-4-2-1 formation. Hector Bellerín will continue at right wing-back. The left-back, Kieran Gibbs, has been struggling with a thigh problem.
Wenger’s major doubt concerns Shkodran Mustafi, who suffered a concussion in the Premier League win at home to Sunderland, and the centre-half is not expected to be fit for Wembley.
Two other centre-backs – Laurent Koscielny and Gabriel Paulista – are out through suspension and knee ligament damage respectively, so Wenger is set to turn to Per Mertesacker in the position. Mertesacker returned to action as a substitute in the home win over Everton on Sunday after nearly 13 months out with a knee injury.
Mertesacker said he has “never played in a back three”. He added: “When I was young, I started in a back four and that was my position from then on for the last 15 years. Everyone starts from zero with that new system.
“Am I able to play for 90 minutes? I cannot tell you. I haven’t played this year. But I have done this for 15 years, so I expect myself to be absolutely ready, no matter what comes. I am going to go for it. I owe it to this team and this club. I want to make sure I will be ready and my mind-set is 120 minutes, plus penalties.”
Wenger had suggested on Wednesday that he would start with Cech over Ospina, despite having favoured his back-up goalkeeper on FA Cup runs. Ospina played in all eight of Arsenal’s Champions League ties this season, plus the first three rounds of the FA Cup.
Wenger stressed that Cech, his No1, had started in the semi-final win over Manchester City last month. “Will Cech play against Chelsea? It is possible,” Wenger said. “We will see.” Ospina, who is expected to leave the club in the summer, now has his chance.
As he stands on the verge of history, Brendan Rodgers has urged Sunderland to move for Derek McInnes, the key figure standing between Celtic and that unprecedented achievement.
Should Celtic see off Aberdeen in Saturday’s Scottish Cup final, they would complete an unbeaten domestic season and trophy treble. Intriguingly, Rodgers used his pre-match media duties to speak effusively of McInnes, the Aberdeen manager who features on the list of candidates to replace David Moyes at the Stadium of Light. A historic connection to the Sunderland chief executive, Martin Bain, is pertinent with regards to McInnes, as is a relatively paltry compensation payment in the region of £500,000.
“I saw that [link] during the week and I think he is absolutely perfect for it,” said Rodgers. “It’s a big club that has had a change and now needs someone who can go in there and who can organise, someone who has been at a big club and Derek has been at big clubs.
“He has been down in England and had a difficult time so he gets that and he has done a great job with Aberdeen, which is a big job.
“He would go in, give them a bit of life, get them organised. He knows the game, he can engage with players, he can motivate players.
“The Championship is a tough league. I got promoted there with Swansea and it is 46 games of graft and work and commitment. It would be brilliant for him if that is what he wanted to do and certainly a club of that magnitude – it is a big club, Sunderland – and for me he would be perfect.”
The difficult time to which Rodgers referred was at Bristol City, who sacked McInnes in January 2013. The former Rangers and West Bromwich Albion midfielder has aspirations to return to England at some stage. However on Friday McInnes played down a switch to the Stadium of Light.
“It hasn’t been a distraction,” he said. “I’m protective of my own career. There have been opportunities to move in the past but I have never been in any real rush to leave Aberdeen.
“If we continue to do our jobs well there may be opportunities in the future, but a lot of things would have to be right for me to consider leaving. I made a bad decision leaving St Johnstone for Bristol City.”
The immediate task in hand relates to whether Aberdeen, who have been beaten five times by Celtic this season, including the League Cup final, which they lost 3-0, can prevent Rodgers from becoming the third manager in his club’s history to deliver a treble.
“I don’t think so much about that,” said Rodgers. “I’ll think about it after, if it happens. If it does, great. If it doesn’t, it’s OK, I’ve done my best. We’ll go again next year and try to do the same thing. History always judges you as a manager and a player. I just hope in my time here, this season and beyond, I can do my very best.
“It has been a brilliant season, no matter what the result is. The whole club is very much going in the same direction.”
Rodgers has added the fit-again Moussa Dembélé to his squad, the French striker having recovered from the hamstring injury picked up in the semi-final win over Rangers. The likelihood, though, is that the in-form Leigh Griffiths will start in attack.
Arsène Wenger has not been forthcoming in his media conferences for some time and the regulars who travel to see him at Arsenal’s training ground in St Albans would say he is particularly guarded before a big game. This week was no exception. But before the FA Cup final against Chelsea on Saturday, the manager brought some extra ingredients – exasperation, defiance and a series of digs; some veiled, others the equivalent of going in two-footed.
Take the one that related to Tony Adams. The club’s former captain has a new book out, which led to one headline about how Wenger “couldn’t coach his way out of a paper bag”. Understandably, it went down badly with him.
Adams also writes about the FA Cup final in 2001, when Arsenal lost to Liverpool and, according to him, Wenger threw his runners-up medal into a bin in the dressing room. “I don’t remember [that],” Wenger said. “Don’t trust too much to what Tony Adams says.”
Wenger reheated another recent bug-bear when he segued into an apocalyptic vision for football in the coming decades. “Maybe we’ll have a robot on the bench who will make the decisions and the computer will analyse exactly what decisions he makes during the game,” he said. “You might not even have human beings on the bench anymore.”
On 9 May, Wenger had talked for the first time about how computers could come to replace managers. “Maybe we will have enough computers around the manager to analyse the game and, straightaway, he pushes on the button and, after the game, comes out the team for the next game,” he said.
Arsenal have come to rely, increasingly, on analytics – an approach driven by the chief executive, Ivan Gazidis – and it is not something that sits easily with Wenger, who has come to look more and more old school.
At the heart of everything for Wenger is the notion of control, and at the end of surely the most divisive season of his career it is not difficult to paint him as being embattled to the point of paranoia.
The issue of whether he stays or goes next month, after the expiry of his contract, has been allowed to cast long shadows over the campaign and drive the supporters to distraction. But Wenger was not about to put anyone out of their misery before the Cup final.
There was one last dodge of the question and yet more reiterations of how he had always fought until the final day of his contracts. “This is not about me,” he said, sighing and, yet again, he made plain his incredulity that the subject should even be up for discussion which, in itself, was incredible.
“I focus on football,” he said. “One of the big problems in the modern society is that the big companies sit there not any more to make the decisions that are good for the company but is it popular or not? I don’t care about that. I just want to always make a decision – is it right or is it wrong, is it good or not? All the rest for me is artificial debate.”
Wenger believes that he has done enough to merit the new two-year deal that has been on the table since the early months of the season. He talked about how the Cup final would have zero bearing on the decision and of his intention to carry on as a manager next season, either at Arsenal or elsewhere. Wenger is addicted to the job.
To his mind, 75 points is a respectable tally with which to finish the Premier League season and it has just been Arsenal’s misfortune that, for the first time, there have been four clubs who have collected more. And they could yet finish with a trophy. “Believe me, the 18 other managers in the league would like to be in our position on Saturday,” Wenger said.
The omerta on Wenger’s position has, unsurprisingly, extended to the dressing room. Danny Welbeck, Per Mertesacker and Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain were asked about it during the week and they said, variously, that they had no idea or they did not want to comment.
Mertesacker had a typically strident view. “You cannot let yourself down or use excuses about the environment or the manager’s future,” he said. “This is not my approach and it is not the team’s approach. This is not our excuse. We have to look at ourselves in the mirror and see what’s next for us.”
Welbeck and Oxlade-Chamberlain made it clear that although they were determined to win the Cup, it would go only a short way to making up for the failure to secure a top-four finish and Champions League football for next season.
But they will carry hope to Wembley, largely because of the stability they have shown since Wenger’s switch to a 3-4-2-1 formation at Middlesbrough on 17 April. They have won eight of their nine matches with the system – the lone reverse being in the derby at Tottenham Hotspur.
The Cup final is likely to be decided by how Wenger’s patched-up rearguard contend with Diego Costa, Eden Hazard & Co. “Over the years, we have always played in a certain formation and I think teams get better at learning how to deal with us,” Oxlade-Chamberlain said. “When we changed the formation, that gave them something new to think about and the results have started coming.”
Mertesacker said: “We feel more compact and accepting [of the need] sometimes to just defend. With a back four, we felt that we have to get the ball, we have to play, we have to press. But especially against Man City [in the Cup semi-final], we allowed ourselves just to defend from the box and not even open up too much. You have to adjust. Whatever is necessary for Arsenal, we do it.”
The summer is certain to bring further challenges and the impression is of a club being buffeted by uncertainty. Alexis Sánchez, Mesut Özil and Oxlade-Chamberlain are among the players who are poised to enter the final year on their contracts and others, such as Héctor Bellerín, would be receptive to moves away. Sánchez is a prime target for Chelsea.
Against it all, Wenger endures. He denies chucking medals in the bin but he has no time for trinkets and sentimentality. “You come to my house and you will be surprised,” he said. “I have no medals, no trophies, nothing. You would not even guess I am a football manager, apart from the fact that a game is on.
“I always give my medals out. There is always a guy at the club who did not get one and I give mine to him.”
Wenger describes himself as a person who is “not a back-looker, only forward”. At long last, the future is set to become clearer.
There have been many moments already this season to suggest Leeds and Warrington are on different paths – this was perhaps the most conclusive of them all. A year ago, it was Leeds toiling at the wrong end of Super League while Warrington pressed ahead for major honours, finishing with the League Leaders’ Shield and appearances in both major finals.
There is a way to go yet before Leeds can reach any of those milestones, but the annus horribilis that was 2016 is slowly being cast further into the back of everyone’s minds at the Rhinos. This year has been much more like the Leeds of old – and how fitting it was that in their biggest ever Super League victory against Warrington, some of their old guard stole the show.
The captain, Danny McGuire, was magnificent and he was ably supported by fellow veterans Rob Burrow and Jamie Jones-Buchanan, both of whom scored tries in this comprehensive victory. But there is also a nod to the future in this Leeds team – Matt Parcell looks a fine acquisition since arriving from the NRL, to name but one example.
“It was clinical and the further the game went on, the better we got,” said the Leeds coach Brian McDermott, whose side moved up to third following Hull’s defeat to Leigh. “We need to take a lot of credit for the second half, I’m really pleased.”
Warrington, who remain in the top eight, had started to piece their season together of late but this felt like a major step backwards. They actually dominated possession early in the contest but came away with nothing to show for it – and Leeds ultimately made them pay.
By half-time the Rhinos were 12-0 ahead when tries from Parcell – who finished with a hat-trick – and Liam Sutcliffe put Leeds in control. Any suggestion of a Warrington fightback was quelled with Parcell’s second shortly after the break, and from there, Leeds began to cut loose.
There were four more tries – including the one which completed Parcell’s hat-trick late on. B ut when Burrow broke through to score Leeds’ seventh and final try, Stefan Ratchford lay crestfallen on the floor. It was a moment which succinctly summed up just how far apart these two teams are as the regular season rolls on.
Leeds Golding; Briscoe, Watkins, Sutcliffe, Hall; McGuire, Moon; Singleton, Parcell, Cuthbertson, Ferres, Ward, Jones-Buchanan. Interchange Burrow, Baldwinson, Delaney, Mullally.
Warrington Ratchford; Russell, Hughes, Atkins, Lineham; Brown, Gidley; Hill, Clark, Sims, Jullien, Westerman, Cooper.
Interchange Crosby, King, Patton, Philbin.
Referee J Child.
Northampton have done next to nothing the easy way all season so perhaps their circuitous route into next season’s Champions Cup should not come as a surprise. But they can take enormous credit for the resilience shown to cap an exhilarating victory over Stade Français thanks to Ahsee Tuala’s dramatic late try and Harry Mallinder’s nerveless conversion.
When Tuala went over, Northampton were down to 13 – the captain Tom Wood had been sent off for a stamp to the head of Djibril Camara that may well rule him out of England’s tour to Argentina – while Rory Hutchinson was in the sin-bin. Northampton, 16 points down at one pointin the first half, did not know when they were beaten. “I don’t think anybody can see Tom actually putting his foot on the opponent. It’s an unfortunate one,” said Northampton’s director of rugby, Jim Mallinder. “There’s certainly nothing deliberate in there but we’ll see what happens with the disciplinary.”
That Northampton were able to mount a comeback was thanks to the sustained excellence of Courtney Lawes, who finished the match battered and bruised, and George North. Warren Gatland will anxiously await a fitness bulletin, on the former especially. “Courtney was a little poorly this afternoon so when he’s not 100% and can put in a performance like that it’s impressive,” added Mallinder.
Considering it has been a season punctuated by deflating late defeats, this was a victory that undoubtedly went against the grain. More significantly for Jim Mallinder, it means a ninth straight season in Europe’s premier competition thanks to the icy veins of his 20-year-old son. “He’s been doing that in the back garden for a long time,” said Mallinder.
With the magnificent Will Genia pulling the strings, Stade Français were 10-0 up after seven minutes. A swashbuckling try from Waisea Nayacalevu came when Genia sparked a move from a scrum on the right that finished with his Fijian winger over under the posts. Jules Plisson converted and added a penalty and the pace of the match was unrelenting.
Stade had their second try after a quick tap caught Saints cold to put Jérémy Sinzelle over on the left and head first into the crowd – the majority of whom had already taken a disliking to a number of the decisions by the referee, John Lacey.
Saints registered another penalty through Mallinder but Stade appeared to be out of sight by half-time. Louis Picamoles knocked on near his own line and from the resulting scrum Genia fed Camara, who ghosted over. Mallinder then missed a shot at goal before better results with another after Plisson caught North with a high forearm that might have led to further punishment.
Saints were given a lifeline when the Stade hooker, Remi Bonfils, was shown a yellow card for a trip on Mallinder in full flow but after a kick to the corner, another knock-on, this time from Hartley, stopped Saints in their tracks. Stade could hold out for only a couple more minutes, however, Northampton eventually claiming some reward for chipping away and keeping hold of the ball as Ben Foden went over under the posts. Mallinder’s conversion brought Saints back to within six.
Camara then had two dashes down the left but Saints scrambled well to stay in Stade’s rearview mirror. With just over 50 minutes gone, Stade saw fit to introduce Rabah Slimani and Sergio Parisse – a late addition to the bench – such was Northampton’s ascendancy at the scrum and lineout but Rory Hutchinson’s yellow card again dented the home side. Wood then saw red but Lawes puffed out his cheeks and dragged Northampton back up the field before Mallinder put Tuala over in the corner and nailed the conversion from 45 metres.
The Stade Français director of rugby, Gonzalo Quesada, was unhappy with the Northampton crowd, who booed Camara in the aftermath of the Wood incident. “I don’t want to talk about the action but the reaction is disappointing because Camara needed stitches. It’s super tough because we won the Challenge Cup but we are not in the Champions Cup next season.”
Northampton Tuala; Foden, Tuitavake (Hutchinson 54), Burrell, North; Mallinder, Groom (Dickson, 68); A Waller (Ma’afu, 69), Hartley (Haywood, 69), Brookes (Denman, 61), Lawes, Day (Ratuniyarawa, 57), Harrison, Wood (capt), Picamoles (Gibson, 57). Tries Foden, Tuitavake Cons Mallinder 2 Pens Mallinder 3. Sin-bin Hutchinson 62. Sent off Wood 63.
Stade Français Camara (Steyn, 65); Nayacalevu, Doumayrou, Danty (Bosman, 19), Sinzelle; Plisson, Genia (Daguin 76); Zhvania (Slimani, 52), Bonfils, Emile, Alberts (De Giovanni, 61), Gabrillagues (capt), Burban (Parisse, 53), Lakafia, Ross.
Tries Nayacalevu, Sinzelle, Camara. Cons Plisson 2. Pen Plisson. Sin-bin Bonfils 42. Attendance 13,450 Referee John Lacey (Ire)
It is a common storyline in sport, and it is common in life, legend and literature. The brilliant youth; the effortless, vertiginous rise; the prosaic, enraging restrictions; the exile and fall.
And then – well, it depends on our hero. Icarus fell straight into the sea, but Danny Cipriani came again. As he prepares to step out at Twickenham for Wasps’ first tilt at the Premiership title since the final days of the Lawrence Dallaglio era in 2008, he is better than ever, more measured, more in tune with those around him, more of a fly-half.
“I probably understand the game a lot better now,” he says. “I feel like I’ve got a better brain for it as a fly-half.” The truth is, when he burst into Dallaglio’s great Wasps side as a teenager, he was less a fly-half than a wandering maverick, a player without portfolio. It was his misfortune, perhaps, to begin his rise just as Wasps’ dynasty was about to enter its decline, but he sparkled then as a concession to the unorthodox.
In his first season, which culminated in a second Heineken Cup win for that generation, in 2007, the No10 shirt was the long-held property of Alex King, that most consummate of fly-halfs, so Cipriani played most of the season as a brilliant counterattacking full-back. But even when he assumed King’s shirt after the latter’s departure the following season, he continued to burnish his reputation with brilliance in the outside channels. Wasps’ policy was to withdraw him from the frontline when they were defending, and when turnover ball was whipped wide there he was to exploit disjointed opponents with acceleration that was superior to most of the best wingers.
When Wasps won the last of their titles, in 2008, he was voted the players’ player of the season. He had won man of the match on his England debut too. He was 20 years old. “I just thought every year was going to be like that. But it’s been a long time since then.”
He did not play in the Premiership final that year because of the horrific ankle injury he suffered in the semi-final. And so the trouble began. Wasps’ form fell away as the team broke up; he angered team-mates with his reluctance to tackle; he infuriated the new England coach, one Martin Johnson, who was English rugby personified in a way Cipriani was not. The uncharitable accused him of thinking himself above his mortal team-mates. Perhaps a fairer assessment is that he was rebelling against the straitjacket culture of English rugby, by which he felt blissfully – or perhaps torturously – unrestrained.
So he left on what he describes as “a two-year gap year” with the Melbourne Rebels, where he befriended, among others, Kurtley Beale, now his team-mate, albeit missing from Saturday afternoon’s final because of injury. But the brilliance remained beset by the controversy, even if the boy might have been learning.
For he chose as his next stop Sale and a mentor in Steve Diamond, as earthy as Cipriani had been flamboyant. “My learning curve was really at Sale,” he acknowledges, “becoming a traditional fly-half but still learning how to manipulate defences.”
He played some of the best rugby of his career in the four years that followed, less the individual showman, more the master puppeteer. His defence improved, as did his goalkicking. On form alone he should have made England’s World Cup squad in 2015, but the dynamic had shifted. Owen Farrell and George Ford had emerged, steeped in the virtues of northern modesty that Cipriani was embracing too late.
It seems his England chances have passed now, not that he has given up hope. “If it happens, it happens. If it doesn’t, I can’t really control that. It’s not like they’re going too badly right now. Everyone still wants to play for England, don’t they – that’s the pinnacle of the game.” When his first club came calling last summer, Cipriani could not resist the move back home. Now armed with the wisdom lacking the first time he was there, he found himself among a new breed of attack-minded Wasps. If he forced himself into the Wasps team of the previous decade, this one has reached out to welcome him home. The fit is snug.
“Talent-wise, I would say this team is better, man for man, but it was the experience of the other one [that made them stand out]. We are hopefully going to see this team grow into an even greater team than the one that was before.”
If Cipriani is anything to go by, experience will only make this dazzling Wasps side better. The defeat by Leinster in the Champions Cup quarter-final, in which Cipriani himself suffered a rare dip in form, will qualify as one significant lesson, but they recovered to finish the season top of the table, the most prolific try-scorers the Premiership has ever known. There is something unusually stable about their policy of all-out attack, so often the preserve of the inconsistent or the desperate. They will no doubt turn it on again at Twickenham, led by a boy who once flew so high so fast, but now has settled at last among the flock.
Watford are closing in on their No1 managerial target after holding talks with the former Hull City head coach Marco Silva.
Silva, who has also been linked with a move to Porto and Crystal Palace, is understood to be close to agreeing a deal with the Vicarage Road club, who are looking for a swift replacement for the departed Walter Mazzarri.
The Portuguese coach, who won six of 18 league games in his 139-day spell in charge of Hull, will be joined by his assistant head coach João Pedro Sousa, his first-team coach Goncalo Pedro and his goalkeeping coach Hugo Oliveira at Watford if a deal can be struck.
Silva, who left Hull following their relegation from the Premier League, said: “Everyone knows when you have the chance to work in the Premier League, you don’t want to work in Championship. It’s normal.”
Watford made Silva their preferred choice to replace Mazzarri, whom they sacked earlier this month after a disappointing 17th-place finish. However, they had also sounded out Roger Schmidt if Silva decided on a return to his homeland with Porto.
Schmidt won the Austrian double with Red Bull Salzburg in 2014 before moving to Bayer Leverkusen, guiding them to fourth- and third-placed finishes and established them in the Champions League. The German, however, was dismissed by Leverkusen in March but has made it clear he would like to manage in England. The 50-year-old, who speaks fluent English, could now be of interest to Palace should they fail to tempt Sean Dyche to Selhurst Park.
Palace, buoyed by Wilfried Zaha’s decision to sign a new five-year contract this week, are prepared to offer Burnley a seven-figure compensation package to lure the 45-year-old, who is believed to be receptive to a new challenge. Burnley have made it clear they are determined to hold on to Dyche. The former England manager Roy Hodgson, a former Palace youth-team player, is also interested in the position vacated by Sam Allardyce this week.
This week I watched the Chinese Super League so you don’t have to, taking in the full, slightly wild 90 minutes of the champions Guangzhou Evergrande versus last year’s runners-up Jiangsu Suning, the most recent of the CSL fixtures being shown in dribs and drabs by Sky Sports.
There was a vague point to all this beyond simple recreation. The lure of the Chinese Super League seems to lurk behind every story, every noise off, presented as a kind of gilded career-dustbin for every ageing star with a hungry agent to feed. Diego Costa and Radamel Falcao have been linked with moves this summer. Only this week Wayne Rooney has been implored not to go, reminded that he “still has so much to give”, like a man being talked down from the 27th-floor windowledge of a seven-star tower hotel.
But then China has always been an object of confused fascination from outside its borders. Most commonly this comes out as alarm at China’s sheer scale, its furious ambition, captured best in sport at the opening of the Beijing Olympics, those massed ceremonial drummers hammering out their terrifyingly synchronised rhythms like footsoldiers of an advancing robot army, here to batter your skull to pieces with the sharp end of a mass-produced, low-cost computer circuit board.
There is something of this in the way the CSL has been portrayed from afar. And yes, as a footballing “product”, even this summit meeting of Guangzhou and Jiangsu was predictably middling. But there was also something oddly captivating about the whole occasion from the moment the players came running out across a huge red soaking Styx-like running track at the Tianhe Stadium on a steaming night where every surface seemed to be dripping and oozing.
The Tianhe itself is huge, its craning stands packed out with genuinely excited-looking locals. Albeit as the teams lined up for a pre-match national anthem there was a reminder of what this really is, an expression of nationalism and political will as much as the more familiarly nihilistic European cash circus.
There was dear old Ramires lining up for Jiangsu and the gaucho Luiz Felipe Scolari swaggering about on the touchline looking as though he’s about to stride across and accuse you of having sworn in front of his horse. The CSL is a ghosts-of-Chelsea-past kind of place generally, with an AVB there, an Oscar here, tracing it a bit like having a weird dream about Chelsea 2008-2013 after 17 shots of rice wine and six caipirinhas.
Early on there were shrill cheers from the crowd at each slide tackle or overhead kick. Beyond this Chinese football is intense, a game full of collisions, lunges, bruised toes, barked shins. It is also a two-speed affair. At times the Brazilians seemed to be playing a kind of mini-game among themselves while everyone else got on with kicking each other in the spaces in between.
Ten minutes in Alan, once of Red Bull Salzburg, scored the opener with a header from a corner, to sightly empty cheers. And for a while everything did seem to go a little stodgy and slow, the cracks poking through, the sense of a Big Football League that exists for no other reason than to be a Big Football League because a Big Football League is a thing to be.
Which is all very well but China is at least trying to do something else. The league here does have a purpose beyond simply a commercial exercise. China’s president, Xi Jinping, has announced that the intention is for China to win the World Cup within the next 30 years. The new, possibly game-changing tax on buying overseas players speaks to this, designed to prevent the wealthy old-lag effect in favour of development.
For each overseas transfer an equal sum will have to be paid into a fund designed to breed local young players. This has been chuckled at in England as something weird and wonderful. In fact, it’s a brilliant idea. Why on earth, in a country where green space and basic facilities are so poorly provided, don’t we have something like that? China, land of rising economic might – and also of deeply useful ideas designed to promote local infrastructure.
Back in Tianhe Alan got the second for Guangzhou, a nice little flick and a neat finish cheered wildly by a stand full of young fans with replica shirts, floppy hair and thick glasses, a kind of indie-chic terrace look, as though the Chinese champions were being cheered on by 40,000 sensitive San Francisco singer-songwriters of the 1990s.
Towards the end all hell broke loose as the Colombian Roger Martínez, who looks like a nice friendly tubby teddy bear, was involved in yet another shin-raking flare-up and pretty much everyone present lost their mind, players shoving and yelling and bickering all over the place, the referee taking three minutes to get round to sending someone off.
“Believe in Canton”, a huge pitch-side sign urged through all this. But can we really believe in Chinese football? Sheffield United or Bolton would win this league as it is now. If you scooped up all the best Brazilians in the CLS you’d probably have one pretty decent Ukrainian Europa League team.
The lack of an ingrained “football culture” of clubs and leagues is often flagged up rather scornfully as a fatal flaw among all this ambition. But this is in part a legacy of the old politics, with its prohibition on formal gatherings and clubs. For now the machine continues to drive itself on. The fact is Rooney, Costa and John Terry are only part of the story in a country where the state is ploughing billions into a vast and terrifying nationwide football academy and schools programme.
This is in isolation arguably the greatest social-sporting experiment ever carried out and a path that could frankly lead anywhere, even from the chaotic, fun but low spec fare on show on a hot night in Guangzhou. It will, at the very least, be fascinating to watch, and something to be learned from rather than scorned.
As General Charles de Gaulle pointed out, China is indeed a very large country, and one that contains many Chinese. It doesn’t want the world. But it does want the World Cup. There is vast investment here, a supernumerary population and wildly nationalistic good husbandry. Who knows, they might just get a little closer than you think.
With Essex top of the table, there is a chirp about Chelmsford right now, and it only became louder when Jamie Porter and Matt Quinn, destroyers of Hampshire last time out, reduced Surrey to 31 for five. But, like Lancashire, Warwickshire and Middlesex before them, Essex met Kumar Sangakkara. They were undone by something old and something new.
There was a 61st first-class century for Sangakkara and almost a first for Sam Curran, 21 years his junior. Sangakkara’s was his third in eight days, the biggest and, given the circumstances, the best of five in five first-class innings (the first man to do so for Surrey and the equal of a championship record); only CB Fry, Mike Procter and Don Bradman have scored six on the spin. When he retires at summer’s end he will leave as big a hole in Surrey’s batting lineup as he will in the game at large: cherish him.
He reached his ton with another perfect straight drive, his 13th four from his 174th ball. All the hallmarks of last week’s Lord’s masterpiece were on show here – the stroked pull, the cover drive on one knee, the achingly elegant cuts. There was one half-chance, to reach 50, as a sharp edge off Wagner – whom he pumped down the ground twice late in the day – was dropped high to first slip’s left.
Fortunately we have plenty longer watching Curran, and will not wait ages to see him make it beyond the nineties. Surrey picked a debutant, the offspinner Amar Virdi, because Gareth Batty has injured a toe.
He is so fresh that cricinfo were unaware of his birthdate (18 July 1998, to make you feel ancient), and yet he’s only a month older than Curran.
Curran was watchful early, and was hit on the hand by Porter before lunch; as a result, he had to endure some leg theory from Wagner. Having survived that, he cashed in, pulling and swatting down the ground for six and cutting fiercely. Eventually, he danced down to Simon Harmer and missed. James Foster, back in the side, did the rest.
The stand was worth 191, a mighty effort after Surrey’s start. Quinn did for the left-handers, with Mark Stoneman edging to second slip, captain Rory Burns brilliantly taken at gully, and Scott Borthwick caught behind, then Porter dealt with the righties: Dom Sibley was bowled by a beauty and Ben Foakes played on pulling.
They enjoyed less success with the second new ball as Stuart Meaker (43no) shared 95 with Sangakkara – who finished the day unbeaten on 177. Even batting this beautifully, you could forgive Essex for being sick of the sight of him.
When Howden Ganley arrived for his first day at work with Bruce McLaren, as the team’s third employee, he found a concrete prefab full of earthmoving equipment on a dirt floor. Humble beginnings for a team that would become one of the longest serving and most successful in Formula One, driven not only by the vision and ambition of its founder but also by McLaren’s ability to inspire those around him.
As Ganley notes: “If Bruce had said down tools and march into the Sahara, we would have done it without a question.” McLaren left a remarkable legacy for his team who, now more than ever, need the inspiration he engendered in that prefab in New Malden.
McLaren was killed aged 32 in an accident at testing at Goodwood in 1970, four years after establishing his team. They enjoyed success in that period, including McLaren’s first victory in a car he had designed and built himself, at Spa in 1968, and dominance in Can-Am.
They are successes that, alongside Ganley’s recollections of his friend, feature in the new documentary film, McLaren, which is released on Monday. It tells his story, from overcoming the Perthes disease that left him with one leg shorter than the other, through his racing career and the team he founded.
It is a fascinating tale because of the sense of McLaren’s character that it evokes, as his daughter Amanda remembers. “He was a racer,” she says. “Dad loved designing, building and driving the cars. As long as they had four wheels he enjoyed it.”
The team battled through the death of their leader, carried on as he would have wanted them to do and it paid off. Eight F1 constructors’ championships and 12 drivers’ titles followed, with the team becoming a fixture at the front end of the grid. Recently, though, having partnered Honda for the past three years, they have slipped to the back of the field.
This season they are the only team yet to score a point and Fernando Alonso is so disenchanted he has forsaken Monaco for the Indianapolis 500. So protracted has this slump been questions are being asked about the strength of McLaren’s legacy.
It is a charge taken seriously by the team’s executive director, Zak Brown, who admits in Monaco: “It is painful to watch and it is painful to be part of. But I would not have joined if I did not think we could get back to our winning ways. I chose this and I am very happy with my decision and absolutely confident Bruce’s legacy will be continued.”
Brown took over from Ron Dennis at the end of last year but while he admires his predecessor’s success – the Ron Dennis era, he calls it – he believes McLaren need a new approach. One focused less on individuals and more on the collective. “The next era is the McLaren era,” he says. “In our highest profile we are an F1 team but moving forward we are a bigger entity than any one individual piece and that’s where it takes a team effort.
“I have got no desire to create a Zak Brown era. There are a lot of characters that go into making up F1 teams and I would like to be one of the actors in the movie but I don’t need to be the headline. It’s our job to get McLaren back to being one of the dynasty teams that we were – not that long ago. We are perfectly capable of being so in the future, we just have to get more power behind us, we have everything else.”
Changes are already taking effect as Jenson Button, back in the car to replace Alonso, observed. “It’s different,” he says. “You can’t take anything away from Ron, who achieved so much for his team. But then times do change and you’ve got to make sure that you change with the times.”
Amanda has no doubts the team’s travails will only be a small chapter in the story her father began in the 1960s. “The fact that McLaren is one of only two F1 teams on the grid that were there in the 60s when he was racing says his legacy is very safe,” she says. “There is a passion about working for McLaren. There is something about the team, the environment, the people. It all comes together.”
But there will be no quick fix and Brown warns against “high expectations on track any time soon this year”. Yet high expectations are exactly what Bruce harboured and the team he created badly needs that belief again.
Their first task is points at Monaco. It is their best chance to score this season, with the circuit negating the deficit of the Honda power unit. Button, who did well in practice in a car he had never driven, is determined to enjoy it. “I think you’ve just got to take every day as it comes and enjoy life as much as you can,” he said. “That’s why I’m back here in Monaco to enjoy myself for this weekend. Racing at the Monaco Grand Prix is that special moment.”
Making it special will be more dependent on Saturday’s qualifying than usual. Passing, always hard in Monte Carlo, will be extremely difficult this year with wider cars. Max Verstappen pointed out that simply staying in the middle of the road would be enough to prevent any moves, making Saturday afternoon crucial.
For Mercedes, however, the morning practice session will also be vital. Lewis Hamilton was quickest in first practice on Thursday but the team’s setup changes proved unhelpful in the second and they were off the pace of Ferrari. Nailing it again, to ensure their tyres are working, is job one before considering front-row slots.
The Double is on for Antonio Conte and it is clear Chelsea must be considered favourites, given the season they have had. Arsène Wenger is unconcerned. He knows the underdog can have its day and he referenced the 2005 FA Cup final, when his Arsenal team “had no players available” but somehow beat Manchester United. It could be Diego Costa’s last game in Chelsea colours but probably will not be Wenger’s last at Arsenal. David Hytner
Kick-off Saturday 5.30pm
Venue Wembley Stadium
Head-to-head Arsenal 73 Chelsea 62 Draws 54
Live BBC1, BT Sport 2
Referee Anthony Taylor
This season G40, Y155, R4, 3.98 cards per game (all competitions)
Odds H 7-2 A 4-5 D 11-4
Subs from Cech, Martínez, Jenkinson, Debuchy, Coquelin, Elneny, Walcott, Sanogo, Iwobi, Giroud, Pérez, Gibbs, Mustafi
Doubtful Gibbs (thigh), Mustafi (concussion)
Injured Cazorla (achilles, Aug), Gabriel (knee, Aug), Reine-Adélaïde (ankle, Aug)
Suspended Koscielny (first of three)
Form LWWWWW (all competitions)
Discipline Y92 R5 (all competitions)
Leading scorer Sánchez 29 (all competitions)
Subs from Eduardo, Begovic, Zouma, Terry, Aina, Fàbregas, Kenedy, Aké, Musonda, Willian, Loftus-Cheek, Batshuayi, Chalobah
Doubtful Loftus-Cheek (match fitness)
Injured None
Suspended None
Form WWWWWW (all competitions)
Discipline Y81 R2 (all competitions)
Leading scorer Costa 21 (all competitions)
Ben Stokes will be fit to play against South Africa in the second ODI in Southampton on Saturday. It is an indication of Stokes’ status that a gaggle of newshounds kept a constant eye on him throughout a long training session, in which he did little bowling. At one point Stokes was batting right-handed and missing the ball on purpose in order to give Jos Buttler some wicketkeeping practice and we were all dutifully transfixed.
Stokes is a totemic figure and England want him involved whenever possible. On Thursday night he had a scan which did not reveal any serious damage. On Friday morning with his knee carefully bandaged he spent a long time batting. Then we were informed he was fit, able to bowl and playing. So England have resisted the temptation to wrap him in cotton wool even though the Champions Trophy is just around the corner. The medics must be confident that he is fine and there is no doubt Stokes is eager for the fray.
Faf du Plessis, a recent team-mate of Stokes in the IPL, wished him well saying how much he had enjoyed playing alongside him and then complimented him with the Kallis comparison. “Like Jacques, he makes balancing a side so much easier: a sixth bowler is possible and he extends the batting lineup.”
Liam Plunkett, whose first ODI for England was in 2005, was speaking before the news of Stokes’ fitness filtered through and he acknowledged they would miss him if he was unavailable “because he can win the match with the bat, the ball or in the field”. But he was quick to add: “We won’t be moping around if he can’t play. Back in the day that might have been the case if Fred [Andrew Flintoff] or KP [Kevin Pietersen] was missing. Now we have confidence in everyone.”
England will expect South Africa to be more combative. Du Plessis spoke of “cobwebs” and “silly mistakes” at Headingley and of “peaking at the right time”. They are top of the ODI rankings for a reason. Yet they lost easily – by 72 runs – at Headingley and after the game Moeen Ali offered a more pragmatic reason why he always likes to have Stokes in the side. Moeen missed the matches against Ireland and typically he had no complaints about that. In those two games England played one specialist spinner, Adil Rashid, because as Moeen explained, “He’s got far more variations. Having Stokes back helps me get into the side.”
Moeen batted so well at No7 at Headingley there was no prospect of him missing out on Saturday even if Stokes had been absent. Moeen is a modest man. “I’m not really a six hitter like some of the others,” he said, despite the fact he had hit five in his unbeaten 72. He bowled pretty well too. It is hard to imagine Eoin Morgan wanting to go into any game in the Champions Trophy without Moeen; he is a mature, calming influence.
Likewise the captain is reluctant to take the field without Plunkett, who has had an extraordinary career. His first ODI was in Lahore when he came on as a “substitute” for Pietersen when England bowled (I had forgotten that preposterous innovation, which fortunately did not last very long). That game took place over 11 years ago, which explains Plunkett’s earlier references to Flintoff and Pietersen. He has really been sure of his place in the best side only in the past 12 months. Plunkett did not play his 50th ODI until the match against Ireland at Bristol this month. But he has played in 18 of England’s past 22 games.
So he has been impressively persistent and very willing. He reckons his longest period out of the team was about five years. On one occasion he was happy to fly from St Kitts to Perth for a game. He does not blow his own trumpet readily but said: “I feel like I deserve to be in the side now. I’ve performed home and away for the last year or so.”
So he is bound to join Moeen and Stokes in the team at the Ageas Bowl when it is anticipated England will field an unchanged side. The pitch looks dry, brown and good for batting. It will be a surprise if the side batting first do not exceed 300.
Thirty years ago next month a 16-year-old apprentice called Frankie Dettori rode his first winner at this breathtaking downland track and, if Ascot is the racecourse most readily associated with his long career, Goodwood cannot be far behind. Dettori has long since mastered its contours and quirks and he was impeccable again aboard Khalidi on Friday as the colt took the Cocked Hat Stakes in course-record time.
Monarchs Glen, a stable companion of Khalidi at the John Gosden yard, flew out of the stalls and raced freely through the first mile, extending his lead to about 10 lengths at one stage. He started to come back to the field with a quarter of a mile to run, however, and Khalidi was soon in command, going on to cross the line five lengths in front of Fierce Impact.
The last two winners of this race have gone on to run in the Derby, including Storm The Stars, who made the frame at Epsom two years ago. Khalidi is not up to that standard and is likely to run next in the King Edward VII Stakes at Royal Ascot but Dettori was satisfied with the compliment that the win paid to Permian, the Dante Stakes winner, and by extension Cracksman, Dettori’s mount in the Classic next weekend.
“We don’t have many races here over a mile and three [furlongs],” Dettori said. “There’s only two a year, so on fast ground with the wind behind and a decent pace, I’m not surprised [about the record time].
“But it’s good, it all ties up with the Dante winner [who beat Khalidi at Newmarket earlier in the season] and the form looks solid. You can make a case for about 10 [in the Derby]. It’s whatever stays and whatever gets the best run because on ratings they’re much of a muchness.
“[Monarchs Glen] has got a lot of talent and no one was going to take me there so I had to make the move. At the furlong pole I knew he was done but he’s the sort of horse that, if you give him too much rope, he could go.”
Cracksman, who missed his intended prep run for Epsom in the Dante Stakes due to soft ground, remains joint-favourite for the Derby at a best price of 9-2, alongside Aidan O’Brien’s Cliffs Of Moher, the Dee Stakes winner.
William Buick will be in the weighing room alongside Dettori at Epsom next week after he persuaded the British Horseracing Authority’s disciplinary committee to reduce a recent ban for careless riding, imposed by the stewards at York, from five days to four.
The difference is crucial because Buick can apply to have a four-day ban deferred on days when there is Group One racing in Britain, freeing him to ride in both the Oaks and Coronation Cup next Friday and the Derby the following afternoon.
He is expected to ride Jack Hobbs, the 2015 Irish Derby winner, in the Coronation Cup while Godolphin, his main employer, could have as many as five runners in the Derby and Buick is almost certain to pick up a useful ride.
Aidan O’Brien took both the 1,000 Guineas and 2,000 Guineas at Newmarket with Winter and Churchill and they are odds-on to follow up in the Irish equivalents this weekend, but his team for the high-summer showpieces suffered a significant setback on Friday when Minding, the winner of seven Group One events in all, was ruled out by injury until at least the autumn.
Minding had been expected to start at long odds-on for the Tattersalls Gold Cup at The Curragh on Sunday.
In her absence Ryan Moore will switch to ride Deauville, a recent winner at Chester’s May meeting, while O’Brien is also represented by Johannes Vermeer and Somehow in a final field of eight runners.
Cartmel 2.15 Minotaur 2.45 Restraint Of Trade 3.20 Go West Young Man 3.55 Space Ship 4.30 Dursey Sound 5.05 Cousin Oscar 5.35 Jester Jet (nb)
Chester 1.55 Musical Terms 2.30 Rose Berry 3.05 Fastnet Tempest 3.40 Sands Chorus 4.15 Yafta 4.50 Emperor Napoleon 5.20 Okool
Ffos Las 6.00 Captain George 6.30 Looks Like Power 7.00 Market Road 7.30 Fortified Bay 8.00 Heist 8.30 Theatre Stage 9.00 Mac T
Goodwood 2.00 Abdon 2.35 Billesdon Brook 3.10 Horroob 3.45 Second Step 4.20 Batts Rock 4.55 Pettochside 5.25 Music Lesson
Haydock 2.20 Parliamentarian 2.55 Rusumaat 3.30 Harry Angel 4.05 Kachy 4.35 Gravity Flow 5.10 Janszoon 5.40 Tai Sing Ye
Salisbury 5.45 Bodybuilder 6.15 Indian Affair 6.45 Gloriux 7.15 Going Up 7.45 Magic Beans 8.15 Gunmaker
York 2.10 Golden Stunner 2.40 Dal Harraild 3.15 Sean O’Casey (nap) 3.50 Out Do 4.25 Zaman 5.00 Miss Sheridan 5.30 Madroos
A minute’s silence will be held before the FA Cup final at Wembley and the Premiership final at Twickenham on Saturday in memory of the victims of the Manchester terror attack, with spectators at both showpiece occasions asked to arrive early in order to clear heightened security measures.
The Football Association and the Rugby Football Union have issued statements confirming remembrance plans for the 22 people who died and those injured in Monday’s bombing at the Manchester Arena, while also outlining the steps they are taking to ensure the safety of those attending their respective events.
It comes as organisers of the Great Manchester Run confirmed Sunday’s 10km event will take place despite the devastation caused by Monday’s blast and Uefa announced that next week’s Champions League final between Juventus and Real Madrid at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff will be played under a closed roof for safety and security reasons.
“All supporters attending the upcoming matches at Wembley Stadium – the FA Cup final as well as the League Two and Championship play-off finals – are advised to arrive as early as possible to avoid queues and to support commemorations of the tragic events in Manchester,” read an FA statement. “Fans can be assured that all appropriate security measures are in place for the upcoming matches, which includes thorough searches upon entrance to Wembley. We strongly advise that all supporters arrive no later than one hour prior to kick-off and we encourage spectators to not bring any bags or unnecessary items with them.
“In addition to tributes being paid at Saturday’s FA Cup final, [which include commemorative wreaths being laid by the Duke of Cambridge and the FA chairman, Greg Clarke] all four teams and match officials taking part in the play-off finals on Sunday and Monday will wear black armbands and observe a period of silence prior to kick-off.”
An RFU statement read: “Fans can be assured that the safety of anyone visiting Twickenham Stadium is a huge priority for us. We have been operating enhanced security measures for some time and these will continue for all matches this weekend. All supporters attending the Premiership final on Saturday, or the Old Mutual Wealth Cup or any of the County Championship finals on Sunday, are advised to allow extra time to access the stadium and avoid bringing bags where possible.”
There will also be heightened security at Bramall Lane on Saturday evening before Kell Brook’s world title fight against Errol Spence Jr, with spectators told “no bags of any sort, including handbags, will be permitted”.
More than 35,000 runners attended last year’s Great Manchester Run, and with a higher number expected this year given there will also be a half-marathon it was expected the event would be postponed or cancelled following the government’s decision to raise the national terror threat level to critical. It goes ahead, however.
“Manchester is a truly resilient city and we look forward to successfully hosting these great sporting events,” said the city councillor Luthfur Rahman.
About 170,000 people are expected to be in Cardiff for the Champions League final next Saturday. Two days earlier the Millennium Stadium, which is to be rebranded the National Stadium of Wales for the contest, will also host the Women’s Champions League final, between Lyon and Paris Saint-Germain. The venue’s roof will be closed for that match, too.
Nairo Quintana won back the pink jersey from Tom Dumoulin, beating the Dutch rider by more than a minute in the Dolomites to ensure they carried their rivalry into the final two stages of the Giro d’Italia. Nearly 10 minutes up the road Mikel Landa, Team Sky’s Spanish climber, stormed away from his fellow breakaway riders on the final ascent to win an absorbing 191km stage at Piancavallo.
Quintana, the 2014 Giro winner, leads the overall standings by 38 seconds but with an individual time trial to come on the final day, which strongly favours Dumoulin’s talents, the Colombian will almost certainly need to increase his advantage in Saturday’s penultimate stage. Italy’s Vincenzo Nibali, the Giro winner in 2013 and 2016, remains third, 43sec from the lead, with the French rider Thibaut Pinot a further 10sec behind.
An early breakaway was allowed to go nearly 10 minutes clear by the main contenders. A series of attacks by Luis León Sánchez and Rui Costa splintered the lead group as they began the long climb to the finish but it was Landa’s drive 10km from home which proved decisive.
The Team Sky rider had come close to stage wins on two occasions already on this tour, including Thursday’s stage 18 when Tejay van Garderen beat Landa in a dash to the line. This time Landa left nothing to chance, chipping out a lead over Costa to claim the stage by 1 minute and 49 seconds from Costa, with French rider Pierre Rolland third.
With the end of a long tour in sight, frustrations boiled over in the pack in the closing stages when Trek-Segafredo’s Eugenio Alafaci was cut up by Rory Sutherland. Enraged, Alafaci threw his bidon at the Movistar rider’s back. Sutherland immediately turned around and apologised but Alafaci could yet face punishment for the incident.
Behind them raged the battle for the pink jersey, stoked by Dumoulin’s criticism on Thursday of his rivals’ tactics and Nibali’s response that the leader was getting “cocky”. On the final descent Movistar increased the pace, catching Dumoulin off guard, and when he tried to keep pace as the road steepened again he began to slide away from the main group.
Dumoulin had only one Sunweb team-mate, Simon Geschke, to tow, and when Geschke blew out with 5km to go Dumoulin appeared in danger of losing major time. He managed to remain in relative contact and although Quintana took the lead, the advantage remains with Dumoulin. The question now facing the 28-year-old is whether he can keep in touch on Sunday’s mountain stage following another exhausting day in the saddle.
“I made a rookie mistake in the beginning to sit at the back of the bunch when we went into the downhill,” Dumoulin said after the race. “With my bad legs [after Thursday’s tough stage] I needed to work hard to come back and that was unnecessary. I tried to limit my losses and I did that really well. Luckily my team were really strong today, they really saved me, otherwise it would have been a really bad day.”
England sealed top spot in Group A as they beat hosts South Korea 1-0 in the Under-20 World Cup in Suwon.
Kieran Dowell’s second-half goal ensured England reached the second round with South Korea also qualifying as the group runners-up.
Everton’s Dowell swept in 11 minutes after the break from Jonjoe Kenny’s cross to win it for Paul Simpson’s side. Dowell’s Everton team-mate Ademola Lookman hit the post after 72 minutes as the Young Lions held on for victory.
England had earlier beaten Argentina and drawn with Guinea after an unfortunate own goal by Chelsea’s Fikayo Tomori.
England will play their last-16 game on Wednesday and Simpson told thefa.com: “We came here to qualify, we’ve achieved that going through top of the group, but we’ll keep our feet on the ground, because we know it means nothing going into the last-16. Chances are we will be playing a tough side and so we know we’ll have to keep improving.
“The most pleasing thing is that we’ve shown we have an excellent squad of players, who have a good spirit amongst them and everybody wants to be involved. For us to go further we are going to need the full squad of 21 to stick together and hopefully that will be the case.”
Dowell added: “It was a great result for us. There was a big crowd here, all cheering for the Koreans so it was good to withstand that pressure and then get the goal in the second half.
“They’re a good side, their defenders are big and strong and were tough to break down, but we managed it in the end. We’ve had three different types of competitors from different continents in the group, so they were all different challengers, but we’ve come through it really well.”
England Freddie Woodman (Newcastle); Jonjoe Kenny (Everton), Dael Fry (Middlesbrough), Fikayo Tomori (Chelsea), Kyle Walker-Peters (Tottenham ); Ovie Ejaria (Liverpool), Joshua Onomah (Tottenham); Kieran Dowell (Everton), Ainsley Maitland-Niles (capt; Arsenal; Dominic Solanke, Chelsea, 28), Ademola Lookman (Everton; Seyi Ojo, Liverpool, 85); Dominic Calvert-Lewin (Everton)
The good news is Andy Murray, still officially the best player in the world, is not wallowing in a slough of despond on the eve of the French Open. The not so good news is the 2016 finalist, coughing between protestations to the contrary, could probably be in better shape, having cut back on his preparation because of a minor illness that required antibiotics.
Murray opens his campaign on Sunday against the Russian world No85 Andrey Kuznetsov – whom he has beaten handily twice – and insisted after the draw on Friday: “Sunday afternoon was when I started to feel a bit sick. It was Monday/Tuesday I didn’t feel great but I still practised a bit on Tuesday. I feel much better now. I’ve got a cough but I was a bit sick for a couple of days.”
True but he also has endured shingles, a cold and an elbow injury since a downbeat early exit from the Australian Open in January, when the mantle of being No1 in the world looked to have slowed his verve. “It’s been frustrating,” he admitted about the interruption to his season, “because it’s happened for the third time this year.”
Nevertheless, bright-eyed and upbeat, he batted away all negativity. “To be honest, it should happen more [often], considering the amount we travel and how long the season [lasts]. I have been pretty lucky with that the last couple of years. I have not had too many bad illnesses. Maybe they have just come in a small space of time. I will be all good when the tournament starts.”
Novak Djokovic, who beat Murray in last year’s final and then slid inelegantly into a slow funk to surrender his world No1 ranking, arrives on an upward curve, with a new coach, Andre Agassi, by his side – for the time being at least. Djokovic – who roared back to his best in Rome before the most exciting new talent in the game, Alexander Zverev, blew him off the court in Sunday’s final – begins his defence against the Spaniard Marcel Granollers.
Djokovic and Agassi spent hours on Thursday evening discussing where their partnership might go but the player sounded as if he needed a life guide as much as a tennis coach. “Of course we’re both hoping this can bring success on the court,” he said, “but it’s an opportunity for us to really grow and evolve, first of all as human beings and as tennis players.”
He said long phone conversations in Madrid and Rome “allowed both of us to get to know each other and for him especially, to get closer to my thinking and my mindset about tennis, about life in general. Even though [Thursday] was the first day [practising together], it felt like we knew each other for a very long time. We clicked and connected very fast. That’s one of the things I felt I needed: new inspiration, someone [who] knows exactly what I’m going through on the court, off the court.”
Britain’s other representatives in the main draw are Kyle Edmund, who plays the Portuguese Gastão Elias, Dan Evans, who might struggle to reproduce the heroics on clay that he showed on the hard court of Flushing Meadows in a competitive four-setter against Tommy Robredo in 2013, and Aljaz Bedene, who has a good chance against the American, Ryan Harrison.
The clear tournament favourite, Rafael Nadal, reaching for his 10th title here, is heading for a semi-final against Djokovic but starts with a tricky match against Benoît Paire.
Of all the ambitions that Katarina Johnson-Thompson has for her first heptathlon since her Rio Olympics finished in howls of pain and frustration, the simplest is also the biggest. She wants to fall in love with her sport again.
And she hopes that Götzis, the sleepy, scenic Austrian town where she smashed her personal best in 2014 before a series of injuries rammed her career off track, might just be the place to rediscover it.
“I don’t know if I am capable of a PB but I just want to put it together this weekend because it has been a tough couple of years,” she said, looking relaxed as she reclined on a bench at Stadion Mösle. “I just want to be here and be happy – and just try to fall in love with it again.”
The bar, for now at least, is set low. “I just want to get through it without any disasters. It has been a long time since I got through one. But I still love this place and it has got a place in my heart.”
The 24-year-old appears in fantastic shape, having rebooted her life by moving to Montpellier in France to join a new coaching team in December. Since then she has ripped up her approach to almost every event and started from scratch again. But she knows that this weekend’s prestigious HypoMeeting, where she will face the Olympic champion Nafissatou Thiam, provides the sternest test yet to KJT 2.0.
“I have changed a lot,” she said. “My high jump run-up, my long jump run-up, different shot put technique, completely different 800m training and way to approach it. So I have to compete but also try to change and adapt.”
But after a bone growth in her right knee blighted preparations for the 2015 world championships, and a groin problem did the same for the Olympics, she felt as if she had no choice. “My coaches have completely stripped things down. It is quite scary and does feel like a complete rebuild but I know I needed to change something.”
Johnson-Thompson is particularly pleased with the improvement in the shot put, so long her weakest link, but says the major difference is that she is no longer suffers with a constant torture of injuries, pangs and niggles. “What I’ve been pleased with is just being able to train week in and week out, almost every day, in the seven events,” she said.
Yet she concedes that she has struggled at times in France, both with the language and with being so far from her mum. “It is not easy. It is easy in that it is a nice culture, relaxed and chilled out, but it is hard for me to go over there and change everything.”
However, she feels that it has made her stronger as a person and an athlete. “I feel more independent too,” she said. “Before, my mum would book all my appointments, if I wanted to get my nails done I’d be like: ‘Mum, can you talk on the phone to this person’ – it was that bad. So I feel as like I’m growing up.”
Things have not gone entirely smoothly, however. She missed her flight from Montpellier to Paris Charles de Gaulle on Thursday because she set her alarm for 5am not 4.30am as she was supposed to and had to fly to Paris Orly instead and dash to get a shuttle bus to make the connecting flight to Austria. “It was drama but I’m OK,” she said, smiling.
She also knows that new routine has the approval of Thiam, who goes into this weekend as favourite. “Last year I changed things because in some events it wasn’t going well,” said the Belgian. “You sometimes have to take risks to grow and to take a step forward.” Johnson-Thompson, for one, will hope that those words prove prophetic.
Petra Kvitova runs strong, lean and recently scarred fingers through her hair, a smile never far from her lips. She has rarely looked so unencumbered by expectation.
As a prodigy, then a champion, she has lived with the weight of her talent but, six years after leaving Wimbledon with the first of her two singles titles there, and just five and a half months since surviving a horrific knife attack in her home in Prostejov, the 27-year-old Czech is basking in the Parisian sun as if reborn.
This week she steps back on to a tennis court in the glare of the French Open, where her best finish has been the semi-finals five years ago, but that hardly seems relevant.
She is still wary, and walks with a guarded eye now in public. Her attacker raked a knife across the fingers of her left hand, the one she uses for her job, and only three hours and 45 minutes of surgery the next day saved her from losing her career. Kvitova cannot discuss the attack but she said after confirming her place in the draw: “I did miss definitely the court, I did miss the fight. Now I can just enjoy everything, even the beautiful weather outside. Sometimes I just stand outside and see the sun and say: ‘Oh, it’s beautiful.’ I see different kind of things than before.”
With a protected ranking and seeded No15, she plays the world No85 Julia Boserup, a tall, 25-year-old Californian with a modest record over nine years. She missed a year and a half from 2012 with foot stress fractures. Still, Boserup might as well be Serena Williams, because Kvitova is charting new waters.
“It wasn’t easy,” she said of her ordeal. “My hand, it’s still not 100% ready, so we will see how everything goes, but I’m happy that I am able to play again. I had this hand in a splint for two months and, even then, I was practising every day, always putting the splint away and trying to make the scar softer.”
She tried working it two days after surgery, nevertheless, and had to contain her frustration over six months, stepping back on to the practice court only this month, in Monte Carlo, where she now lives. The damage has been as much psychological as physical, but she seems admirably suited to coping with both.
“I’m happy that I didn’t have to change any technique, and everything seems OK. Of course, the hand doesn’t have that power and the strength yet, but I’m working on it. Hopefully one day everything will be perfect. But we never know still. I’m just happy that when I’m playing I don’t have pain in my hand. I didn’t test it in a match, of course. Maybe it will be different when the nerves come and I’m gonna be tight.
“Not many people believed that I could play tennis again, so I actually already won my biggest fight. I’m happy. I like challenges. I see life a little bit from the different angle. I don’t really have nightmares. From the beginning I was feeling really weird when I went in the city or somewhere. I was always staring at guys, looking to see if there are any strangers there. But with the time, it’s better.”
She revealed she had thought about making her comeback at Wimbledon, the scene of her biggest triumphs. “Then, when the things were even better, I was, like: ‘Wow, the French Open is one month before. It will be great to play there.’” She sounded just like the player who charmed Wimbledon in 2011.
There has been palpable joy in the locker room, too, upon Kvitova’s return, as she was happy to relate. “Everybody is kind of surprised to see me. I’m hearing only good stuff: good luck, and welcome back. So it’s great to see players that are really happy to have me back. Actually, I miss them as well. There were a few people I was in touch with, and it’s nice to see them finally.”
Among those surprised and delighted to see Kvitova in the draw was Johanna Konta, who said when told: “She’s in the draw? I didn’t know. I knew she was hoping to play, but I don’t look at the draw. Actually, that’s really good. I hope I actually see her now. I haven’t spoken to her in a little while. That’s massively positive, that’s really good news.”
Not many sporting rivals gush so fully over the return of someone who might be a barrier to their own success. As it happens, Konta is on the other side of the draw, and has challenges of her own deeper in the draw, where she might play the No9 seed Agnieszka Radwanska in the fourth round, Karolina Pliskova in the quarters and maybe the injured but dangerous Simona Halep or the No5 seed Elina Svitolina in the semi-finals.
Still, she is in the draw. Alone, representing Britain.
As Konta, seeded No7, was being drawn to play the 31-year-old Taiwanese world No109 Hsieh Su-wei, Heather Watson was out on Court No6 losing her ninth game in a row in just 45 minutes against the fourth-seeded qualifier, Richèl Hogenkamp. The struggling British player received courtside treatment for an injury to her left knee – and won three games, before the Dutch player wrapped it up without fuss.
Hsieh, a serial loser in qualifiers at majors who has done little of note outside doubles in recent years, did reach the second round at Wimbledon two years ago, but it would be surprising if she forced a third set out of Konta.
After a long and bruising season in which he has endured unprecedented abuse from the stands and the skies, Arsène Wenger hovers on the brink of an extraordinary personal triumph. There he is, Arsenal’s longest-serving manager, just one more game and one more post-match press conference away from going an entire campaign without letting slip the slightest clue as to whether he will be on his throne next season. It is a daunting, wacky and deeply satisfying challenge that Wenger has set himself and he is tantalisingly close to completing it, like a bloke just 100 metres shy of Penzance harbour having circumnavigated the globe in a modified Dora the Explorer lunchbox. Come on Arsène, you can do it! One. Last. Hush.
For months and months Wenger has been unyielding in the face of simple requests for clarity, staring at the drooling, yellow-toothed maw of the national media and remaining steadfastly unhelpful. Younger and weaker managers would have cracked just to get a moment’s breathing space away from the sweaty interrogators, and then their defeat would have been trumpeted from a yellow ticker of shame. Not Wenger. He may have lost his Big Cup place and the love of many Arsenal fans, but neither the press nor social media disgrace Twitter will grind him down. So no one knows whether Saturday’s FA Cup final will be Wenger’s last match in charge of Arsenal after a reign of nearly 21 years. The Fiver has asked sources in the American intelligence services but they’re not telling, which means even they don’t know. All we can say for sure is that the 136th FA Cup final will be memorable for any of a multitude of possible reasons.
Most likely it will go down as the match in which Antonio Conte completed the Double in his first season in England. That, depending on what’s going on chez Arsenal, might mean a painful end to Wenger’s epic reign. On the other hand, this final might be remembered as the one in which one of the greatest managers in the history of English football pulled off one last masterstroke by overcoming savage criticism, a spate of injuries and a brain barf by Laurent Koscielny to somehow beat the champions with a central defence comprised of any three from Rob Holding, Nacho Monreal, Steve Bould, Ainsley Harriot, Dara O’Briain, Tony McCoy, Johnny Rotten, Tony Hadley, Barbara Windsor, Benedict Cumberbatch, Donald Trump’s son, Tony Adams’s blue chequered-suit, Goonersaurus, one of those machines used to mark out the lines on a pitch or, as a last resort, Per Mertesacker.
That would be an aptly impressive way for Wenger to win his seventh (SEVENTH) FA Cup. Whatever happens, the Fiver mostly hopes that Wenger remains tightlipped about his future in the post-game press quiz or else that he announces his intention to stay for another couple of years via a banner trailed from a light aircraft. But there is also a part of the Fiver that wants Wenger to announce his imminent departure just before kick-off on Saturday and then award himself a starting place in the back three. Then a gnarled, divisive and self-indulgent old centre-back could sub himself off in, say, the 26th minute. And no one could dispute that he deserves a guard of honour.
“We have an ambitious project” – a suit at Funermostra, an annual funeral expo-shindig in Valencia, unveils a Bernabéu-shaped coffin designed to relieve wealthy Real Madrid fans of just the €15,000 should they breathe their last and fancy joining the worms in a stadium-themed box.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“I find your article of ‘The wastelands of the MLS, Chinese Super League or Everton’ (Thursday’s Fiver) very offensive. I will be reporting this to Everton FC to take action. Everton are an attractive team to play for after the investment of Farah Moshiri, also one of the biggest and most successful teams in the English Premier League, just to let you morons know football didn’t start in 1992 if you look it up Everton was formed in 1878 and is by NO means a wasteland, pathetic journalism with such offensive marks to one of the GREATS of English Football. I expect an apology and for this article to be withdrawn immediately!” – Steve the Evertonian (and no other Evertonians).
“I was happily wading through today’s Fiver while gently sipping a glass of the local red (I live in the Languedoc) when I read Matthew Atkinson’s letter. I quote (in full): ‘Sam Allardyce? He’s gonna do Strictly, isn’t he?’ As a result: (1) I spilt half of what was left in my glass of Minervois Rouge; (2) I know that I will not be able to sleep tonight because that image will keep popping into my subconscious. Matthew, you should be ashamed of yourself for even thinking such a thing” – Martyn Wilson.
“Are you winding us up with that Daniel Farke quote in yesterday’s Fiver? ‘The more I hear about Norwich, the more excited I get.’ It begs the question, what did they tell him about the city of Norwich? Maybe he’ll turn up believing dinosaurs roam the town square and dragons live in church towers” – Dan Makeham.
• Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our letter o’the day is … Steve the Evertonian, who wins a copy of The Agony & The Ecstasy: a Comprehensive History of the Football League Play-offs, courtesy of the kind chap that is Richard Foster. Get in touch to claim your prize.
‘Arry Redknapp wants to sign Benoit Assou-Ekotto but there’s a snag. “The only trouble is that he’s admitted he wants to be a pornstar,” sighed ‘Arry. “Maybe I can get another year out of him before he decides to do that. What a good player. He could well end up in the Birmingham colours next year, Benoit.”
Pablo Zabaleta has scrawled Pablo Zabaleta all over a two-year contract to join West Ham, a club that still considers full-backs relevant.
Sir Alex Ferguson has praised the spirit of the city of Manchester in the wake of Monday’s terrorist attack. “They went through some difficult times in the past, they will get together because they’ve got a working class ethic about them and there’s a great unity there in the city,” he said.
The ongoing shambles at Blackpool means the club have only sold 5,000 tickets for their League Two play-off final with Exeter but still, striker Mark Cullen is looking on the bright side. “I’m 25 so hopefully I get another chance to play at Wembley, but if you look at Neil Danns in our dressing room he’s old – 35 or something [he’s 34] – and he’s never played at Wembley so you should never give up the dream,” he crooned.
Crystal Palace have plundered the sofa and sold off the DVD collection to keep Wilfried Zaha at the club, signing the winger up to a new five-year contract worth £110,000-a-week. “I would like to thank the chairman for being a big part of my journey and his fellow owners for backing me and rewarding my progression. Let’s do this!” he cheered.
After Pep Guardiola’s doomed plan last summer – loaning out his best goalkeeper and replacing him with a midfielder in comedy foam gloves – the Manchester City boss has begun this one with a more traditional approach. Out goes the relative chaff of Jesús Navas, Gaël Clichy, Willy Caballero and Bacary Sagna and in comes a classy stalk of wheat in the shape of £60m Bernardo Silva, whose move from Monaco to the Etihad is expected to be confirmed on Friday evening.
And Garry Monk’s resignation from Nasty Leeds has sparked a scramble for his services with Watford and Middlesbrough thought to be jostling for position, while handbrake football’s Aitor Karanka is the favourite to take over at Elland Road.
“High-mileage battering ram”, “toxic theatricality” and “needling street-warrior spirit” are among the words used in Barney Ronay’s assessment of Diego Costa’s value. Read those words and all the other ones here.
“It was scary – you’re not thinking about football that night or the next day.” Borussia Dortmund’s Christian Pulisic talks about the impact of last month’s bus attack and lots more besides with Nick Ames.
Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain may have been the competition’s Unlucky Alf in recent years, having missed two finals, but he’s finally bang up for appearing in this year’s FA Cup final. “We’ve given ourselves an opportunity to win a trophy, which is what football’s all about,” he said, challening contemporary orthodoxy, in this chat with David Hytner
In other FA Cup final interview news, David Luiz admits taking a risk in returning to England, “the one country not happy with me”, as he reflects on a successful return to Chelsea, with Dominic Fifield.
How does it feel to win the play-offs? AFC Wimbledon boss Neal Ardley tells you here. Well, he tells Richard Foster actually. Yes, the man behind the Fiver letters prize.
Irish striker Cillian Sheridan riffs on a nomadic career that has taken him from Belvedere to Bulgaria, Barcelona and beyond, and given him the chance to say rude words to Leo Messi, in this interview with Jonathan Drennan.
In the age of the wealthy super clubs and the inequality gap, winning the Double has all become a bit meh, reckons Paul Wilson.
Score more! Move more! Jamie Jackson gives Manchester United five suggestions on how they can improve after their Big Vase win.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
In the Sheffield sunshine Kell Brook responded to the doubts that have loomed large over his title defence against Errol Spence Jr on Saturday in the most emphatic style possible – by showing off his chest. Brook looked ripped at Friday’s weigh-in and when the scales showed him coming in at 146lb 7oz there was no doubting his readiness to again do battle at welterweight.
Brook’s last contest came nine months ago at middleweight and ended with the now 31-year-old suffering the first defeat of his professional career and a broken right eye socket at the brutal hands of Gennady Golovkin. The punishment was so severe Dominic Ingle, Brook’s trainer, felt he had no choice but to throw in the towel with 1min 57sec of the fifth round remaining, later describing the injury as a “car crash”.
It was a chastening fight for Brook but one in which he battled hard, fought well, and showed he can compete at 160lb. Having done so, the sense was that this biggest of welterweights would stay at that level having in the buildup to facing Golovkin expressed his contentment at not having to boil down so much before a fight.
But Brook decided to return to the division where he made his name to defend the IBF world title he won in 2014, and as he squared up to Spence the pain of his preparation, all that training and rejection of food, did not lay itself bare.
Brook looked healthy and in pristine condition, inside the welterweight limit and with his focus shining through before what promises to be another testing examination of his ring craft and resilience.
Spence Jr arrives in England with a reputation as one of the most exciting fighters around at 147lb. The 27-year-old Texan has won all 21 of his contests after having excelled as an amateur, reaching the quarter-finals at the 2012 Olympics and going on to align his skills from those days with a level of vicious accuracy that has seen him stop his seven most recent opponents. He is the mandatory challenger for Brook’s title for a reason and it says a lot when Sugar Ray Leonard is among those who describe the softly-spoken father of two as “the real deal”.
Spence Jr, who weighed in at 146lb 5oz and also looked in excellent condition, will cause Brook problems, particularly given he is a southpaw. For the champion comes the benefit of the most emphatic home advantage possible – a sellout crowd at Bramall Lane, the home of his boyhood football club, Sheffield United, and what is sure to be the scene of fevered and frantic noise; 27,000-plus voices willing the champion to victory from first bell to last.
That, allied to his superior experience and punching power, should be enough to see Brook record a 37th win and fourth as the IBF champion.
On the undercard George Groves will aim to become a world champion for the first time when he faces the Russian Fedor Chudinov for the vacant WBA super-middleweight title. Groves’ previous three title challenges – against Carl Froch, twice, and Badou Jack – ended in defeat, but having won his four bouts since linking up with the trainer Shane McGuigan, the 29-year-old feels confident he can overcome Chudinov, who become a world champion with victory over Felix Sturm in only his 13th fight and arrives in south Yorkshire with a reputation for packing one hell of a punch.
Manu García runs his finger carefully down the long list of names, squinting slightly as he searches for his own. Sixteen years on, he knows where to look but there are 13,200 of them written in tiny white print on a blue and yellow background, covering every millimetre from top to bottom and left to right, so it is not easy to find. Eventually, he sees his father, hidden among hundreds of Garcías. And then, on the line below, he stops. “Here,” he says. “This is me.” MANUEL ALEJANDRO GARCÍA.
When Deportivo Alavés reached the latter stages of the Uefa Cup in 2001, they paid homage to their socios [members] by listing them all on the kit, literally part of the fabric of the club. Which is why the night they played their first ever final, against Liverpool in Dortmund, Manu García’s name was on the front of the shirt, two-thirds of the way down. On Saturday, when they play their second final, against Barcelona in Madrid, his name will be on the back. It will be stitched into the captain’s armband, too.
Now 31, García was born in Vitoria in 1986. “While the other kids wanted to be Romario or Laudrup, I wanted to be Manolo Serrano,” he says. He was an Alavés fan because of his dad and a socio too. He still is: the seat he sits in as he talks is his seat, even if he’s barely been up here in five years – he has been down there instead. “I remember games, moments, flashes, details,” he says softly, pointing out corners of the ground. Across the pitch is the general where he stood when he was a kid. No one stands at Mendizorroza now; it looks different these days, but the memories remain.
“Sitting here, I see things like a fan again and that perspective is something you lose a when you’re down there,” he says. “I can see an 8-5 against Real Unión, a penalty at that end, everyone standing, celebrating goals hanging off the fence. I can see myself another time asking my dad for permission to climb over …”
Permission? “I was a good boy, a good son,” García smiles. “When Alavés were promoted to the first division against Rayo Vallecano [in 1998], I remember standing there with my cousin and looking back at my dad, him saying ‘OK’. I climbed over and went around the pitch with the players. For me, it’s moments like those, or Serrano’s goal knocking Madrid out the cup, but my dad remembers everything. Alavés hadn’t been in primera for 42 years and that day I remember him saying: ‘I didn’t think we’d go up again; I didn’t think I’d ever see it.’”
“He’s seen them go back, he’s seen a Uefa Cup final, and he’s seen his son play in the first division for Alavés.” Now, Alejandro García will watch his son lead them out for the Copa del Rey final, too. “I feel lucky to be about to live something this club has only experienced once before. My dad and I talk about it a lot, we get quite emotional,” García says. “I feel emotional now, just thinking about it.”
“We know what lies behind it: the work, the sacrifice, the effort. His effort. My mum’s, my sisters’, mine. What we’ve been through, the bad moments,” García continues, puffing out his cheeks. “It’s a dream, really.”
Only he never even dreamed this. “Very few people get the chance to experience something like this; very few even think it’s possible. When you’re a kid, with that innocence kids have, maybe you think you’ll play for your home-town team. I remember local players like Sivori, Pablo, Salcedo: I wanted to be like them. You think if they play for Alavés why can’t you? But realistically you don’t think it’s possible, not once you’re inside football and you see how hard it is, how unlikely it is for the circumstances to be right. You just don’t see it.”
And that’s the thing. This is not just “local boy makes cup final with his team”; it is making it at all. Him and them. Although Real Sociedad spotted him at 14, until last August García had never played in La Liga before. The midfielder hadn’t even played in the second tier until 2013. For eight years, he played at second division B level, for Real Sociedad’s B team, Real Unión, Eibar and Logroñés. García was still there when he finally got the chance to play for Alavés – and when it came it was not because he had risen to their level, it was because they had dropped to his.
Miraculous Uefa Cup finalists in 2001, Alavés were relegated in 2003, returned in 2004 and, by then owned by the infamous Dimitry Piterman, were relegated again in 2006. Piterman disappeared, leaving the club in economic crisis and on the verge of going out of business, another relegation following in 2009. With Alavés in administration, in 2011 the owners of Baskonia basketball club were persuaded to embark on a rescue mission. The following summer, García got a call.
“I was with my parents when they called to say they were interested. I knew then that I’d play for Alavés: there was no way we wouldn’t reach an agreement. I’d been through a hard time and it meant coming home, joining the team where I was still a socio. I went with some very close friends, some of whom had struggled too, and that first year was pure ilusión [hope, optimism, enthusiasm]. It was home, my club, my people. I can see the first training session, coming through that door over there,” he says, pointing. “I can remember the laps round the pitch, seeing the stands, the drills. I still have photos.”
“I was a socio, even when I played elsewhere. I remember a play-off against Lugo to go up to the second division. I was desperate for them to win [but] if they had, I’d never have played here. My history would have changed completely. If Alavés had been in the first division, even the second, they would never have thought of me.”
So they came together as “amateurs”, but they didn’t stop there. In that first season, Alavés were promoted to the second division; the following year, they survived on the final day thanks to a 94th minute goal at Jaén, when relegation back to Segunda B might have been catastrophic; in the fourth, they won the title, returning to the top flight after almost a decade away. García scored the goal that effectively secured it, then got their first in primera – in the 94th minute against Atlético at the Calderón. On Saturday, they return there in the Copa del Rey final, the stadium’s last ever match.
This is huge for Alavés, historic. The memory of the game against Liverpool in Dortmund underlines just how big. In the groundsman’s office in the corner, where the lawnmowers are kept, one wall is decorated with a massive mural of the ticket from that match in 2001. García could not go; he was playing for Real Sociedad B. “I came back to Vitoria to watch it here with my dad,” he says. “Vitoria was deserted. It was a day like today: hot, sunny. It was: suffer, enjoy, suffer, enjoy … and end up crying. We were very sad but with time we only felt pride – and that’s still there.”
Sixteen years on, they’re back to another final. García didn’t expect this, but he did expect Alavés to get back to primera; what he never anticipated was that he would be there with them. “No, not that,” he admits. “No, no. Not that.”
“But the club? I knew the club would make it: they had everything. A strong group running the club, working well: they signed good players, good coaches. And above all, they had a fan base that would never abandon them. It’s only six, seven years since Alavés went through very, very bad times and if those fans hadn’t taken a step forward and spoken up, the local authorities would have abandoned the club, left it to die. It would have folded. The fans didn’t let it happen.”
“I was sure Alavés would return to the first division, but not for it to all happen so quickly. And I thought I’d be here a year, maybe two. ‘One season, then let’s see.’ And it’s been five seasons like that.”
García is the only one left from 2012. Does that make you sad? “Yes,” he says. “Because …” For a moment, he can’t find the words. “Look…” he starts. He blows out his cheeks. “There are so many people who went through so much, who made such an effort for this club, who were so dedicated, and for them to not live this moment now with us is a huge pity.
“I think about the people who won promotion, and especially about those who were in Jaén fighting for survival: people like Borja Viguera, Luismi, Jago Beobide, Ion Vélez, Iñaki Goitia. People who did that but haven’t been able to stay and enjoy this moment like I am. I think of them a lot and it saddens me. I keep them present, talk about them publicly. I know they’re enjoying this and they’re part of it: without them, Alavés wouldn’t be here today.”
It’s different now, players are different. García’s car stands out parked under one corner of the stadium, precisely because it doesn’t stand out, and it feels like he is a case apart. It’s not so much that players are different as the surroundings are, he says: “life makes you, life takes you.” Asked how much an average player earns in Segunda B, he says “poco …” There’s a long pause. “It wouldn’t reach €2,000 a month. [Less than £21,000 a year]. A long way from the figures we’re talking about now, wow! It’s nothing like it. But the demands were the same in our minds. We were very professional, entirely dedicated. That hasn’t changed; what changes is everything around us. We’re very lucky.
“It’s not just the salaries, it’s everything. The pitch is always in good condition. There are so many more people with us. There are assistants, fitness coaches, physios, recovery staff. Before, there was one physio, now it’s three. We travel by plane, it was bus then. The hotels have changed. Everything that goes with being in the first division is magnificent and players should appreciate that. I’ve done 10-hour journeys by bus, stopping twice, arriving in the middle of the night after a defeat. Now, in two hours, we’re home. It’s all so comfortable.”
Until they step onto the pitch, that is. “You see it when new team-mates join: they’re faster, more impressive physically, better technically. Every single one of my team-mates is brilliant at something. They’re all complete, too. Before, maybe you had team-mates – or you yourself – who can do one or two things but are weak in others. Or you’re only decent in everything. Now, everyone can do a bit of everything and they’re all brilliant at something. And when you play Barcelona, Madrid, Atlético … pfff … they’re another level. You have to make a huge effort to compete with them.”
So how do you? After all, Alavés drew with Atlético and won at the Camp Nou, finishing ninth, their fourth highest finish in history. How can they beat Barcelona?
“To match them, we have to be smarter, cleverer, understand what the game requires at every moment. This is a team game and that’s what gives us a chance. If it was individual, they’re better footballers. But as it is a team game, you can think: what do we need? What can I do to help my team-mate? How do we make this work? You’re thinking that every second. How can I make it difficult for the opponents, help my team-mate take advantage? How do we create that opportunity? That’s our weapon. We’re a great team.
“The way we play isn’t intuitive; it’s worked on. We have clear movements, a mechanism that has been built very consciously. The way we shift across, a long way, the way we keep the lines close together, the small distance between players. All teams defend in similar ways but then there’s the attacking phase where people think that it’s all inspiration and creativity. It’s not. If you look from high up, one camera, a wide angle, you see how we’re positioned, how defined our roles are. The duty every player has is clear; we all put our qualities at the disposal of the team. No egos, solidarity.”
Still, it’s hard. Even the little guys are tough. At the Bernabéu, García admits his surprise at how one Real Madrid player barely flinched when he clattered into him. “You see how good they are but also how they press, how they work …” he says admiringly. “That’s why they’re the world’s best: they do everything. I was very impressed by [Luka] Modric. I suffered him. Isco, too.”
Suffer is the word. Asked if he enjoys it, García pulls a face. “Not much. Not me. Those games demand so much from you, so much effort and concentration, that it’s hard to enjoy it. Sometimes when you’re playing, you have so much to do and think about that you can’t. You enjoy it more as a fan. Maybe at the end, you do.”
So why do it? “Because you like that feeling afterwards,” he says, adding: “And before as well, sometimes. The nerves, the doubts. Will I play well? Am I ready? There’s something about making demands of yourself, knowing you have to really push yourself. And if it works, if you get your reward …”
If they get their reward on Saturday, especially. It’s a unique moment, but the sensations may not be new. “I think I know how I’ll feel if we win,” García says. “The way I felt when we won promotion, both times; the way I felt when we survived; the way I felt after Celta [in the semi-final]. You feel plenitude, fulfilled, complete. Nothing hurts, you’re happy, you’ve made people happy. That’s a feeling I’m lucky enough to have experienced a few times here, one you can share. They’ll all be there: my dad, my friends, those team-mates, my family, my girlfriend, the people I love. If we win, we’ll celebrate together.
“We’ve already made history playing in the second final; if we win, we’ll touch heaven. If we win, we’ll be Alavés’s champions, the first at the club. And it’s a club with a 96-year history.” It is his club; it says so on the shirt.
There’s a saying that sounds like an ancient bit of received wisdom but probably originates with the justly maligned Tom Cruise vehicle Cocktail that goes “everything ends badly, otherwise it wouldn’t end”. Like many clichés that only seem meaningful if you don’t think about them too hard, it doesn’t really apply it to real life but it works wonders when talking about sports. In sports, only one team or player is guaranteed a happy ending, while every other participant’s quest ends ends in a loss, usually a painful one that effectively invalidates all of the successes that brought them to that point.
There are exceptions though. Consider the 2016-17 Boston Celtics, whose season ended on Thursday with a 135-102 home loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 5 of the Eastern Conference finals. The Celtics never held a lead in the game, not even during its opening minutes, and were down by 20 points as early as the first quarter. Before half-time it became increasingly obvious that this would be their last game of the season. By any objective measure, it should have been a depressing, dispiriting end for the fans of the home team.
Yet it didn’t feel that way at TD Garden, which had more the feeling of an appreciative wake than a funeral. For the most part, the fans, at least the ones loyal or naïvely optimistic enough to remain in the arena for most of the game, seemed to be keenly aware of the fact that these Celtics had gone as far as their talent could take them. Less than three seasons ago, they traded point guard Rajon Rondo, the last remaining starter from the 2008 championship team, to the Dallas Mavericks. The team, under new head coach Brad Stevens, was clearly signalling the beginning a long-term rebuilding process.
They were never supposed to be this good this soon. The Celtics went on a run immediately after trading for undersized guard Isaiah Thomas in 2015, leading to a completely unexpected playoff appearance just months after apparently punting on the season. The next year they finished in fifth place in the Eastern Conference and then managed to sign free agent Al Horford during the offseason.
They were supposed to be better this year, but only the most delusional optimists could have expected them to seize the No1 seed in the Eastern Conference without making a significant move before the deadline (thanks to an assist from the Cavaliers’ mounting indifference towards the regular season). After not getting past the first round in their last two postseason appearances, these Celtics made it to within one round of the NBA finals. Yes, the Cavaliers made quick work of them, but few seriously thought they would have much of a chance against the defending champs. Heck, they even managed to steal a game from Cleveland, on the road no less, something which none of their other opponents managed to do.
Now, maybe Boston could have been a bit more competitive in this series. Whenever a team falls short of a title, we can always play th “what if” game: What if the Celtics hung onto their 16-point lead in Game 4 and ended up tying the series two-all. What if Thomas came into the series fully healthy rather than severely hampered by the hip injury that eventually forced him to sit out the last three games of the season?
However, most reasonable fans realized, even before the series began, that it would take a series of miracles and/or unfortunate injuries to the other guys for this particular Celtics team to somehow beat the Cavaliers and make it to the championship round. I would like to think that the fans who chanted “Let’s go Celtics,” something of a growing tradition at the Garden when fans sense that the end is near, and gave the team a standing ovation during the final futile minutes of the blowout loss, represented the majority of the fanbase who understood that this particular Celtics team went as far as they could possibly go, farther than most thought they would.
The downside to the Celtics’ successful season is that expectations are going to be much, much higher from here on out. The Celtics are no longer rebuilding. They clinched the best record in the East, made it to the conference finals and, thanks to the Brooklyn Nets, they have the top pick in the upcoming NBA draft. The Celtics have a fairly young team and one of the most respected coaches in the game. Should they lose four games to one to the Cavaliers, or some other Eastern Conference team next season, it’s not going to play as a feel-good story. Nor should it.
The Celtics are, in fact, about to face their biggest challenge of the Brad Stevens era. They’re now at a crossroads, where general manager Danny Ainge and company have to decide what the next step should be. Do they try to put together a team that could legitimately threaten LeBron James’s current seven-year streak of reaching the finals? Do they play it more conservatively and focus on acquiring potentially talented younger players over established All-Stars even at the cost of taking a step back next season or possibly beyond?
Staying put won’t be an option either, even if it were the right course of action. The harsh economic realities of the NBA, along with potential positional overlap, will soon make it impossible for them to keep the core of this team together. Key players such as Avery Bradley and Jae Crowder, maybe even current team MVP Thomas, could be suiting up for other teams in the near future, depending on who the Celtics can afford and what players they bring in either through the draft or free agency.
That’s maybe the most bittersweet part of the “Let’s go Celtics” chants, these represented the last chance for fans to show their appreciation for this particular group of players, not a superstar among them, who were never meant to win a championship but absolutely won their respect.
Antonio Conte is ready to sign a contract extension with Chelsea which will establish him as the highest-paid manager in the club’s history as he seeks to secure a Premier League and FA Cup Double with victory over Arsenal at Wembley.
Chelsea are expected to offer the Italian a deal worth around £9.6m a year until 2021, two years beyond his current contract’s expiry, in the wake of a hugely impressive first year in English football. Conte anticipates returning briefly to Italy for a break after the FA Cup final and the club’s end-of-season awards night in Battersea on Sunday, but will soon be back in London to continue planning for next season.
Confirmation of his new deal will follow. “My situation is very clear: I have two more years’ contract with the club,” said Conte. “Then, if the club give me the possibility to stay here and to extend my contract, for sure I am available to do this. We have the same idea about the future and we’ve started to work for next season. For sure we’ll try to improve our squad because we have to face an important competition in the Champions League. But I think the club and me, we have the same point of view on this. I hope to stay here for many years.”
Conte, who has been the subject of strong interest from Internazionale, is understood to be stepping up his English lessons this summer and will be joined in England by his wife, Elisabetta, and nine-year-old daughter, Vittoria, from the start of next season. The 46-year-old’s focus at present is on achieving Chelsea’s second Double – emulating the achievement of Carlo Ancelotti in his first year at the club in 2009-10 – with victory at Wembley and he has admitted the team’s progress this season has surprised him, particularly after they were badly beaten at Arsenal on 24 September.
That 3-0 defeat prompted Roman Abramovich to spend three days at Cobham observing training. The owner’s presence might, in the past, have signalled the worst for the manager. “But he watched our sessions, saw our video analysis and stayed with us, supporting me,” said Conte, who is expected to prefer Nemanja Matic to Cesc Fàbregas in the Chelsea midfield on Saturday. “He never showed me he was angry. I think the club always saw my job, during pre-season and in that period, and trusted in me. I never thought the club was thinking about sacking me. Honestly.
“But it was very difficult to think we’d arrive at the end of the season and be celebrating winning the league back then. Not impossible but very difficult. In that period we had a lot of big problems to solve and to find the right solution quickly is not easy. In fact, at the start of the season, if you’d said we could qualify for the Champions League, I’d have signed for that. But then I found great players, players who could implement our ideas and changes, and we were able to change our season.”
Chelsea’s recovery from that defeat at the Emirates extended to a 13-game winning streak, with the title claimed by seven points from Tottenham Hotspur. The champions’ motivation at Wembley extends to setting an early tone for next season. “All of the players are ready and even for the next season I think Saturday is a good opportunity to put pressure on Arsenal and on all our rivals also,” said Eden Hazard. “If we win, it’s good to prepare the next season.
“I hope this is the start of something. We have this new manager, we have a couple of young players, so everything is ready to build. The last 10 years in Chelsea were great. The team won a lot of trophies but now it’s like a new generation. Frank Lampard is finished, Didier Drogba is finished, Ashley Cole, now John Terry. All gone. So it’s a new generation and we want to prove that the club is one of the best in the world. We have to be ready for that.”
Abramovich will fund further squad strengthening, with the Monaco midfielder Tiemoué Bakayoko expected to be the first player to move to Stamford Bridge, with the Champions League campaign in mind. Southampton’s Virgil van Dijk is another target and will challenge Gary Cahill as the left-sided of the three centre-halves. The England defender had been the subject of £6m and £12m bids from Arsenal while at Bolton in 2011, the first of which was dismissed as “derisory” by the Wanderers manager at the time, Owen Coyle.
Cahill would go on to join Chelsea for £7m six months later and while Arsenal fret over the makeup of their backline in the absence of Laurent Koscielny and Gabriel, Chelsea will go into the FA Cup final hoping to secure his seventh piece of major silverware in five years. “[The move to Arsenal] was close to happening, but it broke down on the fee,” said Cahill. “It never got down to whether or not I wanted to go there, it was between the two clubs. They showed interest, but they couldn’t agree a fee and that was it.”
Barack Obama arrived in Scotland for his first ever visit and a round of golf at St Andrews before a charity dinner in Edinburgh that could hardly strike a more contrasting note with his successor.
Though officially on a private visit to Europe, the former US president risks upstaging Donald Trump, who made an awkward first impression with Nato leaders in Brussels on Thursday and had a visibly chilly first meeting with the pope in Rome.
By contrast, Obama was warmly received by the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, during an earlier visit to Berlin on Thursday and then landed in Scotland on Friday amid the sort of excitement normally reserved for current world leaders.
The truncated four-car motorcade that picked up a casually-dressed former president from a private airport outside Edinburgh served as a rare reminder that, despite the tight security, this is no longer a serving head of state.
Obama’s office insist the long-scheduled trip is a strictly private affair whose timing is coincidental to Trump’s first overseas visit and will not be open to the media. Nonetheless, many camera phones were present to witness the famously golf-obsessed president complete his homage to St Andrews and tee off to a round of applause.
Before he teed off on the third the former president’s caddy reassured him that there was “no pressure, sir”. Obama, who was hitting last, said: “Well, going by those shots I shouldn’t feel any pressure.”
After his shot, he said: “Oh, that wasn’t so pretty.”
After the third hole, Obama wandered over to the crowd who had been following him round the course. He shook hands with people and spoke with them before heading back to resume play.
On Friday evening, he is due to speak at a charity dinner organised by Scottish businessman and philanthropist Sir Tom Hunter to help raise money for local youth charities.
Business leaders and celebrities will be entertained by music from Annie Lennox and Texas as well as hearing expected remarks from Obama.
“From the south side of Chicago to the White House has been an epic, historic journey and it will be a true honour to hear that story from the man who made that journey,” said Hunter when he announced the event.
Earlier in the week, first minister Nicola Sturgeon had warned that the dinner at the Edinburgh International Conference Centre might have to be reviewed as a result of security precautions after the Manchester bombing.
On Thursday in Berlin, Obama paid tribute to the victims of the attack, saying he was “heartbroken by this extraordinary tragedy”.
“It is unimaginable to think about the cruelty and the violence the city of Manchester has suffered,” he added in a video message recorded with the archbishop of Canterbury, Justin Welby.
“What I also want to emphasise though is through faith and resolve the character of the people of Manchester has shown itself with the kindness and the ways in which you were assisting each other. And just know that the entire world is in solidarity with you right now.”
Obama met Merkel and Welby in front of a large crowd at the iconic Brandenburg Gate – part of a regular festival organised by the German Protestant church.
The former president heads next to Ireland before flying home but will not be meeting Theresa May, who is at the G7 in Sicily before resuming campaigning for next month’s general election.
Post-referendum relations with the British government have been strained since Obama openly campaigned alongside David Cameron against leaving the EU.
Whoever coined the phrase “demographics are not destiny” could have been referring to Major League Soccer in Texas just as easily as talking about politics.
Simple population figures would imply that two of the league’s biggest clubs are facing off in the Texas Derby on Sunday, with the right to fire a cannon awarded to the team with the season’s best head-to-head record - provided they have secured the appropriate paperwork from safety-conscious city authorities, that is.
More than seven million people live in the Dallas metropolitan area, the fourth-largest in the nation. Houston is fifth, with nearly seven million. Yet FC Dallas are one of the least-watched teams in MLS and Houston’s crowds are on the slide.
Going into the weekend, the rivals sat second and third in the Western Conference standings, with the Dynamo owning the best home record in MLS: played seven, won six, drawn one.
Under their new head coach, Wilmer Cabrera, Houston offer a direct, fast-paced style and are liable to score – and concede – often. The Mexican forward and designated player, Erick “Cubo” Torres, has nine goals, making him the league’s second-highest scorer so far this season.
The average crowd, though, is 17,653: a modest figure, especially given the MLS habit of declaring tickets distributed rather than actual attendance.
After a boost when they moved from a crumbling university football venue to a smart downtown soccer-specific home in 2012, Houston’s average crowd is roughly back to where it was before they left, while other teams have overtaken them. In their last season at Robertson Stadium they ranked ninth in attendance; in their first season at BBVA Compass Stadium, fourth; last season, fourteenth; currently, fifteenth out of 22 teams.
The capacity of Dallas’ Toyota Stadium has been limited to about 16,000 since last year because of construction, but in 2015 the side only drew an average of 15,981 fans – third-worst in MLS.
And that year, just as in 2016, Dallas had the best regular-season record in MLS. So what is going on?
Like the Chicago Fire, who beat them 2-1 on Thursday in front of 12,584, Oscar Pareja’s side are not helped by the location of their stadium. It is in the distant suburb of Frisco, 29 miles from downtown and a journey that can take well over an hour when traffic is heavy. Houston’s home appears ideally located to entice supporters from all corners of the city, but the Dynamo have not reached the playoffs since 2013.
“Houston is very much a fairweather fan mentality when it comes to all of [the city’s] local sports teams,” said James Hromadka of the Texian Army fan group. He has attended every Dynamo road game against Dallas and will be at Toyota Stadium on Sunday. “When you have a winning team, people show up.”
Manny Gutierrez, one of the leaders of another group, El Battalon, said that there was a sense that ownership was resting on its laurels in previous years and a discouraging lack of effort on the field, though matters are improving. (A representative of one of Dallas’ main supporters groups declined to comment for this article; another group did not respond to a comment request.)
Still, much smaller places – Salt Lake City, Portland, Kansas City and Vancouver, to name a handful – attract as many or more MLS fans, even though Texas’s status as a major sporting hub is not in dispute and crowds for international and overseas club fixtures are often impressive, with Manchester United set to face Manchester City in Houston on 20 July, two days before north Texas hosts a Concacaf Gold Cup semi-final.
“Not to take anything away from Portland but aside from the [NBA’s] Blazers there’s really not a whole lot else. There’s a team that’s got decades of history that precede MLS,” Gutierrez said.
“Houston gets absolutely saturated with Latin American clubs that come here. These are the teams of our fathers, the teams of the countries that many of the people that live in this city, where they come from. And there’s this loyalty to that brand, loyalty to the club that they grew up with. We’re surrounded by a lot of clubs and fans that look at us as outsiders, the new guy, kind of thrown into a market where there was a lot of established fan groups.”
The Dynamo started play in 2006 after then-owners AEG relocated the San Jose Earthquakes to Houston and won MLS Cup in their first two seasons. “We came at a very weird transitionary period in the league [four years] after contracting a couple of teams [in Florida], moving a team that had a lot of history in its market but couldn’t seem to keep that team around,” Gutierrez said.
Dallas are an original MLS franchise, kicking off in 1996 as the Dallas Burn, but have never lifted the MLS Cup and reached the final only once. “It’s not an easy market,” MLS commissioner Don Garber told the Dallas Morning News last year.
“It’s less important to me where they sit in relation to other clubs. We’re able to look at their metrics and see that they’re moving in the right direction. All indicators are moving in the right direction, although other teams in the league are moving a bit faster. But over time they will start winning some championships so that they can have a legacy of success on the field that hopefully can translate into success off the field.”
Houston lost 4-1 to Atlanta United last week in front of nearly 45,000 fans in Georgia z- and the newcomers have not even moved into their new stadium yet. As Steve Davis wrote in FourFourTwo in February, the newer teams are generally enjoying better crowds than the more venerable franchises as they join a league with a growing buzz that has learnt from mistakes it made in its early years.
They enter from a higher floor, usually with bigger and better stadiums, with a cachet and media attention that was denied to older clubs that – with Sporting Kansas City a notable exception – have struggled to enhance or transform initial impressions.
“The teams that are coming into the league today and over the last couple of years have a distinct advantage over some of the teams that have been in existence from day one simply because soccer has grown so much in popularity over the last decade that they’re riding this wave of popularity for the game, and coming in to the league with a very clean, fresh image for the sport and for the league,” said Chris Canetti, the Dynamo president.
“As soccer continues to grow in this country and continues to evolve, these newer expansion teams in my opinion have some advantages in their opportunity to succeed right off the bat.”
Canetti said that local television viewing figures for Dynamo games are up 200% now that they are on a more accessible channel. Growth is not always fully definable by raw numbers – Hromadka also measures the Dynamo’s progress in the number of orange bumper stickers he spots on cars around town, and how often he steps into a bar that’s showing soccer.
In the beginning, he said, “People were like, ‘Oh, we have a team, I didn’t know that.’ So you had that for the first few years. Now, when I go to an Astros [MLB] game I actually see people wearing Dynamo jerseys and hats … It is part of the city’s consciousness.”
West Ham have signed the former Manchester City defender Pablo Zabaleta. The Argentina full-back will join the London club on a two-year deal from 1 July, when his contract with City expires having been released at the Etihad Stadium.
“This is an absolute pleasure to be part of West Ham,” Zabaleta told West Ham TV. “I hope I can give you good moments. Of course, I come to the club to enjoy myself and hopefully we can have a very successful time.”
Zabaleta made more than 200 appearances for City following a move from Espanyol in 2008. During his time at the club, the full-back won the Premier League twice, as well as the 2011 FA Cup and two League Cups.
Zabaleta revealed he turned down offers from Italy, Spain and also elsewhere in England to sign up with the Hammers. The 32-year-old is confident he can continue to deliver following his move to the London Stadium.
“Sometimes a new challenge is all you need as a person and as a player. I thought my time at City was done. It has been a fantastic nine years, absolutely brilliant,” he said.
“Manchester City gave me the opportunity to come to this wonderful league, the Premier League, something I’ve been enjoying a lot as a player. And, of course, for me it was probably the right time to move on.
“Also, as a player, I thought I wanted to keep playing in the Premier League. For me, after being in this country for so long, this is a new challenge for me in the Premier League and I’m ready for it and looking forward to it.”
Zabaleta is the first major summer signing by Slaven Bilic, who is determined to improve the squad next season as the east London club look to build on a mid-table finish. West Ham confirmed on Thursday the departures of Alvaro Arbeloa, Jonathan Calleri and Gokhan Tore.
Another chapter in the story of AFC Wimbledon’s remarkable rise up the leagues was written last May, when they went to Wembley and secured their sixth promotion in 13 seasons. The club had only played their first competitive match in 2002 – in the tenth-tier Combined Counties League – but here they were competing for a place in League One, where they would meet their nemeses, MK Dons.
Their 2-0 victory over Plymouth Argyle in the final was fully deserved, with Lyle Taylor’s accomplished finish setting them on their way before Ade Akinfenwa delivered the perfect swansong to his AFC Wimbledon career with his penalty in the 100th minute. That the match was played out in front of 57,956 fans – a bigger crowd than had watched the League One final the previous day – shows just how much people were invested in AFC Wimbledon’s triumph.
AFC Wimbledon’s visit to Wembley could not have been better timed. It fell on the anniversary of the day the club was founded by Wimbledon FC fans back on 28 May 2002. Neal Ardley, who spent the majority of his playing career at the club and has now been managing them since 2012, secured their place in the play-offs with a match to spare, which gave him time to prepare for the three games that would define their season.
Ardley was determined to make the most of every small advantage he could to ensure his players were ready for their semi-final against Accrington Stanley. “By us making sure we had secured our play-offs place with one game remaining, it allowed me to freshen up the squad as they were at that point where they were just starting to feel the pinch after a heavy schedule of something like seven games in a month. Accrington had to go hard into the last game as they were so close to securing automatic promotion. Then all of a sudden they had the mental torture of not making it because of Bristol Rovers’ last-minute goal and then they have to play us, flogging the same team without a break. So we also had a physical edge as well as a mental one.”
AFC Wimbledon were at home for the first leg of the semi-final, which they won 1-0 thanks to a 94th-minute goal from Tom Beere. They had delivered yet another psychological blow to Accrington Stanley. Before the second leg, Ardley told his players not to worry if they fell behind as their superior fitness would count. Sure enough, the Dons found themselves 2-0 down after an hour and facing elimination. But they did not buckle. Akinfenwa’s goal made the aggregate score 2-2 and then Taylor’s goal in extra-time secured their place at Wembley. Even a rather surreal disruption caused by a floodlights failure at the Wham Stadium could not derail their progress.
The meticulous approach that had helped them reach the final paid dividends again when they met Plymouth at Wembley. “We had actually planned the whole month in advance,” says Ardley. “If we make the semis, this is what we are going to do; if we make the final, this is what we are going to do. We sat down and discussed what comes with a final, all the things that go on outside the game itself such as getting tickets, how many can the players buy, how much they will cost, where will family and friends be sitting.” The club decided they would make all the arrangements and allow the players to focus on the task ahead. It is a small detail but in Ardley’s eyes, it was a crucial one.
The next issue was how to cope with the period between the semi-final and the final, when the players would go almost a fortnight without a game, something they had not experienced during the season. “That would have seemed like an eternity,” says Ardley. “So we asked ourselves how do we make the time fly by? We actually trained as a squad for only four of those days and let the players do their own fitness in their local gyms with heart rate monitors. We also visited Wembley, went on the stadium tour, went on the pitch, looked at where their families would be sitting, seeing the dressing rooms, the lounge for afterwards. The only match preparation we held was on the Saturday and Sunday before the game and that was the only time we focused specifically on how we were going to play.”
“On the morning of the final I was convinced we were going to win that game. You could just see it in the players’ eyes. It wasn’t just bravado. There was no way we were going to lose. We decided to stay true to ourselves, so our players were in their tracksuits – as we had been all season – whereas their players were in tight-fitted suits that had been specially made. They were on the pitch taking selfies and we had done all that. One of our players said we have got these because they are trying to take it all in but we already had.”
Again the fine margins were working in AFC Wimbledon’s favour, but one small part of Ardley’s preparations was slightly awry and almost undermined their chances of victory. “We had booked a family holiday to Dubai for the night of the game. It was a 10.15pm flight from Heathrow so, had the game gone to extra time, it might have been a bit tight. The club had a car arranged on Wembley Way with all our cases ready to go. In the 75th minute the score was still 0-0, so I turned around and called up Neil Cox and Simon Bassey [his assistant coaches] and I told them ‘I’m thinking of going four upfront.’ They looked at me and said: ‘Really?” I said: ‘Look, I’ve got a plane to catch and can’t afford this to go to extra time.’ They just laughed but it was about the time we brought Akinfenwa on.”
Within a minute of that substitution Taylor scored and, almost inevitably, Akinfenwa wrapped up victory with a goal deep into injury time. After all the precise planning in advance and close attention to the finest detail, it is in some ways reassuring that the thought of missing a flight may just have finally swung the balance.
Richard’s updated book on the play-offs, The Agony and the Ecstasy, is out now
Antonio Conte is on the verge of winning the Double in his first season in England. That sounds a remarkable feat and actually it will be as Chelsea will have disposed of Manchester United, Tottenham and Arsenal in the FA Cup should they be found running round Wembley with the trophy on Saturday evening, though there can be little doubt the Double is a somewhat devalued currency these days.
With the decline of the FA Cup – weakened teams, empty seats, 5.30pm kick-offs at Wembley, you know the sort of thing – what used to be a rare and almost impossibly exalted honour has suffered a parallel status slip to become more commonplace. Manchester United managed it three times in the 90s. Arsenal have done it twice under Arsène Wenger. Even Chelsea have managed it before, and when Carlo Ancelotti won Cup and league in 2010 he lasted only one more season before getting the sack.
The Champions League is everything for leading clubs now, hence Roman Abramovich’s tepid interest in what a decade or two before would have been considered a historic club achievement. There were gasps when Kenny Dalglish won the Double as the Liverpool player-manager in 1986, first by scoring the only goal on the final day of the league season at Chelsea and then by beating Everton 3-1 in the final a week later. Everyone thought it was a landmark moment, and it was, because at that point the Double had been achieved only twice before in the whole of the 20th century.
Preston North End and Aston Villa had recorded Doubles towards the end of the 19th century, then there was a long wait until Bill Nicholson’s Tottenham achieved what was beginning to be regarded as impossible in 1961. Those were the glory days at Spurs, and though supporters back then would have been alarmed to know they would still be waiting for their next league title more than half a century later, it is probably true to say that all their dreams coming true at once made the next few years a little easier to bear.
Arsenal were the next Double winners in 1971, when one commentator was so underwhelmed by what he considered an unremarkable team he likened their achievement to “climbing Everest in brogues”. In other words, he thought an unworthy team had somehow diminished the feat. Never mind now whether Bertie Mee’s side were really that ordinary – most people thought Charlie George’s goal celebration in extra time at Wembley was fairly memorable, even if other members of the team were getting a little long in the tooth – just concentrate on the Everest connection. That was how the Double was perceived 50 years ago. A distant and daunting peak, a place few could aspire to visit.
No wonder it seemed remarkable when Dalglish, a 34-year-old in his first season in management, conquered it afresh 15 years later. No one knew that in the space of a single decade, either side of the turn of the century, Manchester United and Arsenal would manage it five times between them.
There were two things happening by that point: the Premier League was up and running and the Champions League had been rejigged into a format whereby two or three of the best teams in the country could enter each year. Both developments had the effect of making the top teams stronger and richer. Where once it had been a source of pride in this country to go six or seven years with different champions each season – as happened twice in the 60s and 70s – gradually the number of possible champions declined as smaller clubs were squeezed out of the picture.
In the first 12 years of the Premier League only three different teams won the title, and one of those was the singular Blackburn success that prevented Manchester United from recording five in a row. Even now, only six teams have been champions in 25 years of the Premier League, and that statistic would look much worse but for Blackburn’s intervention and Leicester’s heroics last year.
With the stratification of the league came the notion of a semi-permanent top four, and before long the FA Cup rarely left the possession of those teams. Apart from Everton in 1995, Portsmouth in 2008 and Wigan in 2013, the past 25 years have seen no unlikely victors, nor even that much drama, just a steady succession of winners from what began to be termed the Champions League elite.
The FA Cup became monopolised by the biggest, wealthiest clubs in the same way the Premier League did, with the obvious result that a single club winning both the main domestic honours in the same season was no longer such a stretch.
Liverpool might have been on borrowed time in 1986. Another couple of titles would come Dalglish’s way before the run of success stopped but English clubs were not competing in Europe at the time, so it was natural to see the Double as the height of what could be achieved. By the time the Heysel ban was lifted the European Cup had become all too obviously the major prize, and although it took Manchester United a while to adapt, their 1999 Treble earned them so much kudos they felt they had the right to give the FA Cup the swerve the following season, shamefully persuaded by the FA to support a doomed World Cup bid instead.
Was that the moment when the Double lost what remained of its lustre? It might have been, though the process was probably inevitable anyway. What is certain is that if Chelsea win the Cup it will be the 12th English Double. The first five were spread thinly over more than 100 years; the last seven will have been compressed into the 25 years of the Premier League era.
This seems to be the way of modern football, with the vast amount of wealth in the game creating a superclub effect rather than being shared around evenly. Should Juventus prevail in next Saturday’s Champions League final they will complete an Italian treble, only the second in that country’s history – but a mere seven years after Internazionale won the first. Whereas once trebles were almost unheard of in Europe, until Celtic set the ball rolling 50 years ago, four of the eight recorded have been accomplished in the last 10 years, with the possibility of another one coming along in Cardiff.
Supermoney breeds superclubs and supercoaches – Manchester City may not have won anything this season but they do have a manager who has won a treble – and there is every possibility the concentration of the game’s major prizes among a narrowing band of rich and powerful clubs will continue.
It is not glory as we used to know it, but by now the bulldozers will have got to Danny Blanchflower’s famous old quote, about what the game is supposed to be about, that used to run around the White Hart Lane stands. Spurs are perfectly entitled to put another one up at their new ground if they wish but, like bragging about being the first modern team to win the Double, it would simply be an exercise in nostalgia.
The yips can take more than one form. Usually we think of the phenomenon in terms of an individual submitting to a technical meltdown: a golfer seizing up at the sight of a six-inch putt, a tennis player suddenly incapable of tossing the ball up for a serve accurately, or a bowler losing the ability to land the ball anywhere near the cut strip.
Jon Lester is one of the stranger variations. A recent issue of Sports Illustrated carried a long and absorbing feature on the 33-year-old left-handed pitcher for the Chicago Cubs, who mysteriously lost the ability several years ago to throw the ball to first base. Facing a batter, he was as effective as ever. Turn him 90 degrees left, and he was like a man trying to find a target while blindfolded.
Naturally he tried to cure the problem, attempting to find its source in biometrics and psychology as he moved from the Boston Red Sox to the Oakland As and on to Chicago. Nothing made a difference. So he chose to work around it, developing a system of feints and signs to keep opponents from taking advantage of that specific weakness. His coaches came to accept the occasional stolen base as the price of pitching that remained useful enough for Lester to be given a $155m six-year contract by the Cubs and to play a part in their hoodoo-ending World Series win last year.
What makes the yips so alarming is the attack it mounts on a function that has probably never been questioned before. The fundamental joy of sport is in the satisfaction of making something go where you want it to go, whether it’s a tiny little golf ball or a 200mph racing car. That begins in childhood, with the first application of motor functions. As expertise grows, the simplest of pleasures can evolve naturally into an enriching engagement with competitive sport. It remains something against which we can continually measure ourselves, sometimes in as trivial a way as kicking a pebble into a gutter or tossing a crumpled envelope into a wastepaper basket.
Getting the yips is a horrifying experience. When it happened to me, I had been playing cricket very happily for almost 30 years. On a pleasant afternoon at a lovely ground in Oxford I’d taken four wickets in six or seven overs at fast-medium pace when the first delivery of a new over suddenly, and for no apparent reason, went vertical. The next one almost hit my toecap. And that’s how it continued, until the over mercifully ended after an excruciating number of no-balls.
Every element of natural coordination had vanished. It didn’t come back the next weekend or during solitary hours in the nets spent attempting to put it right. I didn’t try psychotherapy. Instead I gave up a game that had turned from a reliable source of self-validation into a generator of mental distress.
The key seemed to be in the moment the ball left the hand: the release from the fingertips. The more intense the efforts to sort it out, the more it seemed something intervened to override the combination of physical and mental judgment that made it possible to direct a ball accurately. It was as if a subliminal flash of white light had obliterated all the parameters instinctively consulted and processed at the moment of delivery. Maybe that’s what Lester experiences when he attempts a throw to first base.
The eminent philosopher and sports fan David Papineau, who teaches at King’s College London and New York’s City University, writes interestingly about the yips in his new book Knowing the Score, subtitled How Sport Teaches Us About Philosophy (And Philosophy About Sport). “The yips,” he writes, “are the sporting equivalent of a cancer that cannot be cured but only placed in remission.” According to his analysis, my efforts in the nets were worse than wasted. “No good can come from self-consciousness about your technique. By turning your mind towards the components of your skills, you reduce yourself to the level of a beginner who is trying to play by numbers. You end up desperately stitching together movements, rather than exercising the smooth skills your hours of practice have instilled in you.”
The yips, he continues, “afflict only those actions that are triggered by the players themselves”. That includes the taking of a penalty kick, as we saw again last weekend, when England’s record of failure at shoot-outs in international tournaments was extended to encompass the team who lost the final of the European Under-17 Championship.
They had twice taken the lead and were 2-1 up in stoppage time when Spain equalised again in the sixth minute of stoppage time. Using an interesting new Uefa system aimed at equalising the psychological pressure, under which one team takes the first penalty and then each takes two in a row, England’s Aidan Barlow converted the opening kick, followed by two successes for Spain. Then Rhian Brewster and Joel Latibeaudiere both missed for England, hitting a post and firing over the bar respectively, leaving their opponents to seal a 4-1 success with two more impeccable efforts.
It was hard to avoid the conclusion that Brewster and Latibeaudiere were undermined not by personal technical failings or by the significance of the night but by an underlying awareness of a dismaying tradition going back 10 years before they were born, to the nightmare of Chris Waddle and Stuart Pearce in Turin, and featuring Gareth Southgate, Paul Ince, David Batty, David Beckham, Darius Vassell, Frank Lampard, Steven Gerrard, Jamie Carragher, and the Ashleys Young and Cole. Gripped by fear of the shootout, England players of every type, age and degree of technical sophistication seem to fall victim to the sudden flash of white light that destroys their ability to bring mind and body together to accomplish a familiar action.
Some would define the under-17 defeat as choking: the collapse leading to the loss of a match which had seemed won. That might indeed be the effect but the cause is a version of the yips. Although perhaps not the very worst kind, the sort that ends careers, it is the result of a syndrome no remedy yet devised by a succession of England managers at all levels has cured.
Entire books have been written about penalty-taking, particularly since goalkeepers became taller and more agile and were permitted to move about on their line.
Someone at St George’s Park, perhaps with Southgate’s encouragement, should be taking a serious look at this problem and devising an approach applicable to all players: a method of mind management that replaces the distractions of process and outcome with a focus on something as simple as kicking a pebble into the gutter.
The Chinese are coming. Western chess is highly valued in Beijing, where sports officials long ago set up a national plan to establish their players at the pinnacle of the game. Already China has for decades dominated women’s events, where Hou Yifan is the all-time No2 while Tan Zhongyi is the latest in a long line of Chinese world champions.
Men’s chess has proved much tougher to crack. It is only a decade since China first briefly got a player into the top 10 in the rankings, and three years since the Chinese team won the 150-nation team Olympiad.
This week a fresh landmark came into sight when Ding Liren, 24, won the Moscow leg of the four-tournament Fide Grand Prix to give China’s No1 a serious chance of qualifying for the 2018 candidates, the event which will decide the next challenger for Magnus Carlsen’s world crown. Ding had a helping hand in the final round when Israel’s Boris Gelfand. the 2012 challenger, decided that only a win could keep his slim chances alive and went for broke with an unsound sacrifice which Ding easily rebutted.
After the Sharjah and Moscow Grand Prix legs, with Geneva in July and Palma in November still to come, there are probably only four realistic contenders for the two candidates spots. Every player takes part in three of the four legs and all three performances count.
Shak Mamedyarov (Azerbaijan) has 280 Grand Prix points, Ding 240, Alexander Grischuk (Russia) and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (France) both 211.4. Mamedyarov is best-placed after finishing joint first in Sharjah and second in Moscow. On the downside four grandmasters who played in the 2016 candidates in Moscow – Anish Giri (Netherlands), Levon Aronian (Armenia), Peter Svidler (Russia) and Hikaru Nakamura (US) – are likely to be eliminated.
Caution was the watchword in Moscow, where nearly 75% of the games were drawn. Ding won three games and the only other to match that was Hou, whose 5/9 total was the first plus score by a woman in an elite GM tournament since Judit Polgar.
She has jumped into the world top 100 and her 2666 rating is only 21 behind her personal best of 2015.
Michael Adams dropped out of the world top 20 after winning only one game, albeit a good one. The England No1 was well prepared for Ernesto Inarkiev’s favourite 9...Nb8 and when the Russian failed to play 14...a5 White took control. The blemish was 18 Qe2?! (f3!) when the game was level until Black weakened his king by 22...g6? (bxc3 23 bxc3 Bc4 24 Bc2 Bd5 is solid). Adams’s bishop pair then dominated the board, he avoided the trap 27 Nxg6? Qf6! and his queen and rook homed in for a mating attack.
Michael Adams v Ernesto Inarkiev
1 e4 e5 2 Nf3 Nc6 3 Bb5 a6 4 Ba4 Nf6 5 O-O Be7 6 d3 b5 7 Bb3 d6 8 a3 O-O 9 Nc3 Nb8 10 a4 b4 11 Nd5 Nxd5 12 Bxd5 c6 13 Bb3 Nd7 14 Be3 Bb7?!15 a5! d5 16 d4! dxe4 17 Nxe5 Nf6 18 Qe2?! Qc7 19 Bf4 Bd6 20 Bg3 c5 21 c3 Rac8 22 Rfd1 g6? 23 Qe3! cxd4 24 cxd4 Nd5 25 Qh6 Qe7 26 Re1 f5 27 f3 Bxe5 28 Bxe5 exf3 29 gxf3 Rfe8 30 Rac1 Qf8 31 Qg5! Qf7 32 Kf2 h5 33 Bd6 Rxe1 34 Rxe1 Re8 35 Rc1! Re6 36 Bxd5 Bxd5 37 Rc8+ Re8 38 Rc7 Qe6 39 Be5 Rc8 40 Rg7+ Kf8 41 Qh6 Rc2+ 42 Kg1 1-0
3496 1 Kc3 Kd5 2 Kd3 Kc5 3 Ke4 Kc4 4 Rc6 mate.
Arsenal fans riled by the Groundhog Day repetitions of the past few years have at least been treated to something more immediate before Saturday’s FA Cup final against Chelsea. Faced with the prospect of another tangle with Diego Costa, Arsenal’s centre-backs have been cutting straight to the chase. Shkodran Mustafi is concussed. Laurent Koscielny has been sent off and banned. Gabriel got in there early with his injured knee. Entering the Diego Zone? They are way ahead of you.
Arsenal have generally seen the best and the worst of Costa during three seasons of mischief and fury in the Premier League, a centre-forward who does not so much play on the edge as appear at times to be completely unaware the edge exists in the first place. Even at full strength, successive Wenger-issue centre-halves have been bruised and bullied through a head-to-head record of three kidney-punching defeats and a single, ultimately fruitless, victory last September, the 3-0 win at the Emirates that acted as a spark for Chelsea’s title charge.
Even when Costa does not score he has tended to dominate these occasions. As he did most memorably while reeling in Gabriel at Stamford Bridge last season, Arsenal’s Brazilian sent off for retaliating to provocation and left wandering off in tears, gulping for air, like a prize trout hooked, landed and ready to be put out of his misery against the harbour wall.
Most recently Costa was involved in all three Chelsea goals in the 3-1 win at Stamford Bridge in February, the last of them a kind of “scare-assist”, as Costa ran towards Petr Cech more in hope then expectation. Spooked, Cech panicked and scuffed the ball straight to Cesc Fàbregas.
Chuck in the chance this could yet turn into a bravura farewell for Chelsea’s chief goal-sicario, and it is hard not to fear for a slightly makeshift Arsenal backline. Per Mertesacker has made six starts in the league since he was traumatised by Costa at the Emirates a year and a half ago. Mertesacker could yet find himself wheeled out from the start at the heart of a four-man defence.
Alongside him the promising Rob Holding will come into the game as yet unharmed by the ogre of Stamford Bridge. Holding made a fine show of keeping the similarly powerful Romelu Lukaku quiet last weekend. Costa, though, is a challenge unlike any other, the most brutally effective, emotionally and physically bruising forward player of the past three seasons.
For how much longer though? Talk of a move to Tianjin Quanjian in the summer has eased off a little in the past week, with the Chinese club making a few pursed and pointed comments about not being asked to pay “premium prices” by European agents (China, meet Jorge. Jorge, China).
Costa has seemed a little restless for a while. He is a high-mileage battering ram these days, those twanging hamstrings wrenched through four league title races across five hard seasons in Spain and England. Costa’s rise from Brazil’s small-town interior has its own improbable qualities. It is not hard to see how he might be tempted by the chance to enrich himself even further on another new frontier.
One thing is certain. If Wembley really is the end for Costa after two league titles, 57 goals, almost 400 fouls and a relentlessly shrill concatenation of outrage, he could not have chosen a better opponent. For Arsenal Costa is not just a menace. He is also the one that got away, a failure of recruitment made all the more galling by the fact no player in the league embodies better what this mannered, orderly late-Wenger team have needed.
Arsenal first tried to sign Costa in the summer of 2013. A £30m-plus buyout clause put them off. Yaya Sanogo arrived instead. Nicklas Bendtner was retained for another year. More recently Costa’s price tag has been spent on Danny Welbeck and Lucas Pérez combined, arguably the definition of a false economy. There is a fair chance Arsenal would have won the league at least once in the past three years had Costa come to the Emirates, bringing with him what this team have palpably lacked, a little raggedness, a little of that horrible, needling street-warrior spirit.
And not just that either. One reason Chelsea may want to hang on to Costa is the difficulty of replacing his all-round game. For all his theatricality Costa is also a wonderful footballer. His movement is exceptional, not only in sniffing out the kind of goalscoring spaces that set Fàbregas’s radar twitching but in his ability to sprint long distances, carry the ball, hound defenders and generally pull his team forward in his wake.
A feature of Chelsea in the Costa years has been the spectacle of their lone centre-forward scrabbling about surrounded with the ball at his feet, and scoring exactly the kind of breakaway goal that turned the 3-1 win at Manchester City last December, where Costa produced arguably the outstanding individual attacking performance of the domestic season.
He is a gladiator in these moments and a relentless contributor to the cause. No other centre-forward has made anywhere near as many dribbles. No player at a top-six club has had as many crosses and shots or made anywhere near as many clearances, or laid on more assists than Costa’s seven while playing as a centre-forward.
Plus there is the strange dark energy that distinguishes Costa not only from his more mannered opponents at Wembley but from your average home-reared Premier League player. This is a man who was not formally coached until he was 16, who learned to play on scrubland, who worked in his uncle’s shop into his late teens, and who was nicknamed “that fucking Brazilian” for his pranks, high spirits and all-round ragged behaviour as a young man at Albacete. Plenty of rough edges but there is no comfort zone here.
Albeit, there is plenty that is undesirable too. “Diego likes to cheat a lot,” Kurt Zouma said on TV after that defeat of Arsenal at Stamford Bridge last year, a statement Zouma later clarified through club channels by pointing out what he really meant to say was: “Diego is a player who puts pressure on his opponents.” You can say that again, Kurt.
Costa can be horrible, always seeking out the tender spot, play-acting, niggling and often crossing the line into gracelessness. At times this can distract his own team. At others it can be more controlled. It was Costa who led Chelsea to the 2-2 draw with Tottenham last summer that decided the title in a match marked out by Mark Clattenburg booking 12 players but not, incredibly, Costa, who had an unseen hand in at least five of those cards.
As Chelsea’s master of unease prepares for what could be a valedictory Wembley final his value is clear enough, a player whose presence would surely have improved every other team in the league over the past three years. Not least his favourite opponents, a patched-up Arsenal backline who will once again gird themselves for entry into the Diego Zone.
Manchester City have signed Monaco’s Bernardo Silva in a £43.6m deal. The midfielder has agreed a five-year contract with the Premier League side to kickstart Pep Guardiola’s overhaul of a squad that finished last season without a trophy.
The Catalan was determined to move swiftly in the transfer market this summer after his team finished third in the Premier League and failed in their pursuit of the two domestic cups and the Champions League.
Guardiola had earmarked the 22-year-old Monaco midfielder as one of his top targets and the two clubs reached an agreement on Friday, with the player having travelled to Manchester for a medical.
Silva, who will wear the No20 shirt, told City’s website: “It feels great. To be honest I’m now at one of the best teams in the world. To be part of this club and to have this opportunity is great.
“I’m very happy to be part of City’s team and I look forward to trying to do my best to help the team reach their goals. Of course when you have the opportunity of being trained by Guardiola, you don’t say no. If not the best coach in the world, he is one of the best.
The Portuguese added: “What he did in Barcelona and Bayern Munich was amazing and we expect also here that he will win titles. It’s great to be working with him and to have this opportunity.”
Silva, who has 15 caps for Portugal after making his debut against Cape Verde in March 2015, joined Monaco on a permanent deal in the summer of that year having spent the previous season on loan there from Benfica.
The playmaker missed Portugal’s Euro 2016 triumph through injury but has been instrumental in Monaco’s title win this season, as well as their progress in the Champions League, where they eliminated Manchester City before losing to Juventus in the semi-finals. In the French league in 2016-17 Silva played 37 games, scored eight goals and provided nine assists.
On Thursday City confirmed the departures of Jesús Navas, Gaël Clichy, Willy Caballero and Bacary Sagna with Guardiola set for an upgrade of the squad he inherited last summer. All four players were out of contract this summer. A number of other players out on loan could also move on, including Samir Nasri, Joe Hart, Eliaquim Mangala and Wilfried Bony.
The list of famous Devonians, from Scott of the Antarctic and Sir Walter Raleigh to Agatha Christie and Coldplay’s Chris Martin, is an eclectic one. Until now heroic athletes – apart from sailors and Argyle footballers – have been in shorter supply. Not since the Tavistock-born Sir Francis Drake played bowls on Plymouth Hoe before defeating the Spanish Armada in 1588 have there been many more evocative local sporting yarns than Exeter Chiefs’ buccaneering ride to Twickenham.
It is seven years this week that Exeter made it out of the Championship to the Premiership; there remains a decent Hollywood movie in their ascent from the old tumbledown County Ground to the top of the domestic game. One more push and for the first time in the history of England’s leading professional team sports – whether it be cricket’s county championship, Premier League football or elite rugby – a team from the south-west peninsula will be national champions.
Making this the best of western weekends – with Exeter City and Cornwall playing at Wembley and Twickenham respectively on Sunday – will not be straightforward. Wasps have a fizzing abundance of champagne talent behind the scrum and Twickenham in mid-afternoon will be almost hot enough to toast marshmallows. The Chiefs, though, are entirely unfazed by the forecast warmth. “We’ll deal with the weather fine,” said Rob Baxter’s dryly. “Twenty-six or 27 degrees is nothing unusual here. Most of the boys, especially the Cornish, are a little concerned about the potential temperature drop-off.”
Many a true word spoken in jest. The Chiefs are fitter than anyone, partly courtesy of pre-season sessions on Exmouth beach under ex-Marine training instructors. They also think smarter than most. The assistant coach Ali Hepher has been studying baseball and cricket to help his squad find an extra edge; just as certain pitchers fare better against certain batters, so Exeter take similar factors into account when selecting their pack. For all Baxter’s huge influence and farmer’s emphasis on hard work and sound planning, his lieutenants are also unusually sharp.
It was evident as far back as 2010, for those who cared to notice. In the play-off final, the plan was to lure an unsuspecting Bristol into believing a 9-6 first-leg deficit would be easily overhauled at the Memorial Ground. Exeter had an alternative script worked out having noted, among other things, that Bristol’s hooker regularly threw the ball in from inside the touchline. The referee was quietly advised, the home lineout froze, the penalty count soared and the tactically-cute Chiefs romped to a 29-10 away win.
Is that remotely relevant now? Survivors from those early days, such as fly-half and captain Gareth Steenson who scored all but five of his side’s points on that momentous evening, reckon it might be: “Speaking to a couple of others who were involved, the feeling we had after the first leg was very similar to how we felt after last weekend’s semi-final against Saracens. Now we just want to make sure we finish the job off. The last thing you want to do is go there and not do yourself justice.”
Steenson, still going strong alongside fellow “originals’ Phil Dollman and Ben Moon, epitomises the work-hard, play-hard Chiefs ethos. Forced to leave his native Ulster to escape the shadow of David Humphreys, his roundabout career path via Rotherham and Cornish Pirates meant he did not make his Premiership debut until the age of 26. People who focus only on the accuracy of his kicking and the fully stocked bar (complete with Guinness on tap) in his garage are missing the relentless competitiveness that galvanises those around him. “I’ve played with a lot of 10s and without any doubt Steeno’s one of the best at driving home what a team wants,” says Geoff Parling, who shared a dressing-room with Jonny Wilkinson for several years. “He’s sort of ingrained in how we play. Fly-halves have to be mentally strong and really boss the show. That’s what he does.”
The experienced Parling, due to leave Sandy Park this summer to play in Japan and Australia, also singles out a key difference between the Chiefs of 2017 and the side beaten 28-20 by Saracens in the 2016 final having trailed 23-6 at half-time: “The thing I noticed when I joined was that we still needed a bit of belief. I honestly think that’s the main reason a team wins or loses.” The mindset is very different now, much to Parling’s satisfaction. “If we get to a final and lose it will feel awful. Did we have that a year ago? Probably not. I got frustrated afterwards. The fans were happy because it had been a good season but I went home a bit miserable because we hadn’t won anything. This time we’re going there to win.”
The former England and Lions lock, a title winner with Leicester in 2010, is now on the verge of joining the rare bunch who have won Premiership titles with more than one club. He may come from the north-east while Don Armand, Kai Horstmann, Dave Dennis, Mitch Lees and Thomas Waldrom hail from the southern hemisphere but when Exeter’s maul is inching towards the opposing try-line the cohesion is formidable. If Wasps, minus the injured Kurtley Beale, are to win they will first have to stop the Chiefs’ pack from driving them to distraction.
Wasps have their own danger men but it is Exeter’s collective energy that sets them apart. Last year, the Chiefs’ were unnerved by the remarkable reception they received at Twickenham, with spectators banging on the sides of the bus to reinforce their unconditional love. This time they will try to ignore the loftiness of the occasion and, if possible, all the west country support. “That’s not what I want the players focusing on,” said Baxter. “I genuinely want them focusing on themselves – what they want to achieve as individuals and as a team. If their hard work, dedication and desire merits them coming away with something they can talk about as a group for the rest of their lives, that’s what’s important.”
If it also shreds a few old apple-cheeked Devonian stereotypes along the way, so much the better. Since when does romance win trophies? Just as farming is not all dancing cows and fragrant hay, so rugby is not a game for distracted dreamers. The fabulous Baxter boys still have a tough 80 minutes before them. But if the cream does rise to the top – and the Chiefs could end up winning by more than one score – the sense of pride out west will last indefinitely.
Granit Xhaka’s father, Ragip, heard the knock at his front door. The year was 1986, the setting Kosovo – then an autonomous province in Yugoslavia – and he was about to live an ordeal most people could barely comprehend.
When Xhaka Sr opened up, he came face to face with police officers. They arrested him and he was taken to jail, where he would spend the next three and a half years. He shared a cell with four other men and he would be let out once each day – for 10 minutes.
Ragip Xhaka was 22 years old, a university student in Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, and his crime had been to participate in demonstrations against the communist central government in Belgrade. He wanted democracy and freedom. He paid a heavy price for his beliefs.
“It’s true that my father was imprisoned for three and a half years and it was because he stood up for what he believed in,” Xhaka, the Arsenal midfielder, told Blick in 2014. “It’s not a taboo subject in our household. We talk about it. After all, I want to know what happened.”
Xhaka has learned that his father was freed in 1990, abruptly and without any real explanation. It was thanks, in large part, to Amnesty International, which was committed to supporting political prisoners, and the organisation would help Ragip and his wife, Eli, move to Switzerland in the summer of that year. Their first son, Taulant, was born in Basel in 1991 and Granit would follow 18 months later.
Apart from those few sentences to Blick, Xhaka has not said much in public about what his father went through. But it is clear he feels the same fire inside, the same guiding sense of loyalty and single-mindedness. It will continue to drive him in Saturday’s FA Cup final against Chelsea. “I can’t stand people who are backward,” he said. “I am honest, straightforward. I don’t like to pretend. And I will not change either.”
Xhaka has poured the courage of his convictions into the challenge at Arsenal. It has not been smooth sailing since his £35m transfer from Borussia Mönchengladbach last summer and his mistakes have been picked over remorselessly. The red cards he received in the home Premier League fixtures against Swansea City in October and Burnley in January have stained like indelible ink.
Arsène Wenger even suggested in March that Xhaka had become a marked man in the eyes of referees – “a victim a little bit of his reputation,” as the Arsenal manager put it – and there have been 11 additional yellow cards to reinforce the impression.
Xhaka has been startled by the strictness of the Premier League’s referees. Weren’t they supposed to let more go in England – the home of physical football? Privately, he feels that it was more of a man’s game in the Bundesliga.
The Swansea sending off was a case in point. The chop on Modou Barrow was cynical but the winger was not in an overly dangerous position and Xhaka clearly thought he would take the yellow card and regroup. There was surprise when the referee, Jon Moss, reached for the red. “It was a dark yellow and the referee went for bright red,” Wenger said.
For Xhaka it has been a question of adapting and he is hardly the first overseas player to experience difficulties. For example, his Arsenal team-mate Laurent Koscielny received two red cards and 10 yellows in his first season at the Emirates Stadium, after his move from Lorient. His reputation did not seem to take the same beating.
Wenger’s comments after Xhaka’s dismissal against Burnley – for a lunge at Steven Defour – did not help. He talked about “a lack of control” in Xhaka’s tackling and added he “would encourage him not to tackle, and to stay on his feet”. Xhaka did not help himself when, after his return from suspension, he was booked in five consecutive matches. The narrative became entrenched. Xhaka was a bit of a liability and, when that happens, it is not only damaging but difficult to overwrite.
Xhaka has stayed strong. The 24-year-old has listened to Wenger, because he came to Arsenal to learn from him, and he has compartmentalised the criticism from elsewhere. “It doesn’t trouble me at all – nobody trips me up that easily,” Xhaka told Blick in March this year. “What annoys me are the people who call me dirty, stupid and brainless. Those kind of words you don’t use about someone you don’t know.
“Aggression is a part of my game and when someone takes that away, I am not the same any more. I have analysed my red cards very closely and I have also seen that a lot of my fouls happen in the opposition half, which is too far away from our goal. That must stop. But I am not going on to the pitch to pull out of a tackle.”
It is probably fair to say Arsenal fans do not know Xhaka as a person. Perhaps, if he had been able to give an in-depth interview in England, there would be a stronger connection, with greater scope for empathy. But those who do know him talk about a man willing to fight until the last for his family and his employer; for the things that he believes in. And he has always found the way to succeed.
“He is a fighter,” Rainer Bonhof, a World Cup-winning midfielder with West Germany in 1974 and vice-president of Mönchengladbach, told the Guardian. “When he came to Gladbach from Basel [in 2012], he couldn’t get the opportunities to play in his first season but he needed time to adapt to the rhythm of the Bundesliga. He did adapt and he became the leader of the team.
“He is always quickly done with any setbacks and is able to concentrate on the next match. It is part of what makes him a little bit different to anybody else. If you remember, Mesut Özil, Per Mertesacker and Lukas Podolski at Arsenal – they took a couple of months or a half-year to accept English football and the style of it. I think, for sure, you will see there is a lot more coming from Granit.”
Bonhof describes Xhaka as somebody who “plays on the edge” but he marvels at his composure on the ball and, particularly, the range, vision and laser-beam accuracy of his passing. If anybody is well qualified to discuss this, it is Bonhof, a great technician, and it feels as though one statistic posted by Xhaka this season has drifted under the radar. He has made 2,055 successful passes. Only one Premier League player – Chelsea’s César Azpilicueta – has completed more.
Xhaka is a ball-playing No8 rather than a destructive No6 and he was never going to be the answer to Arsenal’s long-time problem position in defensive midfield. Comparisons have been made with N’Golo Kanté, who also made a big move last summer; he went to Chelsea from Leicester City and helped them win the title. But they are different types of midfielder and Xhaka cannot be responsible for the balance of the Arsenal team. That is Wenger’s domain. What can be said is that Xhaka has enjoyed himself in the recently implemented 3-4-2-1 system and he takes some form into the Cup final.
When Xhaka’s story is told, the subject of his nationality is central. He declared for Switzerland and is proud to represent the country of his birth but he is equally proud of his Kosovo-Albanian heritage. What has complicated matters is the fact that his brother, Taulant, who plays for Basel, made the decision to declare for Albania. Xhaka felt compelled to write an open letter to the people of Kosovo to explain why he chose Switzerland.
“I have a good relationship with the Albanian fans,” Xhaka has said. “But when you are called a traitor – that is such a harsh word. Most of the Albanian fans respect me. But traitor is unacceptable considering the background of my family.”
Xhaka’s destiny has led him to Wembley and he might reflect on Wenger’s sales pitch to him, when the manager first tried to push the merits of a move to Arsenal. According to Xhaka, Wenger said: “If you want to go to paradise, come to us.” It has not quite worked out like that, given the trails and tribulations of a wild season, but Xhaka believes it could yet finish on a high.
The ABC has defended its decision to use Sydney FC’s friendly with Liverpool to broadcast “a different offering” to football fans after its coverage of the match was roundly criticised by fans and fellow broadcasters.
The show on ABC2 on Wednesday night was described by some viewers as cringeworthy and embarrassing on social media, and even as “a train wreck” by one of its hosts, Jules Schiller.
Schiller used his radio show on Thursday evening to explain the thinking behind the decision to use comedians to introduce the game – getting more “eyeballs” on the sport and engaging with youngsters who might play the game at school but are not being converted into A-League fans.
Pre-game, half-time & post-game coverage wasn't to standard expected by @FFA & football fans. We've made that point to ABC management. (2/2)
Who thought this was a good idea at FFA!This is is unforgivable and I and every supporter of our game would like an answer ! #LIVSYD
How does ABC get coverage for Sydney Fc vs Liverpool and have hosts who don't even know anything about football!?!? #livsyd #RedsInSydney
Love my Reds but this Liverpool v Sydney FC pregame show on the ABC is an absolute shocker. #lfc #sfc
Schiller said he had just been trying to do the best he could to promote the game “with little resources”. But he also expressed his disappointment at how fans had turned on him and his fellow hosts, saying some of the angrier responses were “just a little unfair”.
“This was something the ABC picked up quite quickly,” he said on ABC Radio Adelaide. “There wasn’t a lot of prep time for this. The ABC thought it was a game worth broadcasting. I’m not sure if you would have had a FTA [free-to-air] broadcaster if they hadn’t done it.”
Schiller pointed out several “technical issues” he had to contend with on the live broadcast, including the loud speakers in the stadium, which made communication with his producers and other panellists difficult.
“It’s like trying to land a plane in the dark without your instruments,” he said. “You’re just massaging the joystick and you’re just hoping for the best.”
The program, also hosted by Tegan Higginbotham and Steen Raskopoulos, may have impacted the public broadcaster’s chances of winning the A-League’s free-to-air rights with Football Federation Australia expressing its disappointment in the quality of the coverage.
The trio of hosts mispronounced names and used a tacky whiteboard with cutouts of players in lieu of formation graphics. At half-time, they crossed live to comedian Aaron Chen, who conducted a peculiar interview with Sky Blues fans, asking one to name his favourite “possession” before snatching back the microphone and exclaiming “I’ve been possessed with the spirit of football”.
The effort drew a deluge of online criticism, led by former Socceroo and current Fox Sports pundit Robbie Slater, who tweeted it was “unforgivable” for the game to be “bagged and disrespected” in front of a global audience.
Schiller said: “The bizarre thing is that, even though, yes, there were some big problems with the broadcast, it wasn’t a vital game and it’s got attention and Aaron Chen is engaging with exactly the sort of audience [the A-League and FFA] are looking to bring across.
“Next time someone does something positive and funny about football … maybe put down your baseball bats and nooses, back the lynch mob off and let football enjoy itself, even if it is a little bit of a train wreck like last night. Give us a bad review, but cut out the anger, the personal insults and the theatricality.”
The ABC also responded on Thursday, stressing it was proud to have broadcast the ANZ Stadium friendly at very short notice.
“While the game coverage and commentary was excellent, our decision to create a different offering for the pre-game, half-time and post-game coverage was not supported by all football fans and we will consider this feedback for any future sporting events,” an ABC spokesperson said in a statement.
It could be too late if the broadcaster had hoped to show the A-League next season. FFA is still hunting a free-to-air partner to supplement its its six-year, $346m A-League TV deal with Fox Sports.
Although the ABC had not been top of the pecking order, it is understood Wednesday night’s approach has ruled it out of calculations, despite its excellent W-League coverage.
It may be Sorry Day but John McGuire won’t be receiving an apology. Not from the Western Australia Cricket Association and not from the men he played against. “There wasn’t a match I wasn’t racially abused in when I went out to bat,” McGuire says, reflecting on the record 10,000-plus runs he scored in Perth first-grade cricket.
A Balladong man of the Nyoongar language group in south-west Western Australia, McGuire was on the cusp of state selection several times during his career. But there always seemed to be an excuse not to pick him. “I was too slow or too fast, or too young or too old,” he says. “But I know it came down to the colour of my skin.
In the mid-1980s, he was closer than ever to snaring that elusive baggy gold cap. A powerful lefthander who could drive on the up like his childhood hero Clive Lloyd, McGuire was in fine form at the state trials.
Opening the batting with Graeme Wood, and facing a virtual Test attack in Bruce Reid, Chris Matthews, Ken MacLeay and Tom Hogan, he raced to 57 at drinks. He was in such good nick, he alleges a selector told him to retire his innings, on the understanding, McGuire thought, that he’d made the Shield side.
“They’d liked what I’d done at the crease, and I was happy,” he recalls. His confidence was misplaced. In the McGillivray Oval dressing room at the end of play on the second day, team-mate Peter Clough told him he’d see him tomorrow for the train-on squad. “What train-on squad?” McGuire asked.
Clough looked surprised. “What, haven’t you been asked?” Then he swore.
More than 30 years later, the incident still jars with Clough, now a WA bowling coach. “I was just hoping he wasn’t picked because of form and nothing else,” he says. “I still struggle to this day to see how John wasn’t chosen for the side. He was a class batsman.”
McGuire is certain of the selectors’ motives. “They’d retired me early because they knew if I had gone on to score a century they would have had no choice but to pick me.”
He says news of selection was relayed individually to avoid omitting him in front of team-mates. It was part of a depressing pattern of unspoken rejection McGuire calls the “subtleties of exclusion”.
Of course, events from more than 30 years ago will always be open to interpretation and many players and officials from that era offer different reasons for McGuire’s continuing omission.
Daryl Foster was the WA coach. Under his tutelage, the Sandgropers won nine Sheffield Shields. Now 79, Foster can’t recall the trial game but says McGuire was a “very fine player who had no technical deficiencies, but was born in the wrong era”, an era when WA was the dominant force in Australian cricket and produced Test openers Wood, Bruce Laird, Mike Veletta and Geoff Marsh.
On the face of it, it’s a compelling argument, backed by former Australian captain Kim Hughes, who notes that Test cricketers played Shield regularly back then, reducing even further opportunities for fringe players. (Positions did, however, open up during World Series Cricket and the rebel tours of South Africa.)
Indeed grade cricket Australia-wide is littered with quality club players who never made it to first-class level. But of the 24 men who’ve plundered more than 7,000 runs in Perth club cricket only one failed to break into the state side: John McGuire.
Was it bad luck, or was he the victim of an institutionalised form of racism, bigger than any player, coach or selector?
Richard Walley formed the Metropolitan Aboriginal Cricket Association in Perth in the late 1970s to give young men the chance to play a game still very much linked with Anglo Australia. Despite the racial discrimination act of 1975, he says racism was a feature of every day life. “It was pretty thick with it back then. You would still get refused entry to pubs and restaurants or even taxis.”
That racism extended to the pitch. Idris Evans opened the batting with McGuire at Mt Lawley District Cricket Club for more than a decade. He remembers McGuire’s tenacity at the crease, a fierceness that saw him claim the club’s leading scorer award 11 times as Mt Lawley bagged four premierships in the 1980s.
He also remembers the impact racial sledging had on McGuire. “Once when we were batting he was called a ‘coconut’. I didn’t realise what it meant at the time. In his own way, he went off his tree about that. Not much would rile him but that did.”
McGuire knew he had to keep a lid on his emotions at the crease. To erupt would give the powers-that-be yet another reason not to pick him. “That’s one of the worst things you can say to an Aboriginal, but I was called much worse,” he says. “I was called a black cunt so many times.”
Foster concedes attitudes were different in the 1970s – “People could say things like Chinks and reffos and it was accepted” – and that more could have been done at the top level to nurture Aboriginal players, but is adamant race never played a part in the coaching or selection process. “I never came across anything like that. I feel sad John feels that way and that he says those thing happened to him in grade cricket. If he’d played now he’d definitely be selected for WA.”
What particularly galls McGuire is that he has an impeccable cricket pedigree. His great-grandfather John Blurton was a member of the famous New Norcia “Invincibles” side that conquered Perth’s best in the 1870s and 1880s. He attended Guildford Grammar on a scholarship, the same elite school that spawned Test cricketers Tom Moody and Brendon Julian. That he wasn’t cricketing blue blood could not be held against him. “I went to the right school and learnt to play the elite way, like a gentleman. Toffee-nose and all that. I had the runs and the background … but I didn’t have the right skin colour.”
If he is still bitter about his treatment, it doesn’t surprise Evans: “I can understand how he feels and why he’ll take it to his grave.”
“I just would have liked one opportunity,” McGuire, now 62, and a member of the National Indigenous Cricket Advisory Committee, says. “Then if I failed I could have said: ‘Well, I had my go, gave it my best shot and didn’t make it’.”
Does he feels he deserves an official apology? McGuire isn’t so sure. “It wouldn’t change anything,” he says. “The best thing is to make sure what happened to me doesn’t happen to the next generations of Aboriginal cricketers. Make sure their pathways aren’t blocked so that Aboriginal people in the outback have just as much chance of playing for Australia as anyone else.”
The Waca declined to comment on McGuire’s story.
Margaret Court is one of tennis’ “greatest greats” and the arena named after her should recognise that, not her opposition to gay marriage, the prime minister says.
Court this week announced she will stop using Qantas “where possible” in protest at the airline’s promotion of same-sex marriage.
“Whatever people may think about Margaret Court’s views about gay marriage …she is one of the all-time greats and the Margaret Court Arena celebrates Margaret Court the tennis player,” Malcolm Turnbull told 3AW on Friday.
“She’s one of the greatest greats of tennis and that’s why the arena is named after her.”
Australian player Casey Dellacqua tweeted how fed up she was with Court after her family was targeted for criticism by the tennis great.
“Margaret. Enough is enough,” Dellacqua tweeted on Friday, posting a photo of a letter from Court published in the West Australian in 2013.
Margaret. Enough is enough. pic.twitter.com/Cl1DtC4aSL
In the letter, 74-year-old Court laments the birth of Dellacqua’s child in a same-sex relationship.
“It is with sadness that I see that this baby has seemingly been deprived of a father,” Court, a Christian pastor, wrote.
Dellacqua is in France and has progressed to the doubles semi-finals of the WTA event in Strasbourg with compatriot Ashleigh Barty.
Court has been a critic of homosexuality and same-sex marriage for decades.
Retired tennis player Martina Navratilova has called for Melbourne’s Margaret Court Arena to be renamed, while Tennis Australia said Court’s views on gay rights do not align with the governing body’s.
The operators of Melbourne and Olympic Parks used the Margaret Court Arena twitter account on Thursday to say they do not support her stance.
Ivan Hinton-Teoh, spokesman for marriage equality group Just.equal said: “Margaret Court is entitled to express her views on marriage equality, as are people who believe these views are damaging and outdated. We welcome confirmation overnight that both Tennis Australia and Melbourne and Olympic Parks that manage the arena support equality.
“If Margaret Court is serious about boycotting businesses that support equality she has a decision to make about whether she wants her name to remain on a building that stands for equality, diversity and inclusion. The ball is in her court.”
Wilfried Zaha has ended speculation over his future by signing a new five-year deal with Crystal Palace.
The Ivory Coast winger has committed to Palace despite interest from Tottenham Hotspur after helping the club win their relegation battle. After putting pen to paper on the new contract, the 24-year-old told the club’s website: “Palace is in my heart and I don’t think the story is over.”
His performances last season had caught the eye of Mauricio Pochettino, the Tottenham manager, while Arsenal and Manchester City were also believed to have made contact with his representatives in recent weeks. Steve Parish, the Palace chairman, insisted last month he was intent on resisting all offers for the former youth academy product who was purchased from Manchester United in 2015 after moving to Old Trafford in 2012 for £10m.
Zaha added: “I spoke with Steve [Parish] and I think I still have more to give this club. The supporters have been amazing and I want us to do more than just stay in the league next year. I would like to thank the chairman for being a big part of my journey and his fellow owners for backing me and rewarding my progression. Let’s do this!”
Parish said: “Wilf has been with the club since he was eight years old and in the first team from the day I arrived. He is our talisman and someone that week in, week out gives everything for the Red and Blue. I’m delighted he has committed his future to us and look forward to climbing up the table with him next year.”
The new contract, believed to be worth £110,000 a week, brings Zaha into line with the club’s best-paid player, Christian Benteke.
Boris Becker has questioned whether Andy Murray will have enough time to strike up a winning rhythm with Ivan Lendl at the French Open, which starts on Sunday, but says reduced expectations at Roland Garros might help the Scot at Wimbledon, where he is champion.
Becker, who reached the semi-finals in Paris three times, said of Lendl’s late arrival before the second slam of the season: “That is their arrangement. That is what worked last year. That was part of the deal but I think, if both were honest, the gap between Melbourne and the French was maybe a little long.
“Even though he hasn’t played great on clay, he’s still the No1 player in the world. He hasn’t forgotten how to play tennis. He just needs a couple of wins to get his confidence back.”
Of Murray’s ordinary season so far, he added: “I understand his struggles. I hope he rediscovers the form which made him so great last year. Obviously clay is not his best surface but I hope he is going to win at least a couple of matches just to be ready for the grass. That is his signature: Queen’s and Wimbledon. But it all starts with the first round in Paris.”
While scrutiny on Novak Djokovic and his new coaching experiment with Andre Agassi has been intense, less has been said outside Britain about Murray’s low-key performances on clay.
Becker, speaking at the announcement that the rebranded Nitto ATP Finals will stay at the O2 in London until 2020, observed: “Maybe it plays in Andy’s favour now that no one talks about him at the French; maybe it gives him more comfort. I hope so. I like him. I want him to do well.”
Becker nevertheless ranks Djokovic above Murray in challenging the in-form Rafael Nadal, who is in sight of his 10th French Open and has a 17-1 record on clay this year.
“[Nadal] is the favourite but I would include Novak as well. I thought he showed signs of last year’s form in Rome. Behind them I think there is a group of young players – [Alexander] Zverev, [Dominic] Thiem.”
Since Murray lost to Djokovic in last year’s French final, then supplanted him at the top of the world rankings, the life-long rivals have endured alternating highs and lows.
Djokovic, who parted with his experienced coaching staff this month, confirmed on Sunday that Agassi will be in his box, but “for a few matches” while each of them sees if it works.
Becker, who guided Djokovic to six slams in their three years together until December, described Agassi’s appointment as “a good choice” but, as with his reservations about Lendl and Murray, questions the brief lead-in they will have together.
“When I first was asked to work for Novak [in 2013], the original idea was the grand slams only, and I said: ‘I don’t think that is possible. I have to see you more than just a couple of days before grand slams to know where you are. I have to know the ups and downs and really get to know you in lesser tournaments.’
“So I told him: ‘If I am going to do that, I have to be with you more.’”
It was actually David Luiz who had first volunteered the word “risk” in relation to his return to Chelsea. He was on the turf at Stamford Bridge last Sunday conducting a post-match interview in French with William Gallas, his team-mates’ title-winning celebrations crackling all around and a Premier League winner’s medal round his neck, when it cropped up in passing as he lingered, momentarily, on the life he had left behind at Paris Saint-Germain.
The theme was revisited in a stuffy media tent at the champions’ Cobham training base on Thursday but whereas the Brazilian had addressed Gallas through a beaming smile, this time his response bordered on the prickly. Probably with good reason. Why did he consider his return to Chelsea to be a risk? “You know,” he snapped back, albeit through a smile that hinted at disbelief. “If you want me to be honest, be honest with me. Of course, you know. I was winning everything in Paris. I was there for two years and won all the titles in France. I had a great life, great credibility with the club … I had everything.
“But then I took a risk to come back to the one country that was not that happy with me. Where they always criticised me a lot even after winning the Champions League, the Europa League or where I’d played all the games. That’s why it was a risk. And I love the risk. If you don’t take risks in your life – in your professional life but also in everyday life – you never feel anything new, so I [chose to] taste something new. I don’t like to stay always with the easy life but I’m happy now because I took the right decision.”
There is no arguing with that. David Luiz is a natural born winner. Securing the Premier League means he has won the title in Portugal, France and England, to go with the Champions League and Europa League from that first three-and-a-half-year spell at Chelsea.
He boasts an FA Cup winner’s medal from 2012, despite sitting out the victory over Liverpool with a hamstring injury picked up in the semi-final – he would play the European Cup final against Bayern Munich in considerable pain but still end victorious – and goes into Saturday’s showpiece with Arsenal hoping to win another while influencing matters on the pitch.
The list of honours is startling and yet there had been incredulity when news filtered through late last August that the centre-half was returning from France. Therein lies the source of David Luiz’s frustration. Life at PSG may have been as comfortable as it was successful but the real risk was confronting the reception that was waiting back in England, where so many assumed he was the same entrancingly flamboyant but error-prone player who had departed for £48m in 2014. Antonio Conte had been scouring Serie A for solid, dependable types. The Brazilian’s reputation hardly fitted that mould.
Yet his displays this season have proved the watching world wrong. Admittedly, he has benefited in the middle of a three-man defence, where he can be the ball player with more rugged and safety-first team-mates at his side, but the anticipated litany of blunders has simply not materialised. These days the mistakes are so rare – there was one difficult afternoon at Old Trafford, when Marcus Rashford was in the mood, but precious few others – that they feel exceptional, which would explain his bristling at the regular reminders of failings first time round. “I heard a lot of bad things when he arrived, that he was ‘not a defender’,” Conte said. “But we were sure we were signing a really good player we could lift up again to be one of the best defenders in Europe and, I hope, in the world. He has good technique, he’s strong, he starts our possession and has the personality to do this.”
That spell in Paris did change him. The Brazilian was always highly motivated and competitive, and retains that joyful zest for life, but his game developed at PSG. He returned a more accomplished player and a more mature man, even if the wild celebrations of the past few days have brought flashes of the free-spirited David Luiz back into the public eye. Where once he tapped into a reputation as the joker in the dressing room, these days he considers himself one of the motivators; a leader. He has taken N’Golo Kanté under his wing, ensuring the quiet man in the Chelsea midfield is properly involved, part of the gang. They are an unlikely pair but the 30-year-old saw it as his responsibility to make the new man feel at home.
Similarly, where many at Chelsea once feared David Luiz’s focus was continually being drawn to a possible move to Barcelona, now he is settled, content and at ease with his surroundings. He has moved – not back to central London, where he used to own a penthouse flat overlooking Putney Bridge, but to sleepier Surrey. “And, if you want to know about the money, I cut my salary to come back here,” he said. “But it’s OK, God has given me a lot, so I’m happy with this. Did I come back different? Always the same question … I think I try to improve as a person, as a brother, as a son, as a friend every day.
“If you don’t think in this way, if you don’t want to learn, then one day everybody will pass you, so I try to improve every day. The day I arrived back here I spoke with Conte – a great person, a great character who is passionate and loves his football – and he tried to explain his philosophy to play football. He said to me: ‘You are the player I want in my team and to improve my team.’ So I said to him: ‘I’m going to work hard for you and for the team’ and that’s it. I’ve been working hard a lot since the beginning of my career and to play 10 years consecutively in big clubs is not easy, and I try to give my best every season.”
He has brought it to Chelsea. A team who had languished 10th in the division last term have carried all before them.
“So I am the magic, no? The difference?” the Brazilian at the heart of their defence said. “No, of course I’m not. Two years ago they also won this title. Last season was not a good season for Chelsea but this season, we have done great since the beginning – and not just because of me. Because of everybody. Because of the commitment, the desire, the mentality we put on the pitch every day. That’s why we deserve it.”
If his was a risky return, then his gamble has paid off handsomely.
Justin Holbrook could be forgiven for thinking life as a Super League coach is always this easy. There will be tougher times ahead for the new man in charge at St Helens, but this has been quite the seamless transition for the Australian as he begins the sizeable task of reviving the Saints’ fortunes.
Holbrook watched on last week as his new side produced the standout performance of Magic Weekend, beating Hull FC 45-0. His first official match could not have been much tougher – the rip-roarer that is rugby league’s greatest derby, St Helens against Wigan.
While, understandably, a lot of the traits which see Holbrook’s side languishing in mid-table halfway through the season remain, this was a game which, claimed right at the death courtesy of Mark Percival’s try, St Helens may not have won earlier this year.
“It was a tough old game,” Holbrook said. “I’m only new but I knew how big a game this was and I tried not to shy away from it. I knew how much it means to both clubs and for us to find a way to win, it was great.”
There have already been some marvellous games in Super League this year, but this surely ranks as one of the best to date. It was nerve-jangling and not settled until the full-time hooter. Wigan led 14-12 at half-time but ultimately their young side’s defensive efforts would prove in vain.
It is now four games without victory for the reigning Super League champions yet their coach, Shaun Wane, remains unperturbed about risking losing touch with the top four. “I’m chuffed with their efforts,” he said. “I’ve got half of my salary cap sat in the gym: we’ll be all right. But that’s one we could have, and should have, won.”
Wigan actually extended their lead to six points thanks to Joe Burgess’s second-half try and looked set to claim a priceless derby victory.
However, Percival’s first try, a wonderful piece of individual play, levelled the score at 18-18. Thomas Leuluai then gave Wigan a one-point lead with a drop goal before Percival kickstarted the Holbrook era with a bang.
St Helens Makinson; Swift, Percival, Morgan, Grace; Fages, Smith; Walmsley, Roby, Amor, Taia, Wilkin, Knowles. Interchange McCarthy-Scarsbrook, Douglas, Thompson, Lee. Tries Morgan, Taia, Percival 2. Goals Percival 3.
Wigan Tierney; Davies, Forsyth, Burgess, Marshall; Williams, Leuluai; Nuuausala, McIlorum, Sutton, Isa, Farrell, O’Loughlin. Interchange Field, Powell, Tautai, Wells. Tries Davies, Tierney, Burgess. Goals Williams 3. Drop goal Leuluai.
Referee P Bentham.
After restoring Chris Robshaw to the England captaincy for Sunday’s match against the Barbarians, albeit on a temporary, shared basis, Eddie Jones reeled off another of his motoring metaphors. “I don’t think he is the best bloke at being at the front of the bus but he is a very good bloke at being in the middle part of the bus ensuring the front works with the back.”
If that appears to be faint praise, make no mistake of the regard in which Jones now holds Robshaw. He calls him his “glue player” and while he stops short of admitting he has been proved wrong after describing Robshaw as “not outstanding in any area” in a newspaper column during the 2015 World Cup, he has long since been convinced of the flanker’s qualities.
“He is one of those players you don’t realise you miss as much until he is not there,” said Jones. “He works so hard off the ball and he does the things you don’t see. He gets back dives on that ball, gets into that breakdown and cleans it out. It is all the sort of non-glamorous work that he does and he is exceptional at it. And he has got such a good character, he is such a good bloke and I can’t say that more sincerely.”
In effect, Jones believes Robshaw is at his most effective as a foot soldier rather than a figurehead. He has been named co-captain along with George Ford for the end-of-season Barbarians fixture, meaning he will lead England out at Twickenham for the first time since the 2015 World Cup defeat by Australia. But any temptation to see it as Robshaw coming full circle should be resisted.
Jones was unequivocal that Dylan Hartley will be skipper for the Argentina tour and that Robshaw is not suited to the permanent captaincy. Instead, he makes a comparison with Richard Hill – now England’s team manager but their “silent assassin” in the 2003 World Cup-winning team and the one player Clive Woodward refused to drop.
“[After the World Cup] I went to watch him play closely, he was like a Richard Hill,” added Jones. “When he came back from his shoulder injury and played for Harlequins he has been absolutely superb. He has been terrific around these young guys. He knows they are biting at his heels but he gives them everything, he gives them all the knowledge, all the care and at the same time prepares diligently himself.”
Robshaw conceded that he did not expect to captain England again and acknowledged Jones had limited options in a side that includes himself, Ford, Mike Brown, Jonny May and Danny Care but also eight uncapped players as well as Ellis Genge and Charlie Ewels. He had no hesitations over accepting the offer, however.
“[I didn’t think I’d do it again] post World Cup, especially with Eddie and what he said about me early on,” said Robshaw. “But straight after that we had a good meeting and he let me know where I stood. I couldn’t be one of these guys to come in and mope around. I’ve been given a second chance, so to speak. There were some guys who weren’t as fortunate.”
Of the uncapped octet, two are in the back row with Robshaw – Sam Underhill and Josh Beaumont – while Jack Singleton, Will Collier and Nick Isiekwe also line up in the forwards. Alex Lozowksi and Sam James are in the centres while Nathan Earle is on the wing.
The Rugby Football Union has revealed there will be heightened security measures at the weekend for the Barbarians match and Saturday’s Premiership final between Wasps and Exeter in the wake of the Manchester terror attack.
Jones said: “I know we’re going to get some sort of report on security over the next couple of days. Everyone is concerned. We know the RFU and we know the police force or the army or whoever will look after security at the ground will be absolutely diligent in getting it right. Once we know the details we will give it to the players and their families so they have it to fall back on.”
15 Mike Brown (Harlequins, 60 caps)
14 Nathan Earle (Saracens, uncapped)
13 Sam James (Sale, uncapped)
12 Alex Lozowski (Saracens, uncapped)
11 Jonny May (Gloucester, 25)
10 George Ford (Bath, 35)
9 Danny Care (Harlequins, 71)
1 Ellis Genge (Leicester, 1)
2 Jack Singleton (Worcester, uncapped)
3 Will Collier (Harlequins, uncapped)
4 Charlie Ewels (Bath, 3)
5 Nick Isiekwe (Saracens, uncapped)
6 Chris Robshaw (Harlequins, 55)
7 Sam Underhill (Bath, uncapped)
8 Josh Beaumont (Sale, uncapped)
16 George McGuigan (Leicester, uncapped)
17 Ross Harrison (Sale, uncapped)
18 Jamal Ford-Robinson (Bristol, uncapped)
19 Will Spencer (Bath, uncapped)
20 Tom Curry (Sale, uncapped)
21 Mark Wilson (Newcastle, uncapped)
22 Richard Wigglesworth (Saracens, 27)
23 Mike Haley (Sale, uncapped)
Takashi Toritani’s iron-man reputation is intact after the Hanshin Tigers third baseman played one day after breaking his nose on a fastball to the face.
Toritani wore a black face guard when he came to the plate as a pinch hitter during the sixth inning of Thursday’s game against the Yomiuri Giants, buoyed by swells of applause from the home crowd at Koshien Stadium.
鉄人の魂を引き継ぐ男鳥谷敬 代打で登場 pic.twitter.com/MvCVt29s1q
The 35-year-old captain grounded out to third to end the inning, but the turn at bat extended his streak of 1,795 consecutive games played, the longest active streak in Nippon Professional Baseball and the second-longest in Japanese history.
Toritani’s appearance came one day after he was struck in the face by a 90mph fastball by Mitsuo Yoshikawa during the fifth inning of Wednesday’s game.
A stretcher was prepared but Toritani declined assistance and walked off the field on his own while holding his face with a towel. He was taken to a hospital in Hyogo for tests, where he was later diagnosed with a broken nose.
Yoshikawa apologized to Toritani for the errant pitch on Wednesday, Nikkan Sports reported.
Toritani, a six-time NPB All-Star and one of the league’s most popular players, is batting .295 with 18 RBIs in 43 games for the first-place Tigers.
Sir Alex Ferguson has praised Manchester’s unity in the wake of Monday’s terrorist attack and underlined the significance of United’s Europa League success over Ajax.
Manchester City and United have come together to pledge £1m to the We Love Manchester Emergency Fund on a day the city prepared to offer up a defiant message that it is open for business.
Both clubs pledged the sum to the fund which was set up to assist the families and dependants of the 22 people who died in the Manchester Arena terrorist attack, which also left 64 people injured, many of them critically.
Ferguson paid tribute to the victims and thinks his former side’s 2-0 victory over Ajax in the final of the Europa League may have helped to raise spirits during a desperate week.
He told Sky Sports News: “First of all, Manchester is a working class city and it has fantastic people there. They went through some difficult times in the past, they will get together because they’ve got a working class ethic about them and there’s a great unity there in the city.
“I think United gave the city a lift and I think that was what it was about. We’re all proud of them, it was a great achievement.”
While a number of sports have curtailed planned events in the wake of the Government’s decision to raise the national terror threat level to critical, organisers said Friday’s Great CityGames will go ahead as planned.
The former Olympic long jump champion Greg Rutherford backed the decision to stage the event which will take place in a temporary arena in Albert Square, the scene of Tuesday’s emotional vigil for those who were killed and injured in the attack.
Rutherford said: “After such a tragic and heinous event, I think it’s important that everybody comes together and shows it’s not going to stop people leading a normal life.
“That seems to be the overriding sense from everybody here. I think it’s wonderful that it’s still going ahead and I hope it will be a lovely tribute to those who lost their lives and those injured in the attack.
“I think it will be amazing to see the people come out and get behind the event, not just for the sport but to show they’re not going to let the terrorists win.”
Meanwhile, the Great Manchester Run will also take place on Sunday. More than 35,000 are scheduled to take part, with organisers saying they had to turn away thousands of new applications this week.
Few people see the proposed Conor McGregor-Floyd Mayweather fight as anything other than a money-making sideshow. But just in case anyone is on the fence, Mayweather’s former rival in the ring, Oscar De La Hoya, has written an open letter attacking the putative bout as a “farce” that will hurt boxing.
“To my fellow boxing fans, I write in the hopes that together we can protect the sport of boxing,” De La Hoya, who is now a promoter, wrote. “With each passing day, it looks more and more likely that the circus known as Floyd Mayweather v Conor McGregor will be coming to town in the near future. As undercard fights start to take form, athletic commissions give their blessings in exchange for millions of dollars, and the fighters start counting even more cash, one group will eventually be left to make sure this farce doesn’t occur – we, the fans, who are the lifeblood of our sport ... Our sport might not ever recover.”
De La Hoya’s company, Golden Boy, is promoting a fight between two of boxing’s biggest stars, Gennady Golovkin and Canelo Alvarez, in September and some believe if the Mayweather-McGregor fight does happen it could overshadow that bout.
“Now, I know critics will say that I’m only writing this letter because my company is promoting what will be the culmination of an outstanding boxing year when Canelo Alvarez takes on Gennady ‘GGG’ Golovkin in September, and I don’t want anything to distract attention away from that fight,” De La Hoya wrote. “But my interest is in the health of boxing as a whole. It always has been. And if Floyd were to come out of retirement to take on someone like Keith ‘One Time’ Thurman, Errol Spence or some other top welterweight, not only would I applaud the fight, I’d be the first one on line for a ticket. That kind of fight is what the fans – and I am a fan first – deserve. Which brings me back to the circus.”
De La Hoya’s continued that McGregor’s lack of any professional boxing experience would severely compromise the contest.
“I fully understand the initial attraction from any fan of combat sports. McGregor is almost certainly the best pound-for-pound MMA fighter. Floyd is Floyd – the most dominant boxer of his time. But success in one sport does not guarantee success in another. Far from it. And let’s be clear, these are two different sports – from the size of the gloves fighters wear, to the size and shape of the ring, to the fact the one sport allows combatants to use their legs to strike.
“Think about it, beyond Bo Jackson and Deion Sanders [in NFL and MLB], what other athlete has successfully competed in two sports in the modern age? And Jackson and Sanders both played both baseball and football throughout their high school and college careers before going professional. Furthermore, it’s not like McGregor would be fighting a good fighter, let alone a mediocre one. He would be fighting the best. To use a bit of an extreme analogy, I happen to be a pretty good golfer. Could I potentially hold my own on one of the second-tier tours? Maybe. But would I be able to compete with Rory McIlroy, Jordan Spieth or Sergio Garcia? Of course not. Nor would I think to try.”
McGregor claimed last week that he had agreed a deal to fight Mayweather and has applied for a boxing license in Nevada, where the fight would almost certainly take place. “The McGregor side is done,” UFC president Dana White told TNT. “I’m starting to work on the Mayweather side now.
The 40-year-old Mayweather last fought in September 2015 and was undefeated in 49 professional fights.
Big Orange, one of the most popular Flat horses in training, will head to the Gold Cup at Royal Ascot next month as a “major player”, according to Frankie Dettori, his new regular jockey, after an easy front-running success in the Henry II Stakes here on Thursday evening.
Big Orange has not managed to win until July in either of the last two seasons, but he needs fast ground to produce his best form and finished 10th under top weight in the Melbourne Cup last November. Michael Bell’s six-year-old, who also has won the last two runnings of the Goodwood Cup, is still available at double-figure odds for the Ascot Gold Cup but the reception he received here suggests he will have plenty of supporters at the Royal meeting.
“It’s really nice for him to have a confidence booster,” Bell said. “He’s had some hard races in the last six months, travelling around the world. It’s nice to come back and have the race won quite a long way out. Hopefully it will tee him up for the rest of the year.
“Ascot Gold Cup next. We’ll pray we get a nice hot steamy Ascot because he loves the fast ground. We took him out of the Gold Cup last year because of the rain, he just needs summer ground to be at his best. There’s no point taking on class horses on ground that doesn’t suit him.
“He’s such a good mover, he’s an enormous horse and he’s got an enormous stride. Frankie said that he’ll run a huge race and he’s really looking forward to it, and he’s a major player on fast ground.”
The card’s traditional feature race, the Group 3 Brigadier Gerard Stakes, was diminished by the scratching of So Mi Dar, the certain favourite, due to a muscle enzyme problem. In her absence Autocratic turned around his recent form with Steel Of Madrid to the tune of around a dozen lengths as he burst through a gap under Ryan Moore to win at 8-1.
Autocratic does not have any significant entries but the fact that he has been kept in training with Sir Michael Stoute is encouraging and his connections will now look for a Group 2 contest in the hope of continued progress. “He’s not had a lot of luck,” Chris Richardson, racing manager to Cheveley Park Stud, which owns Autocratic, said. “He’s quite a heavy horse and he’s been quite difficult to get fit so we haven’t given him any fancy entries, but we will have a think about things now and it’s a nice problem to have.”
The card’s third trial for Royal Ascot, the Listed National Stakes for juveniles, was won in typical Sandown fashion on the track’s straight five-furlong course as Havana Grey grabbed the far rail from his draw in stall one and made all the running to win by a length from the favourite, Frozen Angel.
The Group 2 Norfolk Stakes is the obvious target for a National Stakes winner, though it is 14 years since Russian Valour became the last horse to complete the double, and Havana Grey is 8-1 from 20-1 to follow up at the Royal meeting.
“I don’t know if we’ll go over five furlongs or six [at Royal Ascot],” Kelly Burke, the daughter of Havana Grey’s trainer, Karl, said. “The way he ran there I’d probably say five furlongs, but that will be up to the boss.
“He does everything you ask of him, he has such a great attitude. We didn’t want to lose that rail today with that good draw, but I think he’ll definitely be better taking a lead. He does improve with something to aim at.”
Mori, a daughter of Frankel out of Midday, who took the Nassau Stakes at Goodwood three years in a row from 2009, was a comfortable winner of the Height Of Fashion Stakes at the Sussex track earlier in the afternoon and will now run in the Group 2 Ribblesdale Stakes at Royal Ascot.
“Her father won two Sussex Stakes and her mother won three Nassaus,” Teddy Grimthorpe, racing manager to Mori’s owner Prince Khalid Abdullah, said. “If we were ever to breed a winner for Goodwood, this is the one. On that you’d be pretty confident she’d have no problems getting a mile-and-a-half.”
Bath
1.40 Go Amber Go 2.10 One Minute 2.45 Gold Filigree 3.20 Waves 3.55 Last Page 4.30 Gambol 5.05 Wapping 5.35 Hot Mustard
Pontefract
6.30 Whitkirk (nap) 7.00 Tamayuz Magic 7.30 Rufus King 8.00 Silvanus 8.30 Bonnie Arlene 9.00 Romanticism
Goodwood
2.00 May Remain 2.35 War Whisper 3.10 Alnaas 3.45 The Grand Visir 4.20 Notice 4.55 Vibrant Chords (nb) 5.25 Midnightly
Worcester
5.50 Brody Bleu 6.20 Mr Mix 6.50 Foundation Man 7.20 Adrrastos 7.50 Royal Village 8.20 Phare Isle 8.50 My Cousin Rachel
Haydock Park
2.20 Mazaaher 2.55 Hard Graft 3.30 Suitcase ‘N’ Taxi 4.05 Sasini 4.40 Arsenio Lupin 5.10 Critical Thinking 5.40 Atty Persse
Musselburgh
6.40 Mr Sundowner 7.10 Cheerfilly 7.40 Glengarry 8.10 Purple Rock 8.40 Rey Loopy 9.10 Amy Blair
Ivanka Trump, the former model and presidential adviser, mistook a picture of a revered Italian footballer for a saint during a recent night out in Rome.
The first daughter was dining with her husband, Jared Kushner, at Le Cave di Sant’Ignazio on Tuesday night when she spotted a picture of former Lazio star Giorgio Chinaglia – standing on a pitch, his arms stretched out to the heavens – and asked: “Which saint is that?”
The large photograph of Chinaglia was nestled between a crucifix and a picture of Padre Pio, a saint who is revered in Rome.
“We explained to her that it was not a saint but a great Lazio player,” Luigina Pantalone, one of the restaurant owners, told Ansa. The episode was confirmed by the Guardian.
“It was an honour to serve such a figure in our restaurant,” Pantalone added.
Any embarrassment did not last long. The couple’s party reportedly feasted on bruschette and cacio e pepe – a typical Roman pasta dish made with pecorino cheese – as well as ravioli, gnocchi and grilled shrimp.
Chinaglia died of a heart attack in 2012 at the age of 65. The Italian striker was loved not only in Italy but also in the US, where he played alongside Pelé and Franz Beckenbauer in the North American Soccer League.
Trump may have had God on her mind while in Rome. The next morning, she arrived at the Vatican for a meeting with Pope Francis.
Garry Monk’s Elland Road departure has sparked an early post-season scramble for his services after the former Swansea City manager resigned just two days after Andrea Radrizzani completed his takeover of Leeds United.
Monk, who was appointed head coach on a rolling 12-month contract only last June, tendered his resignation before Leeds activated a clause allowing them to extend his stay until the end of next season. The 38-year-old quit with several Premier League clubs and newly relegated sides seeking a manager but his contractual situation at Elland Road is also understood to have influenced his decision.
Monk is now scheduled to speak to Middlesbrough, who had been very close to appointing Nigel Pearson. However, with Crystal Palace, Watford and the recently relegated pair of Sunderland and Hull City also on the look-out for new managers, Monk will top many of those shortlists.
The former Middlesbrough manager Aitor Karanka is an early favourite for the Leeds post. Victor Orta, former head of recruitment at the Riverside under Karanka, has been targeted for a technical director’s role at Elland Road.
Radrizzani, an Italian businessman, completed his buy-out of Massimo Cellino only on Tuesday. He immediately signalled his intention to activate the 12-month option in Monk’s rolling contract but the former Swansea City manager wanted a new, longer-term deal.
In a statement, however, Leeds claimed Monk’s head had been turned before a meeting with Radrizzani on Wednesday and the new owner insisted a long-term contract was an option. Radrizzani tweeted: “Shocking news from GM. We were keen to do 3 years deal. We never receive any request from him and his agent. No regrets, we did our best.”
Leeds had previously stated: “We are shocked and disappointed by Garry’s decision but his resignation has been reluctantly accepted by chairman Andrea Radrizzani. Andrea made it clear to the media yesterday that his intention was to exercise the club’s option to extended the manager’s contract for another 12 months and immediately begin negotiations for a longer-term deal.
“Mr Radrizzani has met with Garry twice since taking over at Elland Road earlier this week and during the second meeting yesterday it became clear that Garry was considering life beyond Leeds United as at no time did Garry wish to discuss terms for a longer contract. Following that meeting yesterday Garry’s agent requested that the option was not exercised and his resignation was received this morning.”
Monk brought a period of relative stability to Leeds amid the turbulence of the Cellino era and was the first head coach in three years to serve a full season at Elland Road. He led the team to their highest league finish since 2011 and spent most of the Championship campaign challenging for the play-offs until a poor late run ended their prospects of promotion. Despite a sequence of one win in the final eight matches, Leeds’s new owner was keen to continue with Monk but must now begin the search for the club’s seventh managerial appointment in three years.
Monk tweeted a statement which read: “My intention was always to remain at Leeds and I saw myself at this fantastic club for many years to come. However, ultimately, no agreement could be reached.” Monk, who spent 10 years as a player at Swansea before taking over as manager in February 2014, leaves Leeds without compensation and is available to take another job immediately. He won 48% of his league games in charge, the fifth-highest percentage in the club’s history.
The Leeds statement added: “Whilst we are deeply saddened by Garry’s decision, there is no individual bigger than our club and we will now begin a process to identify and appoint a new head coach to take the club to the next level. We thank Garry for his contribution during his time at Leeds United, we are disappointed that we could not continue on this journey together.”
The Fifa president, Gianni Infantino, has admitted there have been human rights abuses of workers involved in the construction of the arena in St Petersburg due to host matches in next year’s World Cup. In a letter to the presidents of four Nordic football associations, which the Guardian has seen, Infantino also acknowledged that some men from North Korea, whose working conditions are “often appalling”, were deployed to work at the Zenit Arena in St Petersburg.
The presidents of the Swedish, Danish, Norwegian and Icelandic FAs wrote to Infantino raising their concerns last week, following in-depth reportage by the Norwegian football magazine Josimar, which highlighted dreadful working conditions at the St Petersburg site. The article alleged that accommodation for the North Korean and other workers was in crowded storage containers outside the stadium, and cited local reports that a North Korean man was found dead in one of the storage containers, having suffered a heart attack.
The conditions of North Korean workers in Russia, China and the Middle East, effectively sent abroad by their country’s totalitarian regime in return for commission, was described as “exploitation” and “slave-like” in a resolution of the United Nations in November. The Josimar report interviewed migrant workers from other countries who said they had worked long hours in dismal conditions at the Zenit Arena and been underpaid, in cash.
In his letter to the four FA presidents dated Monday 22 May, Infantino said: “Fifa is aware of and firmly condemns the often appalling labour conditions under which North Korean workers are employed in various countries around the world.”
He acknowledged that an inspection team for Fifa’s “Decent Work Monitoring System”, set up to address concerns about human rights abuses, did find “strong evidence for the presence of North Korean workers on the construction site in St Petersburg” on a visit in November. “The issues found were subsequently raised with the respective company and with the general contractor,” Infantino wrote.
A further inspection carried out in March found no more North Korean workers employed at the site, he said.
The monitoring system, which Infantino said has since been strengthened, is run jointly by Fifa and the committee in Russia organising the World Cup, whose chairman is Vitaly Mutko, the country’s deputy prime minister. Infantino acknowledged in his letter there had been “incompliances” relating to health and safety – five workers have reportedly died in accidents – timely payment of salaries and accommodation at the site.
“As a consequence of the relatively high number of incompliances compared with the other Fifa World Cup stadiums found in St Petersburg and due to the fatal accidents that happened on that construction site, Fifa and the local organising committee have required the general contractor to take immediate steps to rectify the issues identified,” the letter read.
In a statement, Fifa said it continues to monitor all World Cup construction in Russia, adding that no further evidence has been found of North Korean workers on any sites. “These activities are part of a broader effort by Fifa to systematise and enhance its activities to ensure respect for human rights throughout its operations,” the statement read.
Three British players have been given the chance to carve out careers in the NFL as the league extends its plans to make move into new markets.
The move is part of the NFL’s International Player Pathway scheme. Under the program, the players will be added to practice squads in the NFC South to develop their skills but will not be eligible to be activated to the main roster during the 2017 season.
Perhaps the most intriguing prospect is Alex Gray, a former England rugby sevens international, who has joined the Atlanta Falcons as a tight end. The Falcons lost this year’s Super Bowl to the New England Patriots. “I have been working hard for this goal and to be told it was going to happen was an amazing moment,” the 26-year-old Gray, who played for the Newcastle Falcons and London Irish during his rugby career, said. “This is the start of another journey. It is a fantastic thing that is happening, but I am not going to get to where I want to be without keeping myself grounded. Making the decision to give this my all from rugby, there was a big transition period and it was mentally very humbling. When you have to start from scratch again, that was a huge mental battle for me. When I look back I will be very proud of the way I approached this.’
So it's official...... I've left rugby on a new journey and signed for the @atlantafalcons . Life has been crazy these past couple of months and can't even describe what it's taken to get to this point. Honoured to be part of such a great organisation and to help them achieve success. So excited for what the future holds. I'm an NFL PLAYER!!! 🏉💪🦅
A post shared by Alex Gray (@alexander_thegrayt) on May 25, 2017 at 4:28am PDT
The two other British players have college football experience. Alex Jenkins was a three-year starter at defensive end for the University of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio, Texas. The 24-year-old has joined the New Orleans Saints. “This is a chance to develop and become a player in the NFL,” Jenkins said. “It has been a pretty intense time. It feels too good to be true. I always thought I would be trying to do this on my own until NFL International found me. The fact that the Saints will be playing in London this season [as part of the International Series] makes it even more exciting for me.”
Efe Obada joins another team that has reached the Super Bowl recently, the Carolina Panthers. The 25-year-old has had spells with the practice squads for the Falcons, Dallas Cowboys and Kansas City Chiefs. A German player, Eric Nzeocha, joins the Tampa Bay Buccaneers as part of the scheme.
It is highly unlikely that any of the players, already in their mid-20s, will transition to starters in the league, but they follow a number of British players into the league The Miami Dolphins running back Jay Ajayi was named to the Pro Bowl after a productive 2016 season in Florida, although he moved from London to the US when he was seven. Menelik Watson of the Denver Broncos and Atlanta’s Jack Crawford were born and raised in the UK and have since carved out respectable careers in the NFL.
1) Andy Murray
Murray arrives in Paris badly out of form and with his hopes of winning his first title at Roland Garros looking slimmer than ever after last year’s breakthrough run to the final. The world No1, who turned 30 earlier this month, has been out of sorts since rising to the top of the rankings for the first time last November. He has not recovered from the shock of his fourth-round defeat to Mischa Zverev in the Australian Open, since when he has struggled with injuries and illness and suffered further setbacks against players he would normally eat for breakfast. Losing heavily to Fabio Fognini in Rome last year was another worrying sign. But Murray has been strong on clay since 2014 and while he will be vulnerable in the first week, he will be a threat if he can build some momentum.
2) Novak Djokovic
The world No2 returns to the scene of one of his greatest triumphs with doubts hanging over him after a troubled 12 months. When Djokovic completed the calendar slam by beating Murray in last year’s final, he was untouchable, as dominant a figure as the sport had ever seen. But that victory was the prelude to an astonishing dip. It began with that defeat to Sam Querrey at Wimbledon, continued when he lost his No1 ranking to Murray and threatened to spiral out of control when he was vanquished by Denis Istomin in Melbourne. Bidding to restore order to his game, Djokovic has opted for the shock therapy of parting company with his longtime coaching team and making the intriguing decision to link up with Andre Agassi on a short-term basis, but the defending champion has plenty to prove after turning 30 last week.
3) Stan Wawrinka
The reigning US Open champion has been in scratchy form in recent weeks, losing to Pablo Cuevas in Monte Carlo and Benoit Paire in Madrid. Yet using warm-up tournaments as a way to assess Wawrinka’s level before a grand slam is inadvisable. The Swiss is a man for the big occasion, a player who thrives under pressure. The 32-year-old often sails close to the wind in opening rounds, but Wawrinka is always dangerous in the second week. He pushed Roger Federer to five sets in their Australian Open semi-final in January and his blistering shotmaking saw him defeat Djokovic in the French Open final two years ago. He can be erratic. He can also be unstoppable, especially when that single-handed backhand purrs.
4) Rafael Nadal
The king of clay wants his crown back. Fit again after a wrist injury wrecked his 2016 campaign, Nadal began the year by reaching the Australian Open final, only to lose a wonderfully nostalgic battle with Federer. But his old rival has decided to skip the clay season, removing one sizeable obstacle from Nadal’s path, and the Spaniard has been back to his best on his favourite surface, storming to three titles on the dirt while also ending a seven-match losing streak against Djokovic with a convincing performance in their Madrid semi-final. Can anyone stop the owner of a record nine French Open titles from completing La Decima?
5) Milos Raonic
The Canadian’s seeding received a boost thanks to Federer’s decision to sit this one out, but will that be enough on its own to help him end his wait for a first major? Indeed, if Raonic is going to win one it is unlikely that it will be at Roland Garros, where his best result is a run to the last eight three years ago. Knocked out in the fourth round by the Spanish hustler Albert Ramos Vinolas last year, Raonic remains uncomfortable on clay, while he has been plagued by fitness concerns since the Australian Open. His huge serve gives him a chance in any setting, though.
Dominic Thiem
Up to seventh in the rankings after a fine run featuring a gutsy three-set win over Murray in their Barcelona semi-final, the rising Austrian has grown in belief during the clay season. The 23-year-old couldn’t quell Nadal in either of their finals in Barcelona or Madrid, but he ended the Spaniard’s run on clay in their Rome quarter-final. His increasing consistency offers encouragement about his chances of bettering last year’s semi-final appearance.
Grigor Dimitrov
The Bulgarian continues to hover outside the top 10 and the sense persists that he is not making the most of his vast talent. But after a couple of indifferent years, he came desperately close to beating Nadal in an epic five-setter in their Australian Open semi-final. Has the penny finally dropped? Fans of the Bulgarian’s natural ability will hope so, although he has never done well at Roland Garros. Is the 26-year-old powerful enough to prosper on this surface?
Alex Zverev
The 20-year-old German is tipped by many to rule the men’s game in the future and although his time hasn’t come yet – Nadal handed him a harsh lesson in Monte Carlo – he provided a display of his awesome potential by picking up his first Masters title with a swaggering victory over Djokovic in Rome.
Others to watch
After recording two hard-court wins over Djokovic, it would be a shame if the unpredictable Nick Kyrgios is ruled out by the hip problem that forced him to miss the Italian Open. But there are no shortage of dark horses. Juan Martín del Potro, the romantic’s choice after his recent injury nightmares, did well in Rome, while David Goffin has been playing some good tennis recently. Kei Nishikori cannot be ruled out of contention either despite the world No9’s flakiness and Marin Cilic’s power game can be formidable in the right circumstances. It’s Nadal’s year, though, isn’t it?
• French Open women’s form guide will go online on Friday morning
How the manager recruits in the transfer window will be key and the priority is a top-class goalscorer. Antoine Griezmann got 27 goals for Atlético Madrid this season. Everton’s Romelu Lukaku scored 25 in the Premier League. Ideally the manager would like both: Lukaku to be the spearhead in the mould of a Didier Drogba at Chelsea or Zlatan Ibrahimovic, and Griezmann to play off him – or Marcus Rashford – as Mourinho has reservations about Jesse Lingard, Henrikh Mkhitaryan and Anthony Martial. In midfield, Michael Carrick is 36 in July so support is required for Ander Herrera, Paul Pogba and Marouane Fellaini. Another centre-back may also be on the list as this season Chris Smalling, Phil Jones, Eric Bailly and Marcos Rojo were hardly ever available at the same time because of a variety of injuries. Daley Blind performed well in the position in the Europa League final but the sense is one of Smalling and Jones may leave.
Just as crucial as who Mourinho acquires is whether he can keep the Spaniard at the club. David de Gea has a case for being the world’s best goalkeeper and has just returned another flawless campaign. If he were to depart this would leave a particularly difficult hole to fill. Real Madrid continue to lurk and it will be a surprise if they do not try to prise the 26-year-old away. The clubs have been here before, of course, as De Gea nearly left in the summer of 2015. “We have a situation that is not favourable for David de Gea but neither for us and neither for the club that maybe he wants to go [to],” Louis van Gaal, the former manager, said at the time. De Gea’s sentiment might not have changed so it may prove difficult for Mourinho to hold on to him.
In a nutshell, that is why United finished only sixth in the Premier League, 24 points behind Chelsea and scored 54 times to the 85 of Antonio Conte’s champions. The tally is only five more than Van Gaal’s side managed 12 months ago. This is partly a function of Mourinho’s defence-first approach and also the lack of a regular goalscorer to support Ibrahimovic, who struck 28 before a knee injury. As Wayne Rooney says: “The manager makes us so hard to beat and hopes we’ll get a goal or two to win the game.” The good news is that United offer more attacking-danger than Van Gaal’s side and if Pogba, Lingard, Mkhitaryan and Martial had been more clinical then many of the 15 league draws may have been wins. In a tight Champions League knockout round a lethal striker could be the difference.
The prevailing criticism of Mourinho’s United is that they can be as plodding in their approach as Van Gaal’s. Privately, Mourinho might say this is because some of his players are not yet accomplished enough for a slick-quick style. A hint is dropped regarding who the manager believes is lacking when in describing Rashford as able to “cope with pressure” he failed to mention Martial, Mkhitaryan and Lingard. “For me what’s more difficult is the fragile mentality,” the manager says. “It’s probably my weakness that it’s difficult for me to understand people with a different mentality to what I have. It takes me time to understand and sometimes I’m not able to feel attracted again [to the player]. Because for me I want to be in love with the player, with this character, with this personality and that kid Marcus is the best example of it, especially in this club.”
Mourinho is entitled to an if-it-ain’t-broke-just-tweak-it approach given he finishes the season with two major trophies – the EFL Cup and Europa League – and has returned United to the Champions League group stage after Van Gaal’s failure to finish fourth. This is the first time they will not have to play a qualifying tie to enter the competition proper since David Moyes inherited Sir Alex Ferguson’s champions of 2012‑13. The Europa League success means Mourinho has now won four European trophies – two Champions Leagues and two Uefa Cups/Europa Leagues. “I think he just knows,” Rooney says. “Having this season with him, I’ve seen how he works. I feel we’re progressing as a team and a club, and I’m sure there’ll be many more.”
The end of the Premier League’s 25th campaign provides an opportune moment to marvel at the division’s tremendous tactical and technical development during its first quarter of a century. At its inaugural season in 1992-93 the Premier League was largely based around 4-4-2, long balls and getting it in the mixer; 25 years on it is about 3-4-2-1, intricate combination play and gegenpressing.
The most significant progress occurred during the mid-1990s. There were various contributing factors: the backpass law meant teams were obliged to become more comfortable in possession, the huge surge in broadcasting revenue meant English football could attract top players and the end of the three-foreigner rule inevitably changed teams’ approach significantly. On its first weekend, in August 1992, only 11 non-British or Irish players started for the Premier League’s 22 clubs combined. By the end of the decade foreign managers were dominant and Chelsea had fielded an all-foreign starting XI. English football, traditionally slow to embrace tactical innovations from abroad, opened its eyes. It was a period of remarkable change and tremendous excitement.
One of the Premier League’s most fascinating players during this period was Georgi Kinkladze, an absurdly talented Georgian No10 who provided some incredible moments of magic on joining Manchester City in 1995. Kinkladze was unlike anything City supporters had witnessed before, a marvellously evasive dribbler with an eye for a through-ball and the odd wonder goal. But Kinkladze was completely unsuited to the traditional English 4-4-2 system and, in order to incorporate him in his favoured position, City’s managers were forced into tactical experiments which often proved disastrous and eventually contributed to the club suffering consecutive relegations. The story of Kinkladze, as much as more successful foreign imports, summarised Premier League football during this period.
After the transformative presence of Eric Cantona had established Manchester United as the Premier League’s dominant force by the mid-1990s, rival clubs desperately attempted to find their equivalent. This often proved successful – Arsenal had finished in the bottom half the season before Dennis Bergkamp’s arrival in 1995, as had Chelsea before Gianfranco Zola joined in 1996. Both rivalled Cantona’s impact, helping to introduce a more technical, continental style of play.
But basing a side around an inventive No10 did not always work, as Alan Ball’s Manchester City discovered with Kinkladze, the epitome of a frustrating genius. Kinkladze was recruited after a sensational performance in Georgia’s 5-0 thrashing of Wales in November 1994, a seismic result: only three years after Georgia had gained independence it was their first competitive victory.
Deployed behind Temuri Ketsbaia and Shota Arveladze in a 4–3–1–2 formation, Kinkladze ran the game and grabbed his first international goal. “They murdered us,” the Wales goalkeeper, Neville Southall, recalled. “Kinkladze was different class and the best player on the pitch by a mile.” In the return fixture the following summer Kinkladze again dominated. This time he scored the game’s only goal, an incredible 25-yard, left-foot chip over Southall.
The Georgian had been tracked by other clubs, having unsuccessful trials at Real and Atlético Madrid – and, intriguingly, a month-long loan at Boca Juniors, who revere the No10 role more than any club in world football, where Kinkladze met his idol, Diego Maradona. None of them signed Kinkladze permanently, however, and instead he joined Manchester City as Ball’s first signing.
The City experience started disastrously. They collected two points from their first 11 games, scoring only three goals, while Kinkladze struggled: homesick, unable to speak English and living alone in a Manchester hotel for three months. His improvement coincided with the arrival of two Georgian friends and his mother, Khatuna, who brought home comforts: Georgian cognac, walnuts and spices to make his favourite dishes. Kinkladze scored his first goal in November, a late winner in the 1-0 victory over Aston Villa at Maine Road. “He was bewildered to start with,” Ball said at the time. “He spoke very little English and it was foreign to him to tackle and scrap and fight like you do in England. But the boy’s got an immense talent.”
Kinkladze’s Premier League spell is best remembered for a couple of truly magnificent goals. The first opened the scoring against Middlesbrough in December 1995, when he collected the ball on the right and dribbled across into an inside-left position before suddenly cutting back inside Phil Stamp and sidefooting the ball firmly into the far corner. His other superb strike, later voted March’s goal of the month, came at Southampton. Having opened the scoring with a close-range tap-in and hit the crossbar from outside the box, Kinkladze collected the ball on the right, dribbled directly towards goal while evading four increasingly desperate challenges, dummied to put Dave Beasant on the ground, then lifted the ball over his head and into the net. “It was the closest thing I have seen to Maradona’s goal against England,” Ball raved, before somewhat unnecessarily clarifying: “Not the one with his hand, the one where he did everyone and put it away. People ask why we are bringing this type of player to this country. If that wasn’t the answer today, nothing is.”
City supporters were already tired of Manchester United’s dominance and Cantona’s cult-like status, and absolutely worshipped Kinkladze – the best Georgi in Manchester since Best. The feeling was reciprocated: after his initial alienation in Manchester Kinkladze grew to love the city and married a Mancunian. “If he’d been playing with a successful team,” said the striker Niall Quinn at the time, “then he would have won player’s player of the year because it’s quite breathtaking what he’s done in English football. He’s a lovely guy as well…I think, because he doesn’t speak a word of English…but he seems nice.”
This was at the height of Britpop and Kinkladze was rewarded for his fine form with a chant to the tune of Oasis’ Wonderwall. “All the runs that Kinky makes are blinding,” it ran, before ending with a brilliant: “And after all … we’ve got Alan Ball.” The composer of that song, City fan Noel Gallagher, also offered a wonderful Kinkladze summary. Describing him as “either the most frightening thing I’ve ever seen or the best thing I’ve ever seen”, Gallagher predicted Kinkladze would either lead City to the European Cup, or take them down to the fourth division. He was nearly right: when Kinkladze left City in 1998 they were in the third tier.
City were relegated precisely because Ball built the entire team around Kinkladze. “For me, Georgi had been the catalyst for City’s problems,” said the forward Paul Walsh. “Don’t get me wrong, Georgi had amazing individual ability and, if you put his top five goals on YouTube, they’d rival any great player on the planet. But Ball indulged him. He wanted to build the team around Georgi and change the whole dynamic of the side, but it was never going to work…for a player who the whole team operated around he didn’t score enough goals, didn’t make enough goals, didn’t tackle, didn’t head it and his overall contribution wasn’t enough.”
The winger Nicky Summerbee agreed. “Bally loved him. Georgi could do no wrong – I got on very well with him and we weren’t jealous because we could all see how talented he was, but some hated Alan Ball for doing that – except Georgi because he loved all the praise…the problem with Georgi was that you couldn’t play 4-4-2 because to get the best out of him you wouldn’t want him playing a conventional running midfield game and, if there are two men wide, that leaves only one in midfield. Ball changed formation all the time, a sure sign he didn’t know what he was doing.”
Keith Curle, then City’s captain, later recalled the extent of the free role Ball afforded Kinkladze. “I remember losing away to Arsenal that season and one of the goals we conceded came because Georgi hadn’t tracked a runner. The lads were not happy and some said as much to the manager after the game. In reply he told them that, if they were as talented as Georgi, they wouldn’t have to track back either.”
After City’s relegation Ball lasted only three games before he was replaced by Frank Clark, who tried a similar approach. “I wanted to build the team around Kinkladze because that’s the ideal way to get the best out of him. He’s an incredible talent… [but] he certainly didn’t like running if he didn’t have the ball at his feet and I thought there was a certain amount of resentment towards him from some of the squad.” Like Ball, Clark ended up changing formation to change Kinkladze’s role. He initially played a 4-4-2 with the Georgian as a deep-lying forward, then switched to 4-3-1-2, fielding him behind a strike duo. “We tied ourselves up in knots trying to accommodate him,” Clark said. “The 4-3-1-2 system suited Kinkladze perfectly because it gave him great freedom, but it didn’t suit the other players and it didn’t work.”
Clark was replaced by Joe Royle, less of a footballing romantic, whose first words to the board about footballing matters were simple: “We have to sell Kinkladze.” He would no longer be indulged. “Kinkladze was not a team player and had a disturbing habit of disappearing for long periods during games,” Royle explained. “To the supporters he was the only positive in all that time. To me he was a big negative.” The Georgian was sold to Ajax, a club who deeply value technical players but also generally play a 4-3-3 system – meaning the manager, Jan Wouters, had no space for a No10. “I could have been Maradona and he wouldn’t have changed the system to accommodate me,” Kinkladze complained. He returned to the Premier League and showed flashes of brilliance during a spell with Derby County, but by this stage managers had tired of basing their side around him.
English football had learned to appreciate the quality provided by mysterious, continental No10s, but the Premier League was still largely fixated on varieties of 4-4-2.
Therefore, while the entire definition of a No10 is that he is neither a forward nor a midfielder and instead somewhere in between, realistically almost every No10 can be considered one or the other. And while withdrawn forwards like Cantona, Bergkamp and Zola thrived by dropping deep and turning their side into a 4-4-1-1, brilliant attacking midfielders like Kinkladze and Middlesbrough’s Juninho – who also suffered relegation despite his immense talent – caused managers problems because they generally needed more unusual formations which their English team-mates were not accustomed to. The Premier League had evolved radically in terms of incorporating more technical footballers but in a tactical sense there was still plenty of improvement required.
This is an edited extract from The Mixer: The Story of Premier League Tactics, from Route One to False Nines, by Michael Cox (HarperCollins) £16.99, which is out on 1 June
Ben Stokes has given England an injury scare with less than a week to go until the Champions Trophy, and is due to have a scan on his left knee on Thursday night.
The all-rounder was injured during Wednesday’s ODI win over South Africa and though he returned to the field, he did not bowl again and appeared uncomfortable at the conclusion.
Stokes had an operation on the same knee last year and was ruled out for almost two months. Depending on the results of the scan, he may be rested for the final two games of the South Africa series to allow him to be in the best shape for the Champions Trophy, which starts next Thursday.
Sam Billings’s recent suggestion that “people are petrified” of England might be a stretch, meanwhile, but there does seem to be a new measure of respect for Eoin Morgan’s one-day team. After arriving in London on Thursday, Virat Kohli spoke about how much England have improved since the last World Cup. “We always related to England as a very strong Test team but in the last two or three years, since that World Cup, they’ve really changed the way they play their cricket,” India’s captain said. “Credit to them for shaping their short-format cricket so well, it’s quite exciting to see, and for the opposition it’s quite challenging.
“England are a very, very balanced side,” he continued, “one of the two best balanced sides in the world at the moment. They bat right down to No9 or 10, all explosive players, have five or six guys who can both bat and bowl, and [they have] gun fielders as well. That’s why they give you such tough competition anywhere they play in the world in one-day cricket, and we experienced that in India as well.” India did beat England 2-1 in last winter’s series, but all three games were tight, and England’s totals were 350, 366, and 321.
“I don’t think they scored anything less than 320 runs,” Kohli said. “When a side plays in that manner for so long when it doesn’t click, it can go against you pretty quickly. But they’ve managed to continue that mindset pretty well. I haven’t seen anyone taking a backward step at any stage of the game and that’s pretty amazing to see, for all the batsmen to play like that is quite rare. You always have two, three guys who play through the innings. But with them it’s all about attack throughout the 50 overs.”
India beat England in the final of the previous Champions Trophy, in 2013, and Kohli says his side will be using that success as a template for what to do this time around. “Last time we were able to win it was because our fast bowlers were doing well, our spinners were obviously doing well and they were in form, the fielding stood out and the opening partnership was outstanding. So these were the three factors that helped us. Those, we’ve recognised, are the areas in England where you need to be strong for you to be able to go a long way in the tournament.”
Like Australia, India will have to deal with an unwanted distraction. On Thursday morning the BCCI announced that the coach, Anil Kumble, would need to reapply for his job after the tournament as his one-year contract has come to an end. India have won 20 of the 31 matches they have played since he took over, but Kohli gave a lukewarm response when he was asked to describe the coach’s work. “When you have results go your way the contribution is from every part of the team, not from a single source. Everyone works hard equally if not more than any other person. The process has been followed every single time in a similar way in Indian cricket for the last 20 years, as far as I know,” he said. “Even the last time the post was up for a change the same procedure was applied. The term being one year, procedure is being followed in the same manner, so I don’t see anything different from what’s happened in the past.”
A Test competition is set to be introduced by the International Cricket Council as it aims to reinvigorate the longest form of the game. Its cricket committee agreed to recommend to its chief executives’ committee the implementation of a long-mooted Test championship as well as introducing the decision review system in all T20 internationals.
There were testing times in Monaco for Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes as the British driver and his team struggled to extract the maximum from their car, before what is shaping up to be a tight battle with Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel on the streets of Monte Carlo. Hamilton was well out-paced by his rival in second practice and he and the team were at a loss to explain why.
Buoyed by his win at the last round in Spain, having come back after an indifferent weekend in Russia when he could not find the right set-up for his car, Hamilton had been optimistic that Mercedes had moved further forward and were well-prepared for Monaco. He was fastest in the morning session on a track that was still green, undergoing the first running of the week, but he remained only two-tenths better than Vettel over the session with the quick runs set on the ultrasoft tyres.
The afternoon proved to be a different story. Making the best of the new 2017-spec cars, Vettel put in the fastest ever lap of the street circuit, 1min 12.720sec, and was over four-tenths clear of the second-placed car, Daniel Ricciardo’s Red Bull.
Hamilton could manage only eighth place and was over a second back from Vettel. “We didn’t have the greatest day today. Practice one was actually really good and we were quickest, but then in second practice we just struggled to extract the grip from the tyres and we were sliding around a lot,” he said. The three-time world champion trails Vettel by six points in the world championship and was hoping to put his nose in front at Monaco.
His team-mate Valtteri Bottas, fourth in the morning session, had similar problems and was 10th in the afternoon. The Mercedes has had issues working its tyres all season: bringing them into the right temperature of their operating window has proved difficult and the window itself narrow. This was something they hoped upgrades in Barcelona had addressed and victory there suggested they had been successful. But set-up changes between the two sessions in Monaco have taken the car in the opposite direction. Even when they switched to the ultrasofts at the end of the session it made no appreciable difference.
“I’m not sure why the tyres weren’t working but the difference between the two sessions was night and day,” said Hamilton. “We’ve got some work to do ahead of Saturday that’s for sure but I’m confident the team can work it out.”
Vettel too was perplexed as to the reasons behind Mercedes’ drop in form. “I don’t know what happened to them today, it was a bit weird,” he said. “I was pretty happy in the afternoon. In the morning, I was maybe a bit wild, touching the walls a couple of times but the afternoon seemed a bit better. Around here, it’s important to have a good feel for the car, get the lap together. You can’t always go with the one time you set at the end of the day but we managed to put it together and we’re quite happy.”
Hamilton’s team-mate acknowledged that Mercedes had not made the right adjustments, the first time the new wider, faster cars with more durable Pirelli rubber have raced here. “We made some changes between practice one and practice two but we clearly went in the wrong direction – that’s why both of us were struggling,” said Bottas.
Mercedes have one more session on Saturday morning to find form again before qualifying and are looking to address the cause with some urgency. “After a very positive morning session with both cars and drivers, the afternoon proved more difficult and we clearly took a step in the wrong direction with the car set-up over the break,” said their technical director James Allison, “We will have a good think about it tomorrow in order to put things right for Saturday. But I think we can be encouraged by the pace and consistency that we were able to demonstrate in free practice one.”
Jenson Button, returning from retirement for one race to replace Fernando Alonso who is competing at the Indy 500 this weekend, took to the wheel of the McLaren with a very solid performance.
Button had not driven the new cars before and there had been some scepticism at how well he would manage, having only done simulator time before this week. However the 2009 world champion eased back into the seat with relative aplomb. He was 14th fastest in the first session and 12th in the second. Crucially both runs were without incident and in the afternoon he was just three-hundredths back on his team-mate Stoffel Vandoorne, who has been in the car all season.
Monaco is a circuit at which the McLaren’s power deficit is negated and Button and the team know this is a prime opportunity to score their first points of the season.
Earlier Hamilton said he has no intention of entering a psychological battle with Sebastian Vettel. Just six points separate the two drivers at the top of the table and with their respective Mercedes and Ferrari cars usually closely matched, the season is likely to be nip and tuck between the pair throughout. But the British driver, who has been revelling in the competition, is insistent he does not want mind games to detract from their on-track fight.
“I take a lot of pride in the fact I am very strong mentally,” Hamilton said. “I think that’s something you can admire when battling someone else like Sebastian or Fernando Alonso.”
Over the previous three seasons his relationship with his former team-mate Nico Rosberg deteriorated and there was an element of mind-games between the pair, but Hamilton has already stressed that the competition with another team makes for a very different dynamic. Specifically he has been clear that he is enjoying this competition, in stark contrast to the battle with Rosberg, and that he wants his fight to remain above board with Vettel.
“I want him to be his best when he gets in the car so I don’t have any intention of playing psychological wars outside the car,” he said. “I want to beat him in the car because when he’s at his best and I beat him, that says what it needs to say rather than having him on the back foot.”
Hamilton did acknowledge, however, that an element of mental competition would be likely to become part of their contest as the season went on.
“It’s definitely going to be part of it this year for both of us,” he said. “It’s such a long year, just like it is in golf over 18 holes – whoever is the most consistent generally ends up winning. I am excited about that, it’s an all-round battle, physically, mentally, technically, and I think that’s why it’s a great battle.”
In Barcelona Vettel squeezed Hamilton wide on turn one at the Circuit de Catalunya, which Hamilton referred to as dangerous at the time, a remark he later conceded was made in the heat of the moment, concluding their fight had been “awesome”.
The advantage Mercedes enjoyed for the past three years has meant that the team was not pushed strategically. With Ferrari now on a par in terms of race pace, the situation is more complex and the Scuderia has come out of the blocks with some inventive and aggressive tactical decisions. Consequently the competitive yet positive relationship between the two drivers had been picked up by the team, Hamilton noted.
“There’s just so much more excitement now that we are fighting against another team,” he said. “There is actually more passion and excitement being extracted from within the team. I’ve not seen this team so passionate and excited in the five years that I’ve been with them. Being on the podium in the last race, I saw an energy from my team that I’ve been yearning for, that they’ve probably all been yearning for in the time that we’ve been racing.”
Manchester City have confirmed the departures of Jesús Navas, Gaël Clichy, Willy Caballero and Bacary Sagna. All four players were out of contract this summer.
Navas spent four years at the club, making 77 Premier League starts, with Clichy leaving after six years’ service and more than 200 appearances. Caballero joined City in 2014. Sagna, who moved from Arsenal in 2014, made 85 appearances for the club.
Their exits follow that of long-serving right-back Pablo Zabaleta, who left after nine years at the club following the end of the season. The future of the influential midfielder Yaya Touré remains uncertain, however, as he comes to the end of his contract.
Navas, 31, was signed from Sevilla in 2013 and scored four goals for City. There were reports he could be offered a new deal at the Etihad Stadium but the Spanish World Cup winner has also been linked with a return to his hometown club.
He helped City to the Premier League title in 2014 and enjoyed League Cup success in that same season as well as last year. The manager, Pep Guardiola, experimented with him as right-back towards the end of the 2016-17 campaign but the club and player will now part ways.
The City director of football, Txiki Begiristain, said: “Working with Jesús has been a pleasure. His hard work, dedication, professionalism and desire to win have been apparent every single day.”
Clichy featured in two title successes and also won the League Cup twice after his move from Arsenal in 2011.
The Frenchman, 31, told the club’s website: “It’s been a special six years for me at City. To win four major trophies and help establish the club as one of the top teams in English football has been an incredible journey that I’m proud to have been a part of. It’s amazing to see where the club is today and I am sure there is plenty more success to come.”
Begiristain added: “Gaël has been an important player for this football club and I want to wish him well for the future. Since my first day here, he has been an outstanding in the way he has applied himself, both in games and in training.
“He has been a key part in some special moments for this football club and for that he will always be remembered fondly.”
The departures are expected be the start of an overhaul of the squad as Guardiola looks to rebuild following an underwhelming first campaign at the club.
There are a number of other players out on loan who could also move on, including Samir Nasri, Joe Hart, Eliaquim Mangala and Wilfried Bony.
As a wannabe professional cricketer aged 14 or 15, Jack Shantry was “diagnosed with a mixed bowling action.” “It sounds terminal, doesn’t it?” he laughs. As a canny and unorthodox left-arm swing bowler for Worcestershire, Shantry has developed a reputation as one of cricket’s most interesting and quirky characters, for both his peculiar bowling action and the way he engages wittily with fans – and detractors – on social media.
Shantry joins us as we return to the podcast after a rather accidental six-month absence. Artistic differences behind us, we travelled to Worcester to meet Shantry. “I’m sure you’ll bring up my lack of pace…” he says, as first up on the agenda is Shantry’s slightly unusual route into the game and how he developed that bowling action.
Did coaches try to hammer it out of him? Has it has held him back? Is English cricket open-minded enough towards those with different techniques? Has he been sledged, particularly when he went to Australia to play grade cricket? “All they’ve seen is your cricinfo page and your stats and they’re quite respectable… the captain tells his team-mates that he’s got a tall young quick coming from Worcester, then meets me and it’s ‘sorry mate, who are you?!’”
Also up for discussion is Worcestershire’s exciting young team – whether they can secure promotion or win the One-Day Cup, and whether, as one of the smaller counties, they can cling on to band of quality young batsmen such as Joe Clarke, Tom Kohler-Cadmore and Tom Fell.
And, by way of indulgence, we also chatted about “Shantry’s Match” when, against Surrey in 2014, he took 10 wickets and scored his first ever century to secure promotion to Division One. Unsurprisingly, he can recall the game in remarkable detail.
You can subscribe to the podcast on iTunes, listen on Soundcloud, follow on Twitter, or just look out for episodes here on the Guardian Sport Network.
As Manchester United’s players celebrated with the Europa League trophy, José Mourinho brandished a red flag. He walked in front of his squad and tried to plant it into the pitch. The pole, though, was too flimsy and bent, leaving Mourinho to prop the flag awkwardly against a hoarding reading “Stockholm Final 2017”. As a metaphor for his first season at United it could hardy have been bettered: grand gestures thwarted but the job eventually, just about, done.
It was a night replete with symbolism. Deep into injury-time at the Friends Arena on Wednesday night, the Ajax winger Amin Younes picked up the ball on the left. He glanced up and had just made as though to jink inside when he was clattered by the horizontal form of Wayne Rooney making an effective if clunking challenge that put the ball out for a throw-in. That it could be his last ever touch in a United shirt felt hugely appropriate; he has throughout most of his career had a pleasing commitment to the necessary but unglamorous work.
But it also said something about Mourinho’s United and how they overwhelmed Ajax in a generally underwhelming final. This is the most expensive football squad ever assembled, and yet it ended with Marouane Fellaini playing as a lone striker.
Whether that matters or not depends on perspective. In the immediate context, it probably doesn’t. Mourinho’s celebrations, kissing the trophy before it was presented to Rooney and then pretending to run off with it as the players celebrated in front of the United fans, suggested just how much this meant to him, just how essential victory and qualifying for next season’s Champions League is to United’s rebuilding work. Winning was the critical thing; the how can come later.
It’s not, though, as simple as that. Mourinho is not a manager who occasionally adopts a policy of pragmatism to achieve a specific goal, before switching to something more expansive. Rather, he revels in discarding aesthetic expectations, in scorning “the poets” whose idealistic abstractions “win every match”. This season Mourinho attacked the “Einsteins” who were opposed to him; railing against the arts and the sciences, he truly is a man under siege. Wednesday’s win, Mourinho said, was “a victory of the pragmatism, a victory of the humble people, a victory of the people who respect the opponents, a victory of the people who try to stop the opponents and exploit their weaknesses”.
In that sense, this was a Mourinho masterclass. Ajax have thrilled this season with their high pressing and the fluency of their play, but United thwarted that. As their coach, Peter Bosz, said: “I didn’t see that Ajax here.” Mourinho has, with some fury, dismissed the veracity of certain claims in Diego Torres’s biography of him, but the seven-point plan laid out for winning big games held true here. United minimised their risk, let Ajax have the ball and seized on their mistakes. “High pressing was difficult because Manchester United only played long balls, didn’t take any risks and played only on second balls,” Bosz said. “I think it was a boring game.”
Perhaps for neutrals it was but that will not bother Mourinho. “There are lots of poets in football,” he said, “but poets don’t win titles.” Avoiding risk was one part of the strategy; the other was to cut off the supply to Kasper Dolberg.
The Ajax wingers Younes and Bertrand Traoré had respectively completed the most and the 10th most dribbles in the Europa League this season. They managed seven each on Wednesday, but the end product was a solitary key pass apiece. They got the ball, they ran with the ball and they found themselves without an option. So isolated was Dolberg that the first time he touched the ball was to kick off after Paul Pogba had given United an 18th-minute lead.
The question is whether in the longer term that is enough. The suggestion that there is something hubristic about looking to impose your style on opponents rather than stopping them from playing was characteristic Mourinho propaganda. He understands that the anti-establishment, underdog shtick he employed so successfully at Porto, Chelsea and Internazionale won’t really work at United, just as it quickly palled at Real Madrid once the urgent goal of toppling Pep Guardiola had been achieved. You can’t be one of the two richest clubs in the world, with a noodle deal in every territory, and pretend your reactive football is a necessary gambit in the face of an overwhelming inferiority of resources.
Similarly, United will accept the “humble” approach for as long as it seems necessary. The four seasons since Sir Alex Ferguson’s retirement have been turbulent. If this is what it takes to get the club back on track, so be it. But if this is, as seems likely, another summer of significant expenditure, directors and fans will soon start to expect at least a little poetry to enter Mourinho’s soul and United’s play.
1) Nicky Hayden, former MotoGP world champion, tragically died on Monday. Here is one of many tributes to the Kentucky Kid, and here he is on a champions’ lap of the Isle of Man TT back in 2011. Nicky’s father Earl Hayden spoke late last year about his son’s lifelong passion for motorcycles. Also from last year, Hayden gives an in-depth interview to CNET’s Tim Stevens, who has paid a personal, emotional tribute. Finally, take a look back at his finest hour – his 2006 world title, where he pipped Valentino Rossi after a season of high drama.
2) It’s FA Cup final weekend – here’s how Chelsea and Arsenal got to Wembley. The two London sides have only met in one Cup final before – the Ray Parlour final in 2002. Ryan Giggs remembers everything about Manchester United’s 1996 win over Liverpool – apart from David May. From way back when, here’s Pathé News on the full FA Cup final experience in 1966, including behind-the-scenes pre-match footage: “These Everton men, tense, strung up, nervous, only 90 minutes away from victory – or defeat.” Also from Pathé: 1939’s report when referees really knew how to dress, and a creative effort in 1936 when the cameras were locked out, so Pathé filmed the game by hovering overhead in the Pathé autogyro instead – the Skycopter of its day. Some brilliant footage, “taken in circumstances of considerable difficulty”.
3) It’s the Portuguese cup final coming up, too: Sunday’s game a repeat of the 2013 final, when Vitória de Guimarães came from behind to stun Benfica. Elsewhere in Europe, Wolfsburg face a relegation play-off against local rivals Eintracht Braunschweig. Oh Wolfsburg – where did it all go wrong? In France, Amiens were sixth with 10 seconds of their season left – but one goal lifted them to second. Here’s how it looked from the stands.
4) Yet more tension! It’s Championship play-off final time: Reading playing Huddersfield on Monday for £200m. The Royals have lost two Wembley thrillers before – going 2-0 up on Bolton in 1995 only to lose 4-3, and going 3-0 down to Swansea in 2011… and losing 4-2. Huddersfield have won three play-off finals in lower tiers – including a big day out against Bristol Rovers in 1995. More classic finals: Swindon 4-3 Leicester in 1993, Ipswich 4-2 Barnsley in 2000 and, perhaps best of all, Charlton 4-4 Sunderland (7-6 on pens) in 1998.
5) It’s French Open season, too. Last year Novak Djokovic beat Andy Murray in the men’s final, while Garbiñe Muguruza shocked Serena Williams in the women’s. Rafael Nadal is favourite, chasing a 10th title at Roland Garros, so here are five standout victories in Paris from the king of clay. You have to go much further back for the last French men’s singles champion – Yannick Noah, in 1983 – and not quite so far back for the last French female winner – Mary Pierce, in 2000. Nothing says clay-court tennis like endless, exhausting rallies – so enjoy five of the best:
6) Finally, 30 Liverpool U-9s versus Philippe Coutinho and Gini Wijnaldum. They called it a draw.


1) “Oh that is just pretty… that is beautiful.” In the NBA Western Conference finals, San Antonio Spurs’ 39-year-old Manu Ginobili nutmegs the Golden State Warriors’ David West:
2) A tackling masterclass from the AFL, as Geelong Cats repeatedly repel the Western Bulldogs.
3) And here’s a proper pre-match pep talk: Arminia Bielefeld’s assistant coach Carsten Rump getting his struggling side worked up before they faced second-placed Eintracht Braunschweig in Bundesliga 2. They went out and won it 6-0.
The best motivational speech of the season? We definitely think so! 😲⚽️👇 pic.twitter.com/eKotfoCVce
Spotters’ badges: Oommph, TheCedarRoom, whobroughtoranges
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Every season, Major League Soccer has a crop of breakout players who are new to the league – this year we have Atlanta’s Josef Martínez (the Venezuelan who scored five goals in his first three matches – after netting just seven in three years with Turin). The best of these players often come from Europe or South America and immediately become key starters.
This year, there have been more examples of domestic players moving from the US lower divisions and succeeding in MLS than any year in recent memory. New York Red Bulls center back Aaron Long made his MLS debut in March and has started 13 matches for a potential MLS Cup contender. Meanwhile, expansion side Minnesota United has gotten crucial minutes from NASL domestic holdovers Christian Ramirez and Brent Kallman. Impressively, Ramirez has seven goals in his first 12 MLS matches, three off the Golden Boot pace.
It raises the question: how does a player like Ramirez slip through MLS clubs’ scouting? After all, the striker had 51 goals in the second-division NASL from 2014-2016 – more than any American striker in any league over that time.
For years, MLS has had a perceived issue signing top talent from the US lower divisions – and for a league still on the rise, the idea of bringing in talent from overseas may seem like a sexier route. But given concerns over the effects of travel, the general physicality of the league, and a league-wide mission to grow academies still being fostered, signing talent from the NASL and USL is gaining importance.
One agent, who asked to remain anonymous, has noticed front offices are wary of bringing these players on. At the center of their concerns is a perceived lack of quality in both NASL and USL. “The lower divisions in other countries are better than the lower divisions in our country right now. The [Matteo] Mancosus and Bradley Wright-Phillipses needed a fresh start and wanted to try something new. You can’t compare Mancosu to a guy in the NASL. It’s so rare to have a guy at that level.”
Amos Magee joined Minnesota’s front office in November 2016 as the club began to build their inaugural MLS roster. Previously, he had worked in Portland, where he recommended a drafted-and-cut rookie named Miguel Ibarra to Minnesota who were then in the NASL. Ibarra was sold in 2015 to Liga MX side Club León for a transfer fee around $1m. Despite the fact that Ibarra had received a few USMNT call-ups while still in the NASL, no MLS club wanted to come close to that figure. Magee told the Guardian that some clubs still are wary to sign second-division players.
“In the past, MLS teams haven’t valued lower-division players to the point of a million dollars. Now, a lot of MLS teams will argue that they may have been wrong. If Ramirez scores as many goals as we think he can, a lot of teams would have spent that much on him, too.”
For Minnesota, however, the abbreviated roster-building timeline presented unique challenges. The club had the rights to any desired holdovers from their NASL side. With Magee and newly appointed head coach Adrian Heath coming in as outsiders, they were able to assess Minnesota’s talent pool with a clearer lens.
“We sorted through players that we thought could take the step forward, and I think it’s turned out that they’re a very important part of our team. Now, we don’t look at them as ‘NASL guys’ as everyone else does. We look at them as players of import on our roster.”
Matt Cairns (a Hertfordshire-born intermediary who represents players in MLS as well as NASL and USL) represents many players who are of interest to MLS sides. To Cairns, there still remains hesitancy to sign players from the leagues below.
“I don’t understand it,” Cairns says of the reluctance. Some NASL clubs ask for transfer fees of merely $50,000 or so depending on the player. “Minnesota priced Ramirez highly, but there wasn’t an MLS team that tested the water. Why didn’t a team that couldn’t score goals take a flier? He’s a final piece of the puzzle for teams that have creative play. Why wouldn’t you pay $50,000 for a chance?”
Along with the aforementioned Kallman, among Cairns’ players are Nazmi Albadawi, currently being scouted by Real Salt Lake and Sporting Kansas City. As the player becomes a free agent in the winter, he’ll face better prospects to come along to MLS. In a sense, Ramirez may be the player who opens the door for many after him.
In 2013, MLS and USL forged a partnership to increase the development of young players in the country. It gave MLS sides the chance to have affiliates or “second teams” to help prospects get key minutes. With the USL as an independent league, not all USL sides are MLS affiliates, similar to FC Barcelona B competing in the Spanish Segunda at times.
One of these non-affiliated clubs, FC Cincinnati, is among the hottest teams in the American soccer landscape. They began play last spring to record-breaking crowds, even hosting Crystal Palace for a summer friendly. FCC is also in the midst of an MLS expansion bid, hoping to enter as soon as 2020. General manager Jeff Berding acknowledges that potential berth weighs into future decisions.
“We believe we have young guys that have really high upside. By the time we’d get to MLS, they could have a future shortly after we’d get there, knock on wood that we do.”
Not all of these players, of course, are prospects. Austin Berry won MLS Rookie of the Year in 2012 and signed with his hometown club in Cincinnati in 2016. Per Berding, “we were looking forward to bringing him home as a foundational player for our franchise. He had some interest, and we were able to get him to Cincinnati.”
Another, Sean Okoli, had struggled to find minutes with Seattle Sounders and New England Revolution before 2016. He ended up signing with FC Cincinnati, winning the Golden Boot, and secured a move back to the top flight with New York City FC the next offseason. Unlike Berry, signing Okoli always seemed like a one-year-plan to Berding.
“It was my understanding that we’d have Sean Okoli for the entire 2016 season. Part of our agreement was that we gave him a free transfer window up to MLS at the end of the season. We’re thrilled for Sean Okoli – this is exactly what we had in mind. He scored a lot of goals and helped us have a winning season, and he got back to MLS in one year. It’s an affirmation of what we’re trying to do here.”
As for the affiliated sides, there’s less of an onus on winning and more of a focus on development. The most successful versions of these sides often train in an MLS club’s backyard, sometimes sharing the same name (as with the previously mentioned Red Bulls II side). For clubs that have yet to set up a home-based affiliate, a player’s development can become stunted.
The aforementioned anonymous agent used FC Dallas as an example. “Of the FC Dallas homegrowns, you’ve got Kellyn Acosta, Victor Ulloa, and Jesse González. Of the other 15 or 16, they’re not getting minutes and their development is stunted. How many have failed? Oklahoma is an actual franchise trying to win. That doesn’t help these Homegrowns who are going back and forth three or four hours between Dallas and Oklahoma.”
With many of the “II” sides, players will dress in the first team’s 18 on Saturday and, if they go without playing, will start with the USL affiliate the next day. When a player is loaned to a club that’s outside of the first team’s control, these players sometimes slip through the cracks.
The agent continued: “Everyone has to play, no matter where they are. They have to be getting minutes. If they don’t, they can’t develop. You can’t tell what a kid can do without a steady run of games over a long time. They need to mess up and go through the mental adversity. It’s a bigger part than people realize.”
With two very different mentalities from club to club, the US lower divisions are still very much developing. Each MLS club seems to need to make a decision: commit to an affiliation that develops players and forgo expectations of winning trophies, or try to build the best second-division side possible, whether that means academy prospects get minutes or not.
Until then, there will always be hidden gems in the lower divisions. Ramirez may be a litmus test and, if he continues to pass, could be seen as the American Jamie Vardy. Both were players who didn’t land with top-flight programs right away. Both toiled in the lower divisions, ultimately landing with a club that made a move to the highest league in their country. For Minnesota, they can only hope Ramirez’s goal tally also follows the Vardy narrative.
The last time I tipped Shady McCoy (2.35), he was a 50-1 shot in a 27-runner race, finishing strongly into fourth. Today in a much smaller field, with the consequent risk of a weaker pace, he’s much shorter at 4-1. Hmmm, going in again in these circumstances is not generally the right thing to do and may indicate that you’re just following a horse over a cliff.
But I see a strong case for him again, even if I’d rather be taking the 15-2 that was briefly available when betting began on this race. He’s a hold-up type but I feel the tactics were overdone in the Victoria Cup, when he was in a share of last place at the two pole.
He runs off the same mark here, just 2lb higher than when finishing strongly to score over this course and distance in July. He also won around this track on his previous visit, in June 2015.
Silvestre de Sousa gets the ride this time, which is encouraging. I’ll give him a chance against the likes of Horsted Flaming Keynes and Castle Harbour, with whom John Gosden is reaching for cheekpieces.
Hugo Palmer has the favourite in a later maiden on the card, which seems a good opportunity to look for an alternative at a bigger price, in view of his yard seeming under a cloud just now. That could be overplayed, of course, and Palmer won a maiden just yesterday but he’s on a most unfamiliar 7% strike-rate just now.
Button Up (4.55) appeals at 6-1. She’s a half-sister to Stargazer and Stravagante, who both came good at about this stage of their three-year-old seasons. Her December debut showed only modest promise but Sir Michael Stoute’s filly should be able to take a big step forward now.
Sandown stages the best evening card of the year but I find myself struggling to look past the obvious ones. Sound And Silence should win the National Stakes and Big Orange stands out in the Henry II. I’m only spared putting up So Mi Dar in the Brigadier Gerard by the fact that her blood picture is unpleasing in some way, so she’s become a non-runner.
I wonder if Algometer (7.35) might be over-priced at 12-1 for that race, now that David Simcock seems to have turned the corner and had both the placed horses in Saturday’s Lockinge. Algometer ran well over this course and distance on his seasonal return a year ago. He is also the only horse to beat Dartmouth in a non-Group One contest since 2015. Perhaps he might need more juice in the ground than he’ll get here.
I also like Silver Ghost (6.00), who is favourite for the opening 10-furlong handicap but at a semi-respectable 5-1. For some reason, he only racked up five runs for Peter Makin and then Geoffrey Deacon but he’s now with the in-form Eve Johnson Houghton and ran well on his debut for her at Lingfield. Returning to turf should help this grey, who has a bit of a stride on him.
Catterick 1.50 Time Trail 2.20 Rebel Assault 2.55 Mr Strutter 3.30 Extrasolar 4.05 Veiled Secret 4.40 Juan Horsepower 5.15 Cupid’s Arrow 5.45 Thornaby Princess
Goodwood 2.00 Masar 2.35 Shady McCoy (nap) 3.10 October Storm 3.45 Secret Advisor 4.20 Icespire 4.55 Button Up 5.25 Captain Ryan
Warwick 2.10 Blairs Cove 2.45 Excellent Team 3.20 Exxaro 3.55 Derrintogher Bliss 4.30 Festive Affair 5.05 Bronco Billy 5.35 Nuclear
Chelmsford 5.50 Kiringa 6.20 Scribner Creek 6.55 Ebtkaar 7.25 Melting Dew 8.00 Noble Gift 8.30 Sans Souci Bay 9.00 Suzi Icon
Sandown 6.00 Silver Ghost (nb) 6.30 Sound And Silence 7.05 Big Orange 7.35 So Mi Dar (non-runner) 8.10 Zainhom 8.40 Makzeem
Everton have held talks with Cuco Martina over signing the Southampton defender on a free transfer.
The 27-year-old is out of contract at St Mary’s Stadium this month and open to a move having failed to secure a regular place in Claude Puel’s team this season, making only 18 appearances in all competitions.
Ronald Koeman, who worked with the Dutch defender at Southampton and considered an approach for the former FC Twente player last year, wants cover at right-back because of Seamus Coleman’s long-term injury.
Coleman will be absent when next season begins as he recovers from a double leg fracture. Mason Holgate deputised for the Republic of Ireland captain last term and Everton also have Jonjoe Kenny emerging through the ranks, with the full-back impressing in the under-23s Premier League Two title win.
But Koeman believes more experience is needed and Martina’s ability to also play in central defence make him an appealing option on a free.
It is rare to see a final contested between teams using such utterly different approaches, and equally rare for the game to pan out so predictably. Ajax had plenty of the ball, Manchester United counterattacked and proved more ruthless in the penalty area.
The stylistic contrast was remarkable. Ajax are a possession-based side rejuvenated under their attack-minded coach, Peter Bosz, a man who greatly admired Pep Guardiola’s Barcelona side, and in transferring that template on to his young charges, was also creating something of a throwback to Ajax’s Total Football days. If Bosz was playing the role of 2010 Guardiola, José Mourinho was playing the role of, well, 2010 Mourinho. The man who repeatedly tried to frustrate that Barcelona side with resilient deep defending and sporadic counterattacking did largely the same here.
The early stages were slightly different. Ajax started extraordinarily nervily, making defensive errors and misplacing simple passes inside their own half. It is doubtful whether Mourinho actually asked United to push up and press in the opening stages but they were nevertheless encouraged to by Ajax’s sheer carelessness, forcing repeated spells of pressure. The Dutch side took 10 minutes to settle down and enjoy a spell of possession, and then the pattern became as expected.
United went ahead just when Ajax were growing into the game. Paul Pogba’s opener owed much to a fortunate deflection but Ajax were the architects of their own downfall. Left-back Jaïro Riedewald, one of the few Ajax players who had started brightly, misplaced a throw-in, United won the ball quickly and eventually, Pogba pounced. Ajax had played their way into danger, which looked inevitable from the opening stages.
United’s approach without possession was simple. Juan Mata and Henrikh Mkhitaryan dropped back and tracked the Ajax full-backs, a role they have become accustomed to in recent weeks, while United’s central midfielders effectively man-marked in midfield. Marouane Fellaini played at the top of the trio and prevented passes into Lasse Schöne, Pogba was to the left and shut down Davy Klaassen, and Ander Herrera played a right-of-centre midfield role and was always checking on the position of Hakim Ziyech. It was the type of approach United have deployed regularly over the last few years, including under former Ajax manager Louis van Gaal.
It was surprising Ajax looked so clueless about how to break down a strategy hardly unfamiliar to Dutch sides. Their defenders occasionally brought the ball forward impressively but movement in central midfield – the very thing Ajax are famed for – was sorely lacking. The left-winger Amin Younes, renowned for his dribbling skills, tended to drift inside too early – which also left space for the United right-back, Antonio Valencia, to sprint into. He burst forward on a couple of occasions, stinging the palms of Andre Onana with a powerful shot.
Right-sided Bertrand Traoré found Matteo Darmian in excellent form, while the centre-forward Kasper Dolberg barely had a touch before being substituted after an hour. He appeared off the pace, notably being beaten to the ball by Daley Blind on a couple of occasions. Physically United looked dominant, stronger and quicker than their youthful, inexperienced opponents. There is a sense Ajax, drilled so relentlessly in such a specific philosophy, lacked a Plan B. That is understandable considering the youthfulness of the side, still developing individually and collectively, but having gone behind they never seemed likely to launch a comeback.
Mkhitaryan’s clever finish at a set-piece put United 2-0 ahead and meant the pattern of the game was even more defined. It was a classic performance from a Mourinho team in a European final – this could have been Porto’s 3-0 win over Monaco in 2004, or Inter’s 2-0 victory against Bayern Munich in 2010. Sit back, soak up pressure, counterattack.
It is Mourinho’s tried-and-tested approach, and while United fans might tire of watching it for 60 games a season, it generally proves extremely effective in finals, and Mourinho has two cup victories to show for his first season at Old Trafford.
Google’s Go-playing AI has won its second game against the world’s best player of the ancient Asian board game, Chinese 19-year-old Ke Jie, taking the three-game match in the process.
AlphaGo, the AI created by Google subsidiary DeepMind, reported that Ke’s first 50 moves were “played perfectly”, according to DeepMind chief executive Demis Hassabis. In the post-game press conference, Hassabis, who was a child chess prodigy, said: “For the first 100 moves, it was the closest we’ve ever seen anyone play against the Master version of AlphaGo.”
“Ke Jie pushed AlphaGo right to the limit,” Hassabis added on Twitter.
#AlphaGo wins game 2. What an amazing and complex game! Ke Jie pushed AlphaGo right to the limit.
After narrowly losing the first match, a visibly shaken Ke had described AlphaGo’s latest version as “godlike”. This time, he was more relaxed: “Today’s game was different from the first. AlphaGo made some moves which were opposite from my vision of how to maximise the possibility of winning. I also thought I was very close to winning the game in the middle but maybe that’s not what AlphaGo was thinking. I’m a little bit sad, it’s a bit of a regret because I think I played pretty well.”
The victory indisputably marks AlphaGo’s ranking as better than any human player alive today, just over a year after it was first revealed to the world in an article published in the scientific journal Nature. Following its debut, a victory behind closed doors against professional Go player Fan Hui, the AI went on to compete in a widely publicised match against Korea’s Lee Sedol. Sedol, the Roger Federer of Go, lost the match four games to one.
AlphaGo is playing Ke as part of the “Future of Go” summit held by Google in China this week. As well as the third game between the pair, held on Saturday, Google is also putting AlphaGo through a pair of exhibition matches designed to test the limits of its performance: in one, the AI will be acting as team-mate to a pair of professionals playing against each other, taking every other turn in an effort to see how the AI and humans adapt to each other’s style of play; in the other, it will take on five professionals working in concert to try and outfox it.
Even though the matches are being held in China, Chinese residents won’t be able to watch them live. The state has sent out a censorship notice to online broadcasters, warning them against carrying any live coverage of Ke’s matches. YouTube, where Google is hosting the official feed, is also blocked in the country.
The New Zealand cricketer Doug Bracewell has been sentenced to 100 hours of community service for a third drink-driving offence after blaming the killing of a pet cockatoo by dogs for his decision to drive home drunk from a function.
The 26-year-old fast bowler was pulled over by police in March and returned a blood-alcohol reading more than three times the legal limit.
His lawyer told the Hastings District Court that Bracewell had been drinking at a function when his girlfriend called him in distress after their cockatoo was killed by dogs they were minding for a friend, the local newspaper Hawke’s Bay Today reported on Thursday.
Judge Bridge Mackintosh also disqualified him from driving for a year and said the 27-Test cricketer had let himself, his family and New Zealand Cricket down.
“This offending in my submissions should be seen as an unfortunate hiccup and something that doesn’t reflect the man he has become or the sportsman,” the newspaper quoted Mackintosh as saying.
New Zealand Cricket (NZC) said it would not impose any additional penalty. “NZC notes Mr Bracewell suffered a serious leg injury in February and is unlikely to resume his competitive cricket career until next summer,” local media quoted the organisation as saying in a statement.
“Under these circumstances, and considering the penalty imposed in the Hastings District Court today, NZC will be taking no further punitive action.”
Bracewell, who has also played 14 one-day internationals and 14 Twenty20 internationals, was previously caught drink driving in 2008 and 2010 and has been involved in a string of alcohol-fuelled incidents.
He was banned for a match in 2012 after he and former New Zealand batsman Jesse Ryder were involved in an altercation with a person at a Napier bar while out drinking.
A year later he was ruled out of the first test against England in Dunedin after he cut his foot when stepping on glass during a clean-up for a party at his house. In 2014, he was fined after another late night out drinking with Ryder before a test against India.
Job done for Manchester United, then. And having become only the second English club to complete a clean sweep of the major European prizes, they’ll make like the first, Chelsea, and embark on a serious summer spending spree. Admittedly they’d have done this whatever the result last night, but after doing a comprehensive number on Ajax, they’ve earned the right to spoil themselves a little, huh.
The president of Atlético Madrid has gone on the radio to insist that Antoine Griezmann hasn’t asked for a move, and in any case nobody in their right mind would stump up the striker’s £85m release clause. United chief executive Ed Woodward stifles a yawn, licks the side of his thumb, and begins the big count. One, two, three...
United are also very interested in £50m Ross Barkley, having enjoyed good experiences of nicking off with Everton’s best young talent in the past. They’d also like Renato Sanches and Douglas Costa from Bayern Munich, though Juventus fancy that double swoop too, while Tottenham Hotspur will rival them for Costa. And they’ll also tighten up that stingy defence even further, with bids for Burnley’s Michael Keane and Benfica’s Victor Lindelof.
But it’s not all good news for the new Europa League champions, because Barcelona are after last night’s man of the match Ander Herrera. Hey, swings and roundabouts.
Celtic, one cup-final victory away from an unbeaten domestic season which would knock the Preston and Arsenal invincibles into a cocked hat, fancy snaffling some more young Premier League talent on loan, having done pretty darn well with Manchester City’s Patrick Roberts this season. Brendan Rodgers has a good idea what 20-year-old Liverpool winger Harry Wilson is about, so he’ll do.
Back in 2014, Derek McInnes led Aberdeen to their first trophy in 18 years, the Scottish League Cup. If he manages to ruin Celtic’s entire season at Hampden on Saturday, he’ll have won their first Scottish Cup for 27 years. Whatever happens in the big game, he deserves reward and recognition. All he’s getting, however, is a job offer from Sunderland. It’s not much to show for a life’s work, is it.
Newcastle United are in for Sporting Lisbon midfielder William Carvalho, a former hot new thing whose star has slightly faded of late, and 18-year-old Caen winger Yann Karamoh, whose star is very much rising. Ah Newcastle ... a beautiful star ... the Rumour Mill misses the old Broon-sponsored kit, Ossie Ardiles, the irregular stripes, all that. Wonga and Fun88 just don’t cut it.
West Bromwich Albion are also interested in Carvalho, plus Manchester City striker Kelechi Iheanacho. These attempts by Tony Pulis to take things up a notch and recreate some 1978-style sass-ball may be scuppered by either Everton, Southampton, West Ham or Borussia Dortmund, all of whom fancy the City substitute striker themselves.
Just in case that one falls through, West Ham have lined up Juventus striker Mario Mandzukic, though Besiktas are doing their best to jigger that deal too. It’s going to be a long summer for the Hammers. It’s going to be a long summer for us all. The transfer window isn’t even open yet. Good grief.
The Australian tennis great and Christian pastor Margaret Court has publicly announced she will stop using Qantas “where possible” in protest against the airline’s promotion of same-sex marriage.
“I am disappointed that Qantas has become an active promoter for same-sex marriage,” Court, who lives in Perth, said in the letter published in the West Australian newspaper. “I believe in marriage as a union between a man and a woman as stated in the Bible.
“Your statement leaves me no option but to use other airlines where possible for my extensive travelling.”
The nation’s other major domestic airline Virgin and its founder, Richard Branson, also support marriage equality.
The chief executive of Qantas, Alan Joyce, recently had a pie thrown in his face in front of hundreds of people at a business breakfast in Perth by Tony Overheu, 67.
Overheu said it was in protest against what he was said was “corporate bullying” including Joyce and 20 CEOs of major companies signing a joint letter in support of marriage equality. He was charged by police with assault and banned by Qantas.
Joyce, who is gay, has previously said there is a role for companies and chief executives to speak up on social as well as economic issues.
In an opinion piece for Guardian Australia, Joyce wrote: “Same-sex marriage isn’t a niche issue. It’s about basic rights and equality – the ‘fair go’ that’s such a fundamental Australian value.”
Court, 74, who is a senior pastor at Perth’s Victory Life church and has been a critic of homosexuality and same-sex marriage for decades, said in the letter she had proudly promoted Qantas during her days “of never losing a tennis match while playing for my country”.
“I love all people and will be pleased to talk to your board at any time,” she wrote. “But it won’t be in the Qantas lounge.”
The former women’s tennis world No 1 won a record 24 grand slam singles titles.
Five days after collapsing following a cardiac arrest during a rugby game, Nelson club rugby player Bevan Moody has died.
The 22-year-old prop had been in an induced coma at Nelson Hospital since Saturday after he collapsed in the second half of a division one match between his club Waitohi and Nelson.
Moody, who represented the Marlborough senior representative team while still at college, also represented Tasman at age-grade level.
He was a New Zealand Under-20 trialist, and on the fringes of selection for the Tasman national provincial championship team.
Moody’s family, partner Kendra and two-year-old daughter Maddison, are being supported by New Zealand Rugby, and the Rugby Foundation, an organisation which supports injured rugby players and their families.
“It’s gutting to see a young man die while playing the game he loved. It’s wrong and hard to make sense of when someone dies at such a young age,” said NZR general manager of rugby Neil Sorensen.“I met Bevan at Under-20 camps, he was a neat young man and a talented player who had many years of rugby, but more importantly life, ahead of him. “Our thoughts go out to his family, especially his partner and his young daughter, and his team-mates who will be taking this sudden loss really hard. The immediate focus is ensuring Bevan’s family and his mates are fully supported.”
Moody is the second New Zealand rugby player to die in the space of a week after Daniel Baldwin, a 19-year-old player from Wellington, died in hospital following an on-field head injury in a match at Ngati Toa Domain, north of Porirua.
José Mourinho stated his hope that Manchester United’s success in Wednesday night’s Europa League final had brought some happiness to the city following the terrorist bombing at the Manchester Arena, while the midfielder Paul Pogba dedicated the victory over Ajax to “England, Manchester and the people who died”.
Pogba scored the 18th-minute opener before Henrikh Mkhitaryan doubled the lead for a 2-0 win over the Dutch side in Stockholm. It came two days after the terrorist attack that killed 22 people, some children, and injured scores more.
Mourinho said: “You know, it was really hard, that is why we didn’t want to have the press conference [before the final] because we had to prepare ourselves to do our job and to try to organise events that are much more important than our job. But the world goes on and does not stop and we have to do our work.
“I agree with Uefa’s decision to play the match now. It obviously takes happiness from our achievement. If we could we would change peoples lives for this cup – we would not think twice. Does this cup make the city of Manchester a bit happier? Maybe. But we came to do our job and we can’t avoid the happiness because when you win you go away happy and proud. The boys were fantastic. They put on a block and stayed away from everything and concentrated on a football match, which we did very well.”
Pogba, their world-record £89m summer signing, said: “We know things like this are very sad, all over the world. We had to focus, it was very important. We won for Manchester, we worked for them, for the country. We play for England, for Manchester and for the people who died.”
Ander Herrera, voted the man of the match, said the club had been suffering on Tuesday, but echoed Pogba’s sentiments. “Yesterday morning we were devastated,” the midfielder said. “We were really sad because you think of life and football – you have no choice. It was difficult to train but the manager told us the only thing we could do is win this for them and that is what we have done. It is just a football game and a trophy but if we can help and support with this just 1% it is enough for us.”
Afterwards the victorious team and Mourinho posed by a large banner that read “Manchester – A City United”.
The victory means United have won every European club competition and will compete in next season’s Champions League competition. Mourinho has also won the club two major trophies in his first season after lifting the EFL Cup in February.
He also aimed a barb at those managers he described as “poets” who do not win anything. “There are lots of poets in football, the poets don’t win many titles, we knew where they were better than us, and us better than them,” he said. “It is the end of a difficult season but a very good season, we prefer this way than finish fourth. We win a title, an important title, that closes the lot – we have now won every [European] title in world football.”
Mourinho’s tally is two Champions League and two Europa Leagues, having also won the latter when it was the Uefa Cup.
He said: “I am very humble when I play finals. I make my final respect the strength of the opponent and understand their weakness so if I say something about my finals, something about my team is they are always humble.
“Now I don’t want to see any football, or any international friendlies. It was hard to organise this last couple of months, very hard, short on numbers, trying to rest players, trying not to have very bad results. The kids were amazing, [they] managed to finish with some dignity. Three trophies in season [he includes the Community Shield]. I am really happy with players after my most difficult season as a manager.”
The manager indicated Wayne Rooney, a late substitute, could stay. “He can be here next season and he is an important player. If he stays I am happy,” the manager said.
At the end, delirious scenes greeted this triumph. As the Manchester United substitutes and staff flooded on to the pitch to hug the players, José Mourinho wagged a finger and was hailed by the supporters sent into ecstasy by an emphatic victory over Ajax.
The injured Zlatan Ibrahimovic was irrepressible as he took a selfie with the suspended Eric Bailly by the trophy. Next, Mourinho jigged with his squad and, finally, the late substitute Wayne Rooney lifted the Europa League cup to mark a fitting end to a match played against the harrowing backdrop of Monday’s bombing at the Manchester Arena.
A rousing rendition of the club song Glory Glory, Man United had lifted the mood before the sides walked out. This was followed by a heart-warming offering of another United favourite, Take Me Home. Here was the answer to the question of how noisy fans would be following the attack. Further emotion was displayed during the minute’s silence which became an impromptu 60-second appreciation as the United congregation, understandably, broke into chanting for their city.
It came after a pre-match ceremony that was toned down by Uefa. Now, on a balmy Stockholm night, the contest began. A big question was how Mourinho’s men would react to the atrocity that killed 22 people and injured 59. In the side was Wythenshawe-born Marcus Rashford while Jesse Lingard, from Warrington, came on as a second-half replacement. Each faced their own challenge owing to the resonance of being local boys.
Rashford again proved unfazed. The 19-year-old was constantly sought out by Paul Pogba, whose pinging balls over the top into space were designed to utilise the teenager’s pace.
Pogba’s radar had been awry but he gave hope to the club, and all those who feel for Manchester, by putting United ahead. The midfielder’s shot took a considerable detour via Davinson Sánchez but who would begrudge the men in blue some fortune? Before this first European final for United since the 2011 Champions League the atmosphere had gone from muted to boisterous on the city’s streets. This was due to an Ajax contingent who seemed to easily outnumber their counterparts but as the beer flowed United fans’ chanting about their beloved club increased.
When Ajax’s players took a pre-match stroll to the centre circle they were greeted by a wall of sound that gave the Friends Arena a cauldron-like feel. Alan Keegan, the Old Trafford announcer co-opted by Uefa, began to redress this imbalance by asking United followers about their best memories. Broadcast over the stadium PA one said: “Tonight it’s about Manchester.” By the time United trotted out the end nearest them was rammed with red shirts in fine voice.
Ajax had been touted as a young side who are a throwback to the expressive era of Johan Cryuff. United’s mission was to impose themselves and to ensure the Dutch team’s rhythm was disturbed. In the opening 30 minutes this was achieved. Yet then, as would be expected, came a passage of incessant harry and smother from Ajax as United were pinned into the middle third of their territory. Now, though, the fierce focus Mourinho’s men possessed came to the fore. Pogba, Ander Herrera, Matteo Darmian, and Daley Blind were at the forefront of a determined effort. This had United snapping at their opponents and ensured their lead was intact when the interval arrived.
It had been a watchable opening period, particularly for a final. United stood 45 minutes away from claiming the one major trophy that has eluded them and offering some succour to their broken-hearted home town.
As his players lined up for a second half that would define their summer transfer market prospects and decide if it would be Champions League or Europa League football next season, Mourinho was seen sporting a rare smile.
It was about to broaden widely after Henrikh Mkhitaryan hooked past André Onana to send the travelling faithful into rapture. The midfielder said: “Thank you to my team-mates because without them I could not have scored so many goals. Everyone said I was going to score in the final and I did thanks to my team-mates. Now we are playing in the Champions League next year.”
After his goal the supporters sang several songs and United continued to try to take the match to Ajax, primarily through Rashford’s speed. By the close Peter Bosz’s side had been stymied expertly by Mourinho’s strategy and United had won their second trophy this year.
Juan Mata said: “We have won a trophy the club has never won so we are really happy. After what happened [on Monday] it is nice to bring a trophy back for Manchester. It has been a really difficult week in the city of Manchester and we are happy to win for all the people that have suffered.”
Expect the homecoming to be an outpouring of emotion. There may be a parade though this will be subject to security concerns. But one ending at the venue where so much heartbreak occurred might aid the healing process. It would also illustrate the city’s spirit and show those intent on ending the country’s way of life they will never succeed.
London Irish secured an instant return to the Premiership as they beat Yorkshire Carnegie 55-48 in an enthralling encounter at the Madejski Stadium.
Leading 29-18 following last week’s Championship final first-leg win at Headingley, Irish completed the job in style in front of their own fans to banish the memories of last season’s relegation with an 84-66 aggregate victory.
In an exhilarating first 20 minutes, the two sides traded tries in a manner more befitting sevens rugby as Canada international Ciaran Hearn and scrum-half Brendan McKibbin’s efforts for Irish were cancelled out by Seb Stegmann and Mike Mayhew.
But after an even first quarter, the hosts demonstrated the class that saw them lose just one game en route to finishing top of the regular season table as Fergus Mulchrone, Alex Lewington (twice), McKibbin and the boot of Tommy Bell helped them run riot.
Ben West, Sione Faletau, Stegmann’s second and a penalty try for the visitors at least made the scoreline respectable, while Charlie Beech and Ben Franks were shown late red cards for punching.
“My overriding emotions are relief and happiness,” said Nick Kennedy, the London Irish director of rugby.
“We did make it hard work but Yorkshire came out swinging and scored more points here than any other team has. We’re delighted to be back in the Premiership, which is where the club belongs,” he added.
“Over the season, and over the two legs, the best team won - it’s as simple as that,” said Bryan Redpath, Carnegie’s director of rugby.
“Hopefully the boys will learn from the experience over the two legs and losing to a Premiership outfit.”
Facing an 11-point deficit, Carnegie desperately needed to fly out of the blocks in Reading but instead they dropped the opening kick-off and from the resulting scrum the ball was spread to Hearn, who ran through a couple of arm tackles for the easiest of tries.
Bell, who was otherwise impeccable from the tee, missed the conversion and his audacious offload attempt then failed miserably, allowing Elder to feed Stegmann for the perfect Carnegie response.
Irish’s second try came when Lewington’s neat inside offload found McKibbin running an unstoppable angle to scythe through a static defence, but Carnegie hooker Mayhew did his best impression of a scrum-half on 20 minutes, sniping from the base of a ruck on the 22 and rumbling over to narrow the aggregate deficit to six points.
That was as good as it got for the visitors however, as a 35-metre Bell penalty gave the Exiles breathing space, which was increased as Mulchrone jinked his way over from close range before the break.
Joe Ford slotted a Yorkshire penalty on the stroke of half-time but then Lewington scored one of the tries of the season, beating five men to score from halfway, before McKibbin burrowed over. Lewington then seized on a loose ball for his second to put the tie out of reach.
Bell booted four further penalties as Irish ran riot before Carnegie started to make the score respectable. West went over for his own close-range try and the visitors were awarded a penalty try for Tom Court’s deliberate offside.
Front-rowers Beech and Franks were shown red for punching each other as the game degenerated slightly and although Faletau and Stegmann grabbed further consolation for the visitors, it proved to be a dream evening for Premiership-bound Irish.
Tiger Woods said he’s feels better than he’s felt in years and “unequivocally” wants to play professional golf again, but it won’t be happening any time soon.
The 14-times major champion said in a statement posted to his website on Wednesday that he underwent fusion surgery on 19 April as a last resort and outlined a long-term prognosis he described as “positive.”
“We tried every possible non-surgical route and nothing worked,” said Woods of the fourth procedure he’s undergone on his back since 2014. “I had good days and bad days, but the pain was usually there, and I couldn’t do much. Even lying down hurt. I had nerve pain with anything I did and was at the end of my rope. The process leading up to my decision to have surgery was exhaustive. I consulted with a specialist, and after weighing my options, that’s when I decided to go to Texas to have surgery.”
The 41-year-old, who in April ruled himself out of the Masters for the third time in four years, said “it is hard to express how much better I feel” after experiencing “instant nerve relief”, adding that “I haven’t felt this good in years.”
But Woods stressed that he will not be hurrying back to the tour after a period of recovery that will see him from swinging a club for several months.
“I can’t twist for another two and a half to three months,” Woods said. “Right now, my sole focus is rehab and doing what the doctors tell me. I am concentrating on short-term goals.”
Woods’ season ended almost before it started in February, after he withdrew following a first-round 77 at an event in Dubai. That came one week after he missed the cut at the Farmers Insurance Open.
“I did everything I could to play at Augusta and was ready to go,” he said. “Unfortunately, it was kind of like the 2008 US Open [where Woods won despite playing with a leg fracture]. The pain was post-impact when I swung the club. I figured, ‘Can I handle it?’ This time the answer was, ‘Probably not.’ That shows the effect that nerve pain can have.
Woods touched on other topics in the 986-word statement, including his charitable foundation, his recent book on his 1997 Masters breakthrough and his predicted winner for the upcoming NBA finals: the Golden State Warriors.
Arsène Wenger has hinted that Petr Cech will start in goal for Arsenal in Saturday’s FA Cup final against Chelsea rather than David Ospina and the manager admitted Kieran Gibbs was an injury doubt, deepening his defensive selection crisis.
Wenger played Ospina, his second-choice goalkeeper, in all eight of the club’s Champions League ties this season, plus the early rounds of the FA Cup. But he went with Cech for the quarter-final against Lincoln City and the semi-final against Manchester City and he is expected to persist with the 35-year-old to face his former club at Wembley.
Ospina’s longer-term future at Arsenal is in doubt. The Colombia international has had enough with being a substitute for the majority of his three years at the club.
Wenger has previously favoured his back-up goalkeeper on FA Cup runs. In 2013-14 he played Lukasz Fabianski in every round, ahead of Wojciech Szczesny, as Arsenal won the trophy and in 2014-15 he relied upon Szczesny from the fourth round onwards after Szczesny had been displaced by Ospina as the No1. Arsenal again won the trophy. This time, though, it would be a surprise if he did not pick Cech.
When it was put to Wenger that he had usually gone with Ospina in the cup competitions this season, he replied: “No. In the semi-final [against City], Cech played. Will Cech play against Chelsea? It is possible. We will see.”
Wenger’s problems in defence have been triggered by Shkodran Mustafi’s struggles to overcome the concussion he suffered in the home win over Sunderland on Tuesday of last week and Gibbs’s thigh injury, which ruled him out of the home win against Everton on Sunday. Wenger said that Gibbs had been unable to train this week.
The manager has ruled out Gabriel Paulista until August with the medial knee ligament injury suffered against Everton and Laurent Koscielny is suspended after being sent off in the same fixture.
The positives on the fitness front are that Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is back in training after a hamstring problem and is in contention to feature in the final and that Alexis Sánchez, who has carried a thigh injury, should also be OK.
Mustafi was forced to sit out the Everton game and he has reported dizziness when he has attempted to run in training. Wenger said that the Germany centre-half had not been able to train properly which, with the final so close and in light of the Football Association’s strict guidelines on when a player can return from a head injury, is not a good sign.
Mustafi was asked day morning whether he would be clear to play at Wembley. He did not break stride and made no comment.
Wenger said that he would have to consider whether to revert to a flat back four against Chelsea because of his lack of central defensive numbers and so move away from the 3-4-2-1 formation with which he has enjoyed successes over recent weeks.
If Mustafi, as expected, does not make it and Wenger were to stick with his back three, he would most likely have to start with Per Mertesacker, who played his first football in 13 months as a 53rd-minute substitute against Everton. Mertesacker has been out with knee trouble. Either Oxlade-Chamberlain or Héctor Bellerín could be asked to fill in at left wing-back in place of Gibbs, with the other one playing on the right.
“We still have some worries about Mustafi,” Wenger said. “He’s still sick at the moment and has not trained yet. Will he play? I don’t know. I have to listen to medical people.
“Gabriel is out for six to eight weeks. We had a scare about his cruciate but it’s only a medial knee ligament, so the positive is that he avoids surgery. He’s out until the beginning of August now, certainly.
“It just shows you how unpredictable football can be because we played at home against Everton, your mind is on attacking and, on the day, we lost two centre-backs [Gabriel and Koscielny]. It’s absolutely unbelievable and unpredictable, and we have been hit hard in a position where we will need to be strong on Saturday.
“We’ll have to find solutions and, hopefully, I will find the good solutions. I have until Saturday to decide [about a formation change]. We’ll test that in training until Saturday.
“Alexis is all right. He needs to go through some tests at the moment and we’ll see how well he comes out of that. Knowing the player, knowing his character and knowing his commitment for the club, which I don’t question at all, he’ll do absolutely everything to be fit for Saturday. Chamberlain is in contention because he’s back in training.”
On Mertesacker, Wenger added: “He has the leadership qualities. It depends a little bit on the system I will go for. He has not played 90 minutes for a long time.”
A number of England players could face New Zealand at Twickenham this autumn after all with the Barbarians hopeful Eddie Jones will agree to release a few of his prized assets to play for them on 4 November.
The All Blacks turned down the RFU’s lucrative proposal of a match against England, instead honouring their agreement to a match with the Baa-Baas to mark their 125th anniversary, denying Jones the chance to pit his side against the world champions.
England do not begin their autumn campaign until a week later against Argentina before hosting Australia and Samoa. They are scheduled to face New Zealand only once before the 2019 World Cup – in the autumn of 2018 – and while 15 members of Jones’s side will be on the British & Irish Lions tour, the opportunity for some of his players to face the All Blacks at Twickenham may be appealing to the coach. The Barbarians are also hopeful of reaching a similar agreement with Premiership clubs over their overseas names.
The Barbarians face England at Twickenham on Sunday when Alex Goode will be presented with the opportunity to prove to Jones that size does not matter. Goode has fallen out of favour with Jones since his last England appearance in November to the extent he was not even named in the squad to tour Argentina.
His continued snub is bewildering to say the least considering his form for Saracens – he scored the decisive try in the Champions Cup final against Clermont to cap a magnificent display, forcing Jones to explain his omission by saying: “Sometimes you can be a great player in a great side but not necessarily a great Test player.”
Jones has also recently claimed he needs “some more size in the backs” which may further explain the absence of Goode and the presence of uncapped wings Joe Cokanasiga and Nathan Earle on the plane to Argentina.
“There will always be a place for a ball-playing rugby player. My footwork, my ability to tackle and make breaks is still there,” Goode said. “That is a valuable asset. Wingers, since I have been playing, have only got bigger and faster and stronger. That has always been the case but I think the best backlines in the world always have a good combination of physicality, speed and good understanding. You need that I think.
“I’m lucky to be part of a great club at Saracens where we have big games. Eddie talks about playing well in those big games. I’m really happy with my form so all I can do is play well and put my best foot forward. Ultimately it comes down to Eddie’s decision – it is his opinion on whether you’re a Test player or not and I’ve got to try somehow to persuade him.”
Goode was a late call-up to the Barbarians squad but while he was tempted to say no after Saracens’ gruelling Premiership semi-final defeat by Exeter, his family connections – his late grandfather John Vallance Owen was “best mates” with the Baa-Baas president, Micky Steele-Bodger – convinced him otherwise. “My grandad always talked about the Barbarians games he saw from many years ago down in Cardiff at the Arms Park,” Goode said. “I think Micky always wanted for me to play in the Barbarians shirt. I love singing the national anthem so it will be tough [on Sunday], maybe I’ll be humming in my head.”
And despite joking that his mum, Sarah, is a French teacher, he is not about to follow Chris Ashton in making a lucrative move across the Channel any time soon. “Never say never but I love Saracens and without getting too cheesy, I love the club and they’ve done a lot for me,” Goode said. “I want to stay around as long as they’ll keep me – maybe they’ll wheel me out as the kitman one day.”
London Irish secured an instant return to the Premiership as they beat Yorkshire Carnegie 55-48 in an enthralling encounter at the Madejski Stadium.
Leading 29-18 following last week’s Championship final first-leg win at Headingley, Irish completed the job in style in front of their own fans to banish the memories of last season’s relegation with an 84-66 aggregate victory.
In an exhilarating first 20 minutes the sides traded tries in a manner more befitting sevens rugby than XVs as Canada international Ciaran Hearn and scrum-half Brendan McKibbin’s efforts for Irish were cancelled out by Seb Stegmann and Mike Mayhew.
But after an even first quarter, the hosts demonstrated the class that saw them lose just one game en route to finishing top of the regular season table as Fergus Mulchrone, Alex Lewington (twice), McKibbin and the boot of Tommy Bell helped them run riot.
Ben West, Sione Faletau, Stegmann’s second and a penalty try for the visitors at least made the scoreline respectable, while Charlie Beech and Ben Franks were shown late red cards for punching.
Facing an 11-point deficit, Carnegie desperately needed to fly out of the blocks in Reading but instead they dropped the opening kick-off and from the resulting scrum the ball was spread to Hearn, who ran through a couple of arm tackles for the easiest of tries.
Bell, who was otherwise impeccable from the tee, missed the conversion and his audacious offload attempt then failed miserably, allowing Elder to feed Stegmann for the perfect Carnegie response.
Irish’s second try came when Lewington’s neat inside offload found McKibbin running an unstoppable angle to scythe through a static defence, but Carnegie hooker Mayhew did his best impression of a scrum-half on 20 minutes as he sniped from the base of a ruck on the 22 and rumbled over to narrow the aggregate deficit to six points.
That was as good as it got for the visitors, however, as a 35-metre Bell penalty gave the Exiles breathing space, which was increased as Mulchrone jinked his way over from close range before the break.
Joe Ford slotted a Yorkshire penalty on the stroke of half-time but then Lewington scored one of the tries of the season, beating five men to score from halfway, before McKibbin burrowed over. Lewington then seized on a loose ball for his second to put the tie out of reach.
Bell booted four further penalties as Irish ran riot before Carnegie started to make the score respectable as West went over for his own close-range try and the visitors were awarded a penalty try for Tom Court’s deliberate offside.
Front-rowers Beech and Franks were shown red for punching each other as the game degenerated slightly and although Faletau and Stegmann grabbed further consolation for the visitors, it was a dream evening for Premiership-bound Irish. PA
Jack Butland is to return to the England fold after a 14-month absence when Gareth Southgate announces his squad on Thursday for the World Cup qualifier away to Scotland and the friendly against France in Paris.
The Stoke City goalkeeper earned his fourth and most recent cap in the friendly win against Germany in Berlin in March 2016 but was substituted at half-time after fracturing his right ankle. His rehabilitation has proved a protracted process and he did not feature for his club again until late April but started Stoke’s final five games of the season.
The 24-year-old, who worked regularly with Southgate in the under-21s, was among those players invited to St George’s Park in March while the squad were preparing for games against Germany and Lithuania as the manager sought to impress on his staff his vision for the future. Butland will compete with Fraser Forster and Joe Hart for the games in Glasgow and Paris.
Wayne Rooney, relatively underused by Manchester United this season, is not expected to be included, an omission that could effectively signal the end of an international career that has spanned almost 14 years and brought 53 goals and 119 caps. He has not featured for Southgate’s side since the win over Scotland at Wembley in November, with his club form hardly meriting involvement.
As if signalling a changing of the guard, Rooney’s club-mate Marcus Rashford is likely to be included in the senior ranks rather than dropping back into Aidy Boothroyd’s under-21s for the summer’s European Championship in Poland. Southgate is understood to have spoken with José Mourinho to discuss the pair’s situation.
He is expected to announce his squad at midday once he has received reports from those involved in the Europa League final in Stockholm, with a number of other players likely to be omitted because of injury or fitness concerns. The Liverpool full-back Nathaniel Clyne is to miss out with a back problem and his club-mate Daniel Sturridge will also be omitted despite scoring in a post-season victory over Sydney FC on Wednesday.
Sturridge has required injections to manage a hip injury over recent weeks and will have more treatment on the problem. Liverpool have spoken at length with the Football Association and its medical department, with Southgate aware of the situation. Harry Kane, absent with ankle trouble in March, will return, with Jermain Defoe, who is close to leaving Sunderland for Bournemouth, left sweating over his own inclusion.
The Arsenal defender Kieran Gibbs could earn a recall for the injured Danny Rose and Luke Shaw, with Ryan Bertrand the only regular left-back available to Southgate. Danny Welbeck is struggling with a toe problem but is set to be named in the squad and will have his fitness assessed, most likely after Saturday’s FA Cup final.
The England squad will meet at St George’s Park on Friday of next week before travelling to Scotland six days later for the qualifier at Hampden Park. They will then depart for Paris before the game at Stade de France on Tuesday 13 June.
André Onana 6
An early mix-up with Veltman boded ill but he had no chance with either goal and little further opportunity to influence proceedings.
Joël Veltman 6
Fractious tussle with Mkhitaryan in the first half but made little genuine impact going forward and was rarely engaged defensively.
Matthijs de Ligt 7
The 17-year-old showed strength and doggedness beyond his years at centre-back and clearly has an exciting future.
Davinson Sánchez 8
Unlucky with the nick on Pogba’s goal, which cannot detract from an hugely impressive display. Fine late challenge on Lingard.
Jaïro Riedewald 5
Sloppy throw-in gifted United possession for their first goal and although the left-back was steady thereafter it proved costly.
Lasse Schöne 5
Experienced midfielder struggled to gain his side a foothold in an area United dominated physically from the opening moments.
Hakim Ziyech 6
Such a creative force at his best but, aside from one fine ball for Younes after the break, was kept away from dangerous areas.
Davy Klaassen 6
Captain tried to threaten with runs beyond the defence but had little joy and made scant impact in possession.
Bertrand Traoré 6
Forced Romero into a save after 15 minutes and was Ajax’s biggest first-half threat with some strong runs but influence faded.
Amin Younes 6
Showed his ability to take men on with two promising runs in the opening period but buzzed around to little further effect.
Kasper Dolberg 5
Barely had a kick although the supply lines were blocked and there was little support. Replaced just after the hour.
Substitutes
Neres 6 (for Dolberg, 62); Van de Beek 6 (for Schöne, 70); De Jong 6 (for Riedewald, 82)
Not used Boer, Tete, Westermann, Kluivert
Sergio Romero 6
Held a first-half shot from Traoré but was hardly extended otherwise, making David de Gea’s absence a non-issue.
Antonio Valencia 7
Tested Onana with his first run forwards and was rarely exposed by Younes’s dribbling skills at the other end.
Chris Smalling 8
Justified his selection by dominating Dolberg and was equally commanding when nodding down for Mkhitaryan’s strike.
Daley Blind 7
Kept his old team at bay with relative ease, mopping up whatever went astray around the box and tracking runners carefully.
Matteo Darmian 7
Stopped a dangerous Traoré run before half-time and stood up comfortably on a night when the defence was hardly ever stretched.
Ander Herrera 7
Kept a close eye on the dangerous Ziyech and his intelligence was integral to a midfield that seized control from the beginning.
Paul Pogba 8
Had a slice of luck for his goal but started the game well and did not let up. Passed astutely and helped United overpower Ajax.
Marouane Fellaini 8
Did exactly the job required, squeezing the midfield space and teeing up Pogba for the opener. Could have scored with a header.
Juan Mata 7
Put in a decent shift but found few opportunities to be constructive, tucking in diligently when Ajax had possession.
Henrikh Mkhitaryan 7
Had endured a tetchy first half, being booked for a foul on Veltman, but that was forgotten when he popped up to finish so sharply.
Marcus Rashford 7
Was the outlet for a number of early balls as United looked to stretch Ajax. Ran willingly but rarely into goalscoring areas.
Substitutes
Lingard 7 (for Mkhitaryan, 74); Martial 6 (for Rashford, 84); Rooney 6 (for Mata, 90)
Not used De Gea, Jones, Carrick, Fosu-Mensah
Referee
Damir Skomina Slovenia
If this is a taste of things to come over the next month we are in for a treat. A sunlit Leeds evening, which rendered the floodlights redundant until 8.30pm, was decorated by a one-day international that had most of the components of a cracker although a late flurry of wickets denied us the luxury of one vital ingredient, a thrilling finish.
In the end England, having chalked up 339 for six, won by 72 runs, a surprisingly comfortable margin given the firepower in the South Africa side. The pursuit of 340 was always going to be tricky for the visitors but it was only out of the question in the final half hour.
In the afternoon Eoin Morgan’s 11th ODI century, augmented by a quickfire 77 from Moeen Ali, had ensured they set such a stiff target. Afterwards a contented Morgan said: “That’s the best way we could have started. It was a complete performance. Moeen [the man of the match] has one of the hardest jobs batting at seven and he was very calm and composed before taking the game to them. It was a very satisfying effort against a really strong team, especially given the start they had with the bat.”
Despite the early loss of Quinton de Kock, expertly caught by Jos Buttler off a monumental skier, South Africa coasted serenely in the first half of their pursuit – not that Hashim Amla ever seems to be straining at the crease. He caressed the ball to the boundary eight times while scoring 73 with Faf du Plessis, who hit 67, a capable ally as they added 112 for the second wicket. After 24 overs they were probably favourites.
Then Mark Wood made a crucial and intelligent intervention. He had endured a torrid time, yielding 39 runs from his first four overs, mostly against Amla, who had the exasperating habit of hitting several of his good balls for four. But now a delivery from Wood struck Amla’s left pad; the appeal was rejected but the subsequent request for a review was justified. Then, in the next over, the admirable Liam Plunkett found the edge of Du Plessis’s bat and at last England had a firm foothold.
But they still had to contend with AB de Villiers; no match is safe for the fielding side while he remains at the crease. He lost JP Duminy and David Miller, both of whom were caught on the leg-side boundary. De Villiers rallied with a succession of blistering boundaries but his confidence in his lower middle-order was waning. He sought another six against Moeen but miscued and was safely caught when on 45 by Plunkett.
Thereafter England proceeded to a straightforward victory, marred only by concern about the fitness of Ben Stokes, who left the field briefly and bowled only two overs because of a sore left knee. They will not take any risks with him in Southampton on Saturday though Morgan said Stokes could have bowled on his return to the field but he decided not to use him.
The old hands ensured England’s substantial total. Morgan is now the wrong side of 30 and it will not be long before he is joined on this ripe old age by Moeen. It was their sixth-wicket partnership of 117 which rescued an innings that was in danger drifting off course after the departure of the IPL boys, Stokes and Buttler, in quick succession.
Morgan was the adroit helmsman from the 18th over. He sparkled against the spinners for a while but then attacked more discreetly after the loss of those two wickets. Even so he reached his century from only 90 balls with a whippy hook for six (the fifth of his innings) against a rusty Kagiso Rabada. He fell looking for a sixth six with only 14 balls of the innings remaining.
Moeen, so easily underestimated and not required for the two matches against Ireland, offered critical assistance to his captain. He took three sixes from an Imran Tahir over during the most skittish knock of the innings. His 77 occupied just 51 balls and in between the odd swish at fresh air there was some wonderfully clean hitting on the leg side. In the last 10 overs England conjured 102 runs which is good going, even in the 21st century. Moeen scored 65 of those.
A few stats from Andy Zaltzman in the TMS box: Moeen became the first English No7 to hit five sixes in an innings and this was the first time England had passed 300 against South Africa at home as they put together their highest ODI total at Headingley, not that their total was ever going to guarantee victory. This May there are no guarantees.
It was a most inviting pitch – for batsmen – yet the top order could not quite make the most of it. Jason Roy edged when driving at Wayne Parnell in the second over. Joe Root began imperiously – he is an exquisite ODI player when he does not try to hit the ball hard – but like Alex Hales, who was just beginning to look ominous, he was frustrated to be removed by Andile Phehlukwayo. Both Stokes and Buttler were neatly caught by Miller, the former on the deep midwicket boundary, the latter at a cunningly stationed leg gully.
But Morgan and Moeen calmly restored the situation. That calmness was evident in the field later in the evening. With the most unusual exception of Stokes, who slipped and dropped a catch at long-off, whenever the ball was hit in the air the catches were coolly taken.
There was a moment at the final whistle when José Mourinho went looking for someone. This match had come to mean so much to Manchester United that three of his injured players – Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Luke Shaw and Eric Bailly – had just attempted to sprint to the centre-circle on crutches. Then Mourinho saw his son, the modestly named José Jr, and suddenly man and boy were rolling around the pitch.
These were euphoric scenes and though it has been a harrowing few days, the celebrations at the end went a long way to answering the question about whether a football team from Manchester can consider this a happy ending to the season. Mourinho could even be seen kissing a trophy he once felt was beneath him.
It completes the set for United, the only trophy they had never won before, and changes the complexion of how their season will be remembered. Mourinho has won 12 of his 14 finals as a manager and two in one season is more than some of United’s rivals have managed in the past decade. He even tried to make a case it was even more, telling his players not to forget the Community Shield and instructing them to hold up three fingers as they waited to lift their latest prize.
It also means United will return to the Champions League next season but, more than anything perhaps, it also presented an opportunity to dedicate the prize to their city. Manchester will not be healed by the loud, defiant songs and, yes, it was supposed to be a minute’s silence before the match rather than another opportunity to applaud and sing. In its own small way, however, there was still something deeply moving, uplifting even, about those chants, over and again, in honour of the city. “Manchester, Manchester, Manchester,” they sang.
The backdrop to this final had been difficult in the extreme but, as Mourinho had stated, United had a job to do and they went about it with all the qualities that would usually be associated with one of his teams.
Granted, that does not mean the exhilarating football of the great United sides, leaving the Ajax coach, Peter Bosz, to make a number of pithy remarks about long-ball tactics and the difference in terms of size and physicality. That, however, seems like a debate for another day bearing in mind everything that happened in Manchester on Monday. “We want to dedicate it to all the victims,” Ander Herrera said. “The manager told us the only thing we could do was win it for them.”
It culminated with Wayne Rooney running on as a last-minute substitute so he was in place to lift the trophy that had come their way because of the goals from Paul Pogba and Henrikh Mkhitaryan. If this was Rooney’s goodbye it was a nice way to go and none of those players cavorting about the pitch will care that Bosz called it a “boring game”. Mourinho made his own point. “There are many poets in football,” he said. “But poets – they don’t win many titles.”
The only downsides came with the conduct of the Ajax fans who tore up seats at the final whistle and Herrera’s attempt to get an opponent sent off by pretending he had been felled by a headbutt. That apart, United can reflect on a hugely satisfactory night and Mourinho can hardly be blamed for taking advantage of the fact he had the bigger players.
United’s second goal was the case in point. Marouane Fellaini, such a difficult, awkward opponent, could not reach Juan Mata’s corner but his presence alone unsettled Ajax’s defenders. Chris Smalling was behind him to head the ball into the six-yard area and Mkhitaryan hooked in a clever, improvisational finish.
Ajax’s starting line-up had an average age of 22 years and 282 days, including six players of 21 or younger, with a 17-year-old in the centre of defence. What they did not have was big-match experience and their teenage striker, Kasper Dolberg, identified beforehand as one of their main dangers, lasted just over an hour before being substituted. As Posz admitted: “These young kids are not used to playing in finals.”
With the exception of Marcus Rashford, the same could not be said of the winning team and, crucially, United had luck on their side too.
Pogba’s 18th-minute shot ought to have been a straightforward save for André Onana had the ball not taken ricocheted off Davinson Sánchez, the nearest defender. Onana was already moving to his left when the deflection turned the ball towards the centre of the goal. The goalkeeper was stranded and Pogba had his most important, and fortuitous, goal since rejoining United last summer.
The strange part was that Mourinho was so impassive at that stage, hardly wearing the expression of a man who had seen his team take the lead in a European final. The game was still in its early stages and as the first half wore on, it was Ajax who were playing the more creative and fluent game. Mkhitaryan’s goal was timed well, three minutes into the second half, and the manager’s demeanour had changed entirely by the end.
Just when the fractured relationships blighting southern hemisphere rugby union seemingly could not deteriorate any further, a new issue is brewing which is likely to add further strain.
The relations between Sanzaar and the Super Rugby clubs could hardly be at a lower ebb, and the urgent need for governance reform for the showpiece competition has been highlighted over recent months.
Sanzaar’s decision to axe three teams from next year has prompted high anxiety, particularly in Australia, with the Melbourne Rebels and Western Force playing out their seasons with an axe hanging over their heads.
With the culling saga dragging on, the Victorian Rugby Union and the players association, RUPA, last week called on the ARU to hold an emergency general meeting so the issue could be thrashed out with stakeholders, who are demanding answers.
The ARU baulked at holding an EGM because it required giving 21 days’ notice and instead offered to hold an informal meeting with stakeholder within seven days. This meeting was due to be held in Sydney on Friday, but has now been postponed. As a result the ARU will now hold an EGM in about three weeks’ time.
The axing of an Australian team will still be the main item on the agenda at the rescheduled meeting, but there is another issue that is hardly going to help matters.
Sanzaar has proposed the starting date for next year’s Super Rugby competition be brought forward one week, which means it would kick off around 17 February. This is to allow the All Blacks, Springboks and Wallabies an extra week to prepare for the in bound Tests in June against European opposition.
Historically, the southern hemisphere teams have won about 90% of the June Tests in the professional era, but the re-emergence of England as a world superpower under Australian coach Eddie Jones has folks down south getting nervous. Remember what they did to the Wallabies in 2016.
South Africa will host England next year and it was the South Africans who pushed for the change of date, which was supported by Australia and New Zealand.
The Australian and New Zealand Super Rugby teams are not happy about it. For a winter sport Super Rugby already starts early enough in what is a summer month. The New Zealand sides in particular will find it difficult to attract crowds at that time of year.
In Australia a 17 February kick-off would immediately follow the International 10s in Brisbane and the Sydney Sevens the previous week, which is not ideal. An earlier start to the season also means there is more chance teams will be missing key international players in the first round or two.
It is clearly not in the best interests of a Super Rugby competition which is struggling for credibility, especially in Australia.
And this highlights the fact the Super Rugby teams have little or no control over their own destinies. The Sanzaar nations own and administer the Super Rugby competition. The teams that participate in it are just that, participants.
The clubs have no real say in how the competition they play in is run. Sanzaar can consult the clubs on issues as much as they like, but at the end of the day the clubs are powerless about their own fate.
There is no doubt the All Blacks, Springboks and Wallabies are the main revenue generators for the game in their respective countries and the interests of the national teams should always come first.
But the next area of economic growth for southern hemisphere rugby is Super Rugby and the clubs need to be treated as partners, not invitees to a party.
Perhaps there needs to be an independent commission to run Sanzaar rather than the national unions to ensure the needs of both international rugby and Super Rugby are met. That’s something they could discuss at the EGM.
Like many Scots of a certain vintage, I can recall exactly where I was and what I was doing when Celtic won the European Cup on 25 May 1967 (Lisbon Lions allowed Scotland to walk tall again, Sport, 24 May). Too impecunious to go to Lisbon, I was glued to my parents’ small black and white TV in Glasgow. In common with a number of my friends, I had decided to abstain from alcohol for the duration of the match in order not to impair my viewing faculties. So it is that I vividly remember the cup of tea I was drinking hitting the ceiling when Celtic scored the winning goal and became the immortal Lisbon Lions.Mike PenderCardiff
• Perhaps we should have foreseen the collapse of the Hillary Step on Everest (Opinion, 24 May). I recall vividly the Gendarme on the Cuillin ridge of Skye and the vital chock stone in the Flake Crack on Scafell’s Central Buttress route, for years England’s most classic hard rock climb. Sadly both features now form part of the screes below. Miraculously, Nape’s Needle, the most iconic of them all, still stands proud on the crags of Great Gable. First climbed in 1886, it has taken a pounding ever since.Richard GilbertYork
• Sadly I shall never have the chance to witness Alexander Zverev’s tennis in person, but Kevin Mitchell’s report from the Italian Open (Sport, 22 May) was a perfect consolation – vivid, emotional, three-dimensional. Thank you.Maurice GeorgeOrmskirk, West Lancashire
• Why not the Order of British Endeavour or Excellence (Outdated and embarrassing? New calls for sun to set on empire medals after 100 years, 22 May)?Jeremy BeechamLabour, House of Lords
• When my grandchildren were young I fed them boiled eggs with soldiers spread with yeast extract. They called me Granny Marmite (Letters, 24 May). They are now in their teens and still do!Gill EmpsonEdwinstowe, Nottinghamshire
• Grandad Caterpillar is hoping none of his anatomy turns into a chrysalis. Especially his splendid moustache.Hilary GrimeOxford
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Matthew Engel’s insightful historical analysis of cricket in post-apartheid South Africa rightly highlights that social class, not race, “is the main determinant of opportunity” and that South Africa “hardly provides fewer chances than exist in England” (35 years since the rebel tour. What has changed?, 20 May).
However, in identifying the main routes into the English team, including private education and family connections, he fails to recognise the positive contribution of league cricket. For example, virtually every Yorkshire player, including those who have made the Test side, from Len Hutton to Adil Rashid, has appeared for a league team. And league cricket has also been at the vanguard of women’s and disability cricket.
As regards the “South African” route into the English game, accelerated by concerns that Brexit will end Kolpak status, Engel also neglects to add that this has negative consequences for both South African and English cricket: for the former it weakens their first-class game and future coaching resources, and for the latter, in the context of some counties fielding over half a team of Kolpak players, it greatly reduces opportunities for younger players – the least privileged from the leagues – to “make it” in the first-class game.Mike SteinPudsey, West Yorkshire
• Matthew Engel is a fine cricket journalist with sound social and political principles, but I must take issue with one of the statements in his otherwise good article. He asserts that “there are now only three well-trodden routes into the [England] national team: through independent schools, existing cricketing families and, all too often, South Africa”.
This is just not a fair statement of the facts. Take my home county of Durham. In recent years they have produced a steady stream of England players: Paul Collingwood, Steve Harmison, Graham Onions, Liam Plunkett, Scott Borthwick, Ben Stokes and Mark Wood. All of these cricketers attended state schools, were not from high-profile existing cricketing families, and had no connection with South Africa.
But then perhaps if some of those attributes had applied, and certainly if they had been in south-east England, perhaps they would not have been kicked in the teeth so disgracefully by the monsters of the ECB.
Over to you, Matthew.Steve SmartMalvern, Worcestershire
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Jenson Button, who returns to Formula One for a one-off appearance for McLaren at the Monaco Grand Prix on Sunday, has insisted he is confident in his ability to come back strongly despite not having driven this season’s new specification cars.
Button retired at the end of last season after 305 grand prix starts and 17 years of racing in F1. He was retained by McLaren as a reserve driver and drafted in to replace Fernando Alonso when the Spaniard opted to take part in Sunday’s Indianapolis 500 race instead of the grand prix. “Preparation has been good apart from I haven’t driven the car so it’s not perfect,” he said. “I have spent a lot of time in the simulator getting a feel for it, most of the stuff is the same, there are a few things that are different, a few things to learn but it is still a racing car, I am just getting used to it being a little bit wider.”
Button’s last grand prix was at Abu Dhabi in November 2016 when he retired after 12 laps. He also has had no experience with the new Pirelli tyres which are proving more durable and allow drivers to push harder. He was offered an afternoon of testing at Bahrain after the race there but chose not to take part.
The 37-year-old winner of the F1 world championship in 2009, who won at Monaco that season, admitted returning to the Monte Carlo street circuit was of particular importance. “I am very relaxed, very excited, it’s interesting coming back for one grand prix and it being Monaco is very special,” he said. “I have won here before and I lived here for 17 years.”
Questions have been asked about how eager Button was to return to racing as he has been pursuing his passion of competing in triathlons since his retirement, having just qualified for the world championship. However he insisted he genuinely wants to come back.
“I said yes and it was my decision. I could have said no if I wanted to,” he said. “No one wants a racing drive who doesn’t want to drive.”
His underpowered McLaren has been well off the pace, a problem that will be partly negated by the tight turns of Monaco, with Alonso’s fifth place here last season the equal-highest finish the team achieved.
“It’s exciting but I don’t feel any pressure,” Button said. “I want to be competitive – getting the best out of yourself and the team and the equipment, that hasn’t changed. The car seems to be working well. I drove the upgrades in the simulator and there is a definite improvement.”
Other drivers have questioned the Briton’s preparations for such a testing circuit. When asked if he would be concerned that Button has never driven the new car, Red Bull’s Max Verstappen said: “I am not sure if he cares. If he wants to prepare like that it’s fine, if he feels comfortable with it.”
Button, alongside his former team-mate Lewis Hamilton, expressed his sympathy for the victims, and their families, of the bomb attack in Manchester, sentiments that were reflected throughout the F1 paddock as preparations for the race began.
“It’s horrific, it’s amazing how often it seems to be happening around the world and more and more in Great Britain,” Button said. “There aren’t any words for it really apart from my thoughts are with everyone who has been affected.”
Button also stressed the target made the attack particularly shocking. “The most heartbreaking thing is, while every life is important, with mostly kids going to the concert, that’s what hurts the most for everyone,” he said. “I am not a parent but I know people who are and that’s what hits home the most. How heartless certain people can be.”
There will be a one-minute silence before the race during which the drivers will line up at the front of the grid as a mark of respect and the cars will also run “Manchester” on their livery in tribute to the victims.
Hamilton had already expressed his sadness on social media and reiterated them in Monaco. “I am carrying them in my heart as we are as a team this weekend, I am sure everyone is,” he said.
“Since the incident I’ve been thinking walking around this could happen anywhere. Are we safe anywhere? Are our families safe? It’s definitely a worry and a concern but I just can’t even fathom how the families that have lost loved ones are feeling today.”
Considering Sam Allardyce did not actually win a great deal, he unquestionably overachieved in his managerial career, taking his knowhow into a number of difficult situations and always coming out on the credit side of the ledger.
English football will be a quieter and less colourful place without him, though precisely because Allardyce projected his personality on the game so forcefully – he even managed to be too large and unshushable for the England job – few will readily believe the professional game has seen the last of him.
This is not to suggest he cannot do without football, or that he will forever be unable to resist one more challenge or pension boost in the manner of Harry Redknapp or Neil Warnock. Those two are operating at a lower level, which is fair enough, but though Birmingham City and Cardiff City have been glad of their services there is more than a suspicion that neither could quite cut it in the Premier League any more. Allardyce still can, he has proved it in each of the last two seasons, and it is unusual to see a manager step down when he still has viable employment options at the highest level.
So while the retiring Crystal Palace manager has probably thought this through carefully, and no doubt intends to take stock of his life, enjoy a bit of travelling and spend more time with his grandchildren, the real test of his resolve will not arrive this summer but most likely in about six or seven months, when some club desperate not to drop out of the Premier League sack their manager and look around for a short-term but sure solution. The money on offer would be more than tempting, and after his results at Sunderland and Palace in the past couple of years, not to mention the endorsements from grateful Selhurst Park staff still ringing in his ears at the moment, Allardyce is the firefighter to whom most would turn first.
So much so, in fact, that Fireman Sam could easily make a new career out of stepping in after Christmas and rescuing clubs from sinking into the Championship. Given that three or four usually know they are in trouble by that stage of the season there could even be an annual race for his services. Sky Sports could incorporate an extra window or breaking news ticker into its coverage of the January transfer business to indicate which club has made the first panic phone call to the Allardyce household.
After spending a few months out of the game, aware that too long a break can leave even the best managers out of touch and rusty, Allardyce would have to make an even bigger decision than the one he has just made once the phone begins to ring. It is one thing to say you need a rest, quite another to resist the blandishments of a Premier League club offering the earth in return for a few months’ work.
Allardyce may be re-energised by cutting his workload to three or four months a year through turning up at a different club each season. He would then be off the 24/7 managerial treadmill for most of the year and free to enjoy the best of both worlds, except there are usually reasons why clubs find themselves in trouble near the bottom of the table, and after his experiences with owners at Newcastle United, Blackburn Rovers and Sunderland (all of whom suffered relegation after he left them) Allardyce may view a succession of ill-run and ailing clubs as an unpromising scenario.
In which case, but of course, he could try that other three-months-a-year option – managing a national side. Whichever way you look at it this makes sense. Allardyce was all for it less than a year ago. He has probably burned his boats with England, but as manager of Scotland or Wales he could still see a lot of the grandkids and never have to worry about owners or relegation again. This may not be as far-fetched as it sounds. Allardyce’s parents were Scottish, and if David Moyes is being touted as a possible Scotland manager, based on what he has achieved over the last two or three seasons, why would the Scottish FA not consider an available candidate with a significantly better record?
Wales is not as daft as it sounds either, given that Chris Coleman is at short odds to succeed Allardyce at Palace. Allardyce is from Dudley, the Wales captain, Ashley Williams, is from Wolverhampton, so what’s the difference? Allardyce could just swap jobs with Coleman and everyone would be happy, though if he fancies a complete break from Premier League football he could always look further afield. Australia may be a good fit, or there is usually a team from Africa that need knocking into shape before a World Cup, though with all the travelling Allardyce may find the family time being compromised again.
China should probably be ruled out for the same reason, whatever the financial incentives, yet were Allardyce to get an offer from the country paying Carlos Tevez a couple of million a month he would find it hard not to at least listen. It all depends on whether he is fed up with football, or just Premier League football. If he can still bear to take in a match or two a week a full-time career in punditry presents itself. Based on his hostile reaction to the idea of a diving panel last week he could plough a Fred Trueman/Geoffrey Boycott-style furrow as a no-nonsense northern type fundamentally opposed to innovation or anything considered fleeting or flash.
Allardyce is not really a northerner, despite his affinity for Bolton, and neither is he actually opposed to innovation. Quite the opposite, in fact. He was one of the first coaches to see the usefulness of technology and statistical analysis. Though easily caricatured as gruff and unsophisticated, he is actually quite good with words too. He says he has no ambitions to take another job. That may be true, but it also leaves the door open. He has probably not stopped being ambitious. Saying no to what turns up next will be the difficult part.
Free-agent quarterback Colin Kaepernick will work out with the Seattle Seahawks on Wednesday. The NFL Network reported Wednesday that Kaepernick is one of several signal-callers the Seahawks are scouting as they search for a back-up for incumbent starter Russell Wilson.
Seattle head coach Pete Carroll said last week that Kaepernick and Robert Griffin III were two quarterbacks the team is considering.
Seahawks defensive lineman Michael Bennett said the 29-year-old, who played for the San Francisco 49ers last year, was the “perfect fit” for the Seahawks. Kaepernick led the 49ers to Super Bowl XLVII and to the NFC championship game the following season, where they lost to Seahawks.
But his refusal to stand for the national anthem in protest of police brutality and racial injustice became the NFL’s biggest storyline of last season. He’s said he will stand for the anthem next year since his objective for the protest, to start a nationwide debate, has largely been achieved.
Kaepernick opted out of his 49ers contract earlier in March, but is still a free agent, having garnered little interest from teams around the league. Some, including Seahawks cornerback Richard Sherman, have alleged that Kaepernick is being blackballed by NFL teams becuase of his protest.
“It has nothing to do with football. You can see that,” Sherman said on ESPN’s First Take in March.
“It’s difficult to see (why Kaepernick is unsigned) because he’s played at such a high level, and you see guys, quarterbacks, who have never played at a high level being signed by teams. So it’s difficult to understand,” Sherman said. “Obviously he’s going to be in a backup role at this point. But you see quarterbacks, there was a year Matt Schaub had a pretty rough year and got signed the next year. So it has nothing to do with football. You can see that. They signed guys who have had off years before.”
Kaepernick completed 59.2% of his passes, averaged 6.8 yards per attempt and threw 16 touchdowns with four interceptions in 12 games for the 49ers last season.
Trevone Boykin, the former TCU quarterback who was signed by the Seahawks as an undrafted free agent in 2016, served as Wilson’s backup last season, but was never called into action as a starter despite three separate injuries to Wilson.
Boykin was arrested on misdemeanor charges of marijuana possession and public intoxication in March and subsequently arrested for a potential probation violation, creating the vacancy that could represent Kaepernick’s avenue back into football.
Pierre Rolland launched a late solo attack to win the 17th stage of the Giro d’Italia on Wednesday but Tom Dumoulin’s overall lead remained unchanged.
Rolland, a Frenchman who rides for the Cannondale-Drapac team, accelerated away from a large group of breakaway riders with 5km to go in the 219km stage from Tirano to Canazei, which featured three categorised climbs. He had been part of the breakaway from the start of the stage, which included climbs over the Aprica and Tonale passes. His decisive move came in the Val di Fassa. “At the end it was a question of courage,” said Rolland. “I caught the right moment. It’s a huge relief.”
It was Rolland’s first career win in the Giro, having won two stages in the Tour de France in 2011 and 2012. He had not recorded a win since taking overall victory in the Vuelta a Castilla y León in 2015.
“I’ve waited for this moment for such a long time,” he said. “In 2015 I finished second in a Tour de France stage, and last year was just a year to forget for me. I crashed twice in the Tour. It’s been a long wait.”
Rolland credited his form to his work over the winter with the Cannondale general manager, Jonathan Vaughters, a former team-mate of Lance Armstrong. “My winter was so, so hard, and now I’ve won because of my work,” he said.
Rui Costa, the 2013 world champion, won a sprint for second, crossing 24 seconds behind Rolland. The Basque rider Gorka Izaguirre was third. The main pack, including Dumoulin and all of the other general classification contenders, finished nearly eight minutes behind. Dumoulin remains 31 seconds ahead of the 2014 champion Nairo Quintana, with the two-time winner Vincenzo Nibali third, 1min 12sec behind.
Dumoulin struggled with stomach problems on Tuesday’s tough stage, losing most of his lead because of a toilet break. He was untroubled on Wednesday, which was welcome ahead of another gruelling leg on Thursday across the Dolomites Range. However, his Sunweb team had to pull at the front of the peloton to make sure no one in the breakaway gained too much time on him.
“We were never worried,” Dumoulin said. “We just had to chase harder than we expected. I knew other teams would stress for their jerseys, and come to help. But they waited very long to pull. It was their decision ... My boys did an amazing job and my jersey is safe.”
Stage 18 is a 137km leg from Moeana to Ortisei in the Val Gardena that features four categorised climbs, including an uphill finish.
“I expect Vincenzo and Nairo to make it very hard for me tomorrow,” Dumoulin said. The 100th Giro ends in Milan on Sunday with an individual time trial.
1) Pierre Rolland (Cannondale) 5hr42m56s. 2) Rui Costa (UAE Team Emirates) +24”. 3) Gorka Izagirre (Movistar). 4) Rory Sutherland (Movistar). 5) Matteo Busato (Wilier Triestina). 6) Dries Devenyns (Quick-Step). 7) Felix Grossschartner (CCC). 8) Omar Fraile (Dimension Data). 9) Michael Woods (Cannondale). 10) Julien Bérard (AG2R).
1) Tom Dumoulin (Sunweb) 76hr5m38s. 2) Nairo Quintana (Movistar) +31”. 3) Vincenzo Nibali (Bahrain) +1:12”. 4) Pinot (FDJ) +2:38”. 5) Ilnur Zakarin (Katusha) +2:40”. 6) Domenico Pozzovivo (AG2R) +3:05”. 7) Bauke Mollema (Trek) +3:49”. 8) Bob Jungels (Quick-Step) +4:35”. 9) Steven Kruijswijk (LottoNL) +6:20”. 10) Jan Polanc (UAE Team Emirates) +6:33”. 11) Adam Yates (Orica) +7:00”. 12) Maxime Monfort (Lotto) +7:16”. 13) Davide Formolo (Cannondale) +7:17”. 14) Andrey Amador (Movistar) +11:29”. 15) Dario Cataldo (Astana) +13:26”. 16) Jan Hirt (CCC) +19:02”. 17) Sebastien Reichenbach (FDJ) +25:20”. 18) Patrick Konrad (Bora) +26:50”. 19) Hubert Dupont (AG2R) +28:27”. 20) Simone Petilli (UAE Team Emirates) +29:07”.
Steve Smith has stressed he and his Australia team-mates are “sticking really strongly together” in the dispute between Cricket Australia and their union, the Australian Cricketers’ Association.
After a training session at Lord’s, where his team are preparing for their first Champions Trophy warm-up game against Sri Lanka at The Oval on Friday, the captain spoke publicly for the first time to say the Australia players are “backing what the ACA is doing back home”. But he played down the opener David Warner’s suggestion there could be a strike unless the board agrees to meet some of the union’s demands.
“Of course we want to play in the Ashes, and of course we want everything to go well there,” Smith said. “It’s just about making sure the guys finalise a deal and get the MOU [memorandum of understanding] sorted and everything will be fine. There’s certainly nothing from us where we don’t want to play, we certainly want to be playing in the Ashes so, hopefully, they’ll get things resolved soon and everything will be back to normal.”
As it stands, the dispute means the board will stop paying the players on 30 July, and Smith, Warner, and the rest would be free to take up offers from Twenty20 sides around the world.
Smith described the row as just “a few things going on back home”, which does not square with the news elsewhere. The ACA chief executive, Alistair Nicholson, is flying to London on Friday so he and the team can discuss developments face to face. Earlier on Wednesday, the ACA announced it is planning to take over control of the players’ image rights. On 1 July, it will launch The Cricketers’ Brand, which will be responsible for the players’ commercial deals and also manage some of their access to the media.
Smith confirmed that “everyone’s signed up” to The Cricketers’ Brand, which will make the ACA financially independent from CA, which had previously been funding the association through an annual grant in exchange for those same intellectual property rights. “We’re supportive of the ACA,” he said. “They’re working really hard with CA to get a deal right. And I’m sure in time they’ll get that and everything will be OK for everyone involved.”
Even as Smith and his team were training, news broke that CA was about to agree to the ACA’s request for independent mediation of the dispute, something the board had previously rejected. “That’s news to me,” Smith said, “I think it’s great they’re trying to sort things out. As I said, we’re supporting the ACA in what they do. They’re working really hard to get what the player group want and I’m sure everything will be resolved soon.”
Smith said the team are trying to shut the row out and added he would rather be worrying about who is going to open the batting when they play their first game of the group stage on 2 June, against New Zealand at Edgbaston. “We’ve got a little bit of time before then, a couple of practice matches, a chance for a few guys to bat in these conditions and see if someone really puts their name up [for selection].
“But we’ve obviously got a few options there to go with. We’ve got some really strong batters in our lineup. So it could depend on how they go in these two practice matches we play. For us, it’s about focusing on the job at hand and that’s about competing in the Champions Trophy. These big tournaments only come around every couple of years and you want to win them, so we’re very much focused on that.”
England are the bookmakers’ favourites to win the Champions Trophy, with Australia close behind in second.
“England are a very good side and are playing at home. They have some match-winners in their lineup but a lot of the other teams are very good as well,” Smith said. “South Africa have a world-class team, India have a world-class team and there are a few others as well who on their day can play good cricket. It’s a strong competition.”
Steve Smith has stressed he and his Australia team-mates are “sticking really strongly together” in the dispute between Cricket Australia and their union, the Australian Cricketers’ Association.
After a training session at Lord’s, where his team are preparing for their first Champions Trophy warm-up game against Sri Lanka at The Oval on Friday, the captain spoke publicly for the first time to say the Australia players are “backing what the ACA is doing back home”. But he played down the opener David Warner’s suggestion there could be a strike unless the board agrees to meet some of the union’s demands.
“Of course we want to play in the Ashes, and of course we want everything to go well there,” Smith said. “It’s just about making sure the guys finalise a deal and get the MOU [memorandum of understanding] sorted and everything will be fine. There’s certainly nothing from us where we don’t want to play, we certainly want to be playing in the Ashes so, hopefully, they’ll get things resolved soon and everything will be back to normal.”
As it stands, the dispute means the board will stop paying the players on 30 July, and Smith, Warner, and the rest would be free to take up offers from Twenty20 sides around the world.
Smith described the row as just “a few things going on back home”, which does not square with the news elsewhere. The ACA chief executive, Alistair Nicholson, is flying to London on Friday so he and the team can discuss developments face to face. Earlier on Wednesday, the ACA announced it is planning to take over control of the players’ image rights. On 1 July, it will launch The Cricketers’ Brand, which will be responsible for the players’ commercial deals and also manage some of their access to the media.
Smith confirmed that “everyone’s signed up” to The Cricketers’ Brand, which will make the ACA financially independent from CA, which had previously been funding the association through an annual grant in exchange for those same intellectual property rights. “We’re supportive of the ACA,” he said. “They’re working really hard with CA to get a deal right. And I’m sure in time they’ll get that and everything will be OK for everyone involved.”
Even as Smith and his team were training, news broke that CA was about to agree to the ACA’s request for independent mediation of the dispute, something the board had previously rejected. “That’s news to me,” Smith said, “I think it’s great they’re trying to sort things out. As I said, we’re supporting the ACA in what they do. They’re working really hard to get what the player group want and I’m sure everything will be resolved soon.”
Smith said the team are trying to shut the row out and added he would rather be worrying about who is going to open the batting when they play their first game of the group stage on 2 June, against New Zealand at Edgbaston. “We’ve got a little bit of time before then, a couple of practice matches, a chance for a few guys to bat in these conditions and see if someone really puts their name up [for selection].
“But we’ve obviously got a few options there to go with. We’ve got some really strong batters in our lineup. So it could depend on how they go in these two practice matches we play. For us, it’s about focusing on the job at hand and that’s about competing in the Champions Trophy. These big tournaments only come around every couple of years and you want to win them, so we’re very much focused on that.”
England are the bookmakers’ favourites to win the Champions Trophy, with Australia close behind in second.
“England are a very good side and are playing at home. They have some match-winners in their lineup but a lot of the other teams are very good as well,” Smith said. “South Africa have a world-class team, India have a world-class team and there are a few others as well who on their day can play good cricket. It’s a strong competition.”
Fifty thousand spectators will converge on Stockholm’s Friends Arena on Wednesday night for the Big Vase final, along with more than 40 players, two sets of coaches and about 37 referees and linesmen. Many of the spectators will don hats and scarves that declare their passion for Manchester United. Many others will be clad in red-and-white garb to show their love of Ajax. And a huge, unsightly, belching mass of them will be wearing gravy-stained Uefa blazers that reveal their insatiable support of Europe’s catering industry.
Every single one of them, like the thousands of people actually working at the event and the millions watching it on TV or listening to it on radio or following it on a sweat-soaked minute-by-minute report or completely ignoring it because they’d rather dance or sing or ride or sleep, is better than a pea-brained wretch with a bomb. So they’re the ones The Fiver is interested in.
In the grand scheme of things, The Fiver can be defiantly petty. Fact is, one big reason for which we’ll be tuning in will be to find out whether the Special One’s big gamble pays off. Well, we call it a big gamble because José Mourinho has been keen to give the impression in recent weeks that he chose to concentrate his resources on Big Vase after identifying it as United’s most likely route into next season’s Big Cup. An alternative reading would be that Antonio Conte, Mauricio Pochettino, Pep Guardiola, Jürgen Klopp and even Arsène Wenger decided it would be best for United to try their luck via that route since Mourinho’s side couldn’t hack it in the Premier League. Still, if United do win, then it will be mission accomplished by Mourinho and he’ll have a nice shiny pot to prove it, which is more than Pochettino, Guardiola or Klopp can say this season.
For Mourinho, then, the line between vindication and failure has seldom been so flimsy. If United demonstrate their obvious superiority over a callow Ajax team that has not won any of their last six European matches outside Amsterdam, then he will be triumphant. But if the manager bottles it as he almost did in the semi-final against Celta Vigo and sends his players out as if they are confused by an alien inferiority complex, then Mourinho will have followed up the worst season of his career with the second-worst. Which isn’t really the sort of progress United were looking for when they hired him.
Join Jacob Steinberg from 7.45pm BST for hot MBM coverage of Ajax 0-1 Manchester United.
“I couldn’t care less, I promise you – all I care about is celebrating with my Chelsea fans. Me and them have a wonderful rapport and have done for 22 years. Nothing that people write or say can ever get in the way of that. I promise you I couldn’t care less” – Plain Old John Terry there, not bothered at all by the snarking following his substitution gala.
David Squires on… Manchester, a city united.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“I was thoroughly enjoying reading yesterday’s Fiver. It was the most informative, thought-provoking one I had read for years and, in places, it actually made me laugh. Then a second one popped in to my mailbox” – Andy Vitturini (and 1,056 others).
“Can I be the first of 1,057 to say: ‘ܡѷ�zd�� o�}!�C� �b �=/|� �a$’ɐKjL[ � � � %�h� Mő�&6 � HI71�a>ª�R%SO�� �l i5꟤7R9��KY &L�gk�К`} }DX z^�2���N*� ⠚�LS���P �]� C�Z��hM*��h �#�� ,*��D��B, � �n �� K J <��rP�M�%K �٤� )“�:&~�9դ��LC�c;fNS�J@W2<���}�֐G��p\�0ƺT�D�z “ S� �/$�y��d /�4���’” – Ben Marlow (and 1,056 others).
“Has Fiver Towers been compromised by hackers or is this an attempt by the lesser known Wingding Loving Too Much Tin On A Tuesday But It’s Warm Outside So It’s Acceptable Fiver to get through to the millennial generation?” – Aharon Donaghy.
“Thank you for yesterday’s Fiver? It took me a while to see it, but it’s tough to beat a 3-D picture of Sam Allardyce eating a pie. Thank you” – Kris Nordstrom.
“Who gave Weird Uncle Fiver the email password?” – Nicholas Mancini.
“Re: Jim Smith’s assertion that Watford fans had a ‘stress-free’ finish to the season (yesterday’s Fiver letters). I can ignore the barbs about being mid-low-ranking as it chimes with just about all the bone-idle Watford journalism we’ve endured, but ‘stress-free’? He can’t possibly have been to a Watford game in recent memory. It’s been torture. I can safely say I’ve thoroughly enjoyed two home games all season. The best fun we’ve had is watching the fans next to us throw their toys out of the pram about four times and storm off with half a game left” – Jeff Lloyd.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our letter o’the day is … Nicholas Mancini, who receives a copy of The Agony & The Ecstasy: a Comprehensive History of the Football League Play-offs, courtesy of the kind chap that is Richard Foster.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Chelsea have cancelled Sunday’s planned Premier League victory parade for security reasons following the Manchester terror attack.
The newly de-Allardyced Crystal Palace plan to pip Porto to Marco Silva’s scrawl. Failing that, they’ll go for Roberto Mancini, or Sean Dyche. “I simply want to be able to enjoy all the things you cannot really enjoy with the 24/7 demands of managing any football club, let alone one in the Premier League,” simpered Sam.
Athletic Bibao boss Ernesto Valverde is keeping coy about his chances of beating Allardyce to the Barcelona job. “I have no commitment to any team,” he parped, “though there are teams that want me. It’s possible I take a sabbatical too. Why not?”
Ex-Blue Peter and Police Camera Action! presenter Gethin Jones is set to join Chris Coleman’s Wales squad for their World Cup qualifier against Serbia, though it may be a different Gethin Jones.
Former Helsingborg assistant Stefan Schwarz fancies working at a club that once banned him from going to space. “I think I understand the mentality of the Sunderland fans,” he tooted, “and the culture of the area.”
A winding-up order for Notts County has been dismissed after a “dramatic compromise” was reached over debts outside the high court in London.
Bernard Cribbins’ son Alex Bruce has done one after Hull City confirmed their retained list. Scottish winger Shaun Maloney, 74, has been offered new terms.
And Eintracht Frankfurt’s Guillermo Varela is out of the DFB Pokal final after his pre-match tattoo became “badly inflamed”. Eintracht say they’re sending him back to parent club Manchester United with immediate effect. “We cannot put up with this,” honked suit Fredi Bobic. “This is the end of the road.”
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here.
Limited tickets and soaring travel costs have made the trip to Stockholm difficult for the Manchester United and Ajax fans who ought to be central to any European final, writes Daniel Harris.
David Winner on Ajax.
Few events have had as big an impact on Scottish culture as the day the Queen’s Celtic won the European Cup. Here’s Kevin McKenna on the Lisbon Lions, 50 years later.
Surely Sam Allardyce hasn’t really retired, reckons Paul Wilson. If he wants more downtime, an international return could be perfect.
How much do you know about Euro and Big Vase finals? The Fiver knows nothing. It’s the quiz.
Arsenal and West Ham don’t fancy paying 36-year-old Iker Casillas a fortune, but Liverpool do, it says here. Meanwhile, in other Liverpool veteran news: $tevie Mbe and Jamie Carragher were wheeled out for a flamin’ coin-rich 3-0 thriller in Sydney.
Was Stuart Pearce’s brother really the linesman for a game that he played in? The Knowledge reveals all.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
Boris Becker had kept his ear to the ground, so he did not stop in his tracks when he heard that Novak Djokovic will have Andre Agassi in his box when he begins the defence of his French Open title next week. “It doesn’t come as a surprise,” Djokovic’s former coach says. “I’ve heard the name for a while. I look at information from Novak and his team and I am close with him. I applaud the decision. I think it’s an excellent choice.”
The announcement came after Djokovic’s one-sided defeat to the exciting young German, Alexander Zverev, in the final of the Italian Open on Sunday.
It was a match that Djokovic would have won a year ago, when it seemed that the rest of the tour was powerless to challenge his astonishing dominance, a view that was confirmed when the Serb finally completed his career slam by slapping Andy Murray around in the final at Roland Garros.
Twelve months on, however, Djokovic arrives in Paris still searching for his best form, despite hints of it returning in Rome last week, and bruised from the humbling turbulence which has seen him concede his No1 ranking to Murray, suffer early exits at Wimbledon and the Australian Open and descend into a funk that has left him vulnerable to threats from rising stars like Zverev.
On and off the court, Djokovic has looked spiritually troubled at times. But he has opted for ruthlessness in his quest for rejuvenation. The process of renewal began with him ending his three-year association with Becker in December and, when that move did not have the desired effect, he opted for the “shock therapy” of sacking his entire coaching team this month, closing the chapter on a decade of relentless success.
The only man left standing is the mysterious Pepe Imaz, who is seen as more of a life coach than a technician. Hinting at tensions within the camp, Becker refuses to speak about the Spaniard. “I know Novak for too long,” the German says. “I don’t think it’s right for an insider to speak about the whole picture. I’m happy Andre is there. The rest of the team is Novak’s decision.”
Becker is intrigued by the nascent partnership with Agassi, his old sparring partner. The arrangement might not extend beyond a few matches at the French Open. Agassi is a family man who might not fancy the rigours of a permanent role on the tour. Yet Becker believes the pair could hit it off in Paris. “Andre’s personality and character, his aura, the fact that he is involved in the Novak Djokovic foundation is very important, I think it’s an excellent fit,” he says. “Ideally I would have liked them to start in Monte Carlo and not for the first tournament to be in Roland Garros. It would have given them a bit more time to get used to each other.
“But I wish them all the luck in the world and hopefully they have a successful relationship. A lot depends on the next two weeks. But I know Andre very well. I think this could be a winning combination.”
Becker said the chance to work with Djokovic would have been too good to turn down. “It depends who calls,” he says. “Novak Djokovic is not anybody. He is one of the best of all time. I had a similar situation four years ago. He calls you, you want to pick up, you want to meet him and discuss tennis.”
As Becker discusses Djokovic’s tennis, he sees signs that the passion and fire is returning to his game. It disappeared after he won last year’s French Open. The warning signs were there at the start of the grass court season, culminating in Sam Querrey stunning Djokovic in the third round of Wimbledon.
“We played with Lucas Pouille,” Becker says. “There I could tell already something was a bit different than at the French Open. I was a player – you go through your emotions, you go through ups and downs and eventually you come back. With Novak it has taken a bit longer than I anticipated but I think he is in a good way now.
“He realised he had to change something. When you have such a long, successful career, not every year can be perfect. It’s called evolution, it’s called maturity. They have to fight themselves. Novak today is a different guy than when he was 20, he has different priorities. But deep down he loves tennis, he loves to compete, he loves to win and that will never change.”
Becker could be tempted back into coaching if a decent offer comes his way. For now, though, he is happy in his role as a Eurosport pundit. He does not hold back when the conversation turns to Murray’s worrying dip since becoming No1. “I like Andy, his coaching staff, but what I see on court I don’t like,” he says. “I don’t know what’s going on with him, I don’t think there was ever a time when a No1 went through such a phase. I was thinking before about the former No1s who all had a bad week or a bad month, or a bad couple of tournaments, but with him it’s been pretty much the whole year.
“I don’t think he’s one of the favourites. He should concentrate on getting through [to] the second week and really, in the back of his mind, think about the grass because that’s his best surface. But another early loss at the French would not be good for him.”
With Murray struggling, Roger Federer has removed another obstacle from Djokovic’s path by skipping the clay. Yet Becker is not alone in picking out Rafael Nadal as the man to beat. After dominating in Barcelona, Madrid and Monte Carlo, the king of clay is chasing his 10th French Open title. Can Djokovic stop him from completing La Décima?
“The Novak of old?” Becker says. “Definitely. I saw flashes of the old Novak in Rome, especially in the semis and quarters. But I would put Rafa ahead of Novak at the moment.”
Watch the French Open live on Eurosport and Eurosport Player
Properly pinpointing the status of the BMW PGA Championship has not been particularly easy in recent times. Criticism of the Wentworth venue was commonplace and commonly vehement, to the extent where Europe’s finest players did not deem the tournament worthy of participation despite it being one of precious few in Great Britain or Ireland.
The BBC withdrew live television coverage, albeit that this was part of a bigger, depressing picture. And then, in what was surely a strategic error, the European Tour’s chief executive, Keith Pelley, broke with what had been his own organisation’s convention by insisting this was no longer its “flagship event”. Meanwhile, tournaments such as the Irish Open were rising in stature and purses on the opposite side of the Atlantic were dwarfing those in Europe like never before.
Two things have been added to the narrative as Wentworth prepares for the latest staging of a competition that usefully sits between the Players Championship and US Open. On Thursday morning, the European Tour’s Rolex Series – a batch of enhanced purse tournaments – will be formally under way. There is also the small matter of Wentworth’s West Course itself, a piece of land that has undergone more makeovers than a fading actor. The key this time is that, finally, alterations to the tune of several million pounds appear to have met widespread approval.
Greens, once the routine frustration at Wentworth, have been dramatically upgraded. Pelley is prone to exaggeration but his sense that the course has “significantly improved” is probably fair. “It’s amazing what has transpired in just a year when you think back about the challenges that we were having, mainly around the golf course and players not satisfied with the greens,” the chief executive added.
“We had seen conversations and pretty serious conversations with [Wentworth’s owner] Reignwood at that particular time, and conversations with BMW, who were concerned for many years whether we would be able to continue with the BMW PGA Championship here at Wentworth if, in fact, we didn’t make significant improvements to the course.”
It should be noted that BMW’s long-term position on European sponsorship remains unclear. Perhaps the Rolex link will please doubting commercial executives. Reignwood, too, has had its challenges: while apparently placated for now, Wentworth’s membership – via the estate’s influential residents’ association – was furious at massively increased pricing when the Chinese firm took over. As the Guardian reported last year, provisional plans in the United States to move its own PGA Championship as part of a schedule overhaul could impact directly on the European equivalent. As with so much in European golf at the moment, the future is not certain.
“The BMW contract is to the end of 2018,” Pelley added. “We’re confident that both parties will reach an agreement to move forward. BMW has been a great supporter of ours. We would certainly love them to be long-term associated with the Tour and those discussions are obviously confidential.
“The roads committee, Wentworth residents’ association and the club now have come to an agreement in principle and now we are going to spend the next couple of months working through some of the details and hopefully announce an extension of the tournament in the coming months.”
Pelley hopes to announce his Tour’s 2018 schedule by early October, considerably earlier than was the case for this year. He does, though, concede a “jigsaw puzzle” with regards to piecing that together.
Rory McIlroy had been scheduled to feature this week, but for the injury that has disrupted his US Open buildup. There is understandable disappointment that Sergio García, now Masters champion, did not feel the need to participate; the Spaniard will reasonably argue Wentworth was never on his 2017 schedule. “This is a terrific field and it’s significantly stronger than the field was last year,” said Pelley. “So we don’t necessarily like to focus on who is not here.”
Ian Poulter was a late and welcome addition to the field after his terrific performance in finishing tied second at Sawgrass. However, given the redesign, picking favourites is a tricky business. Justin Rose arrived in his home country still seeking to atone for his Masters play-off defeat. Other English hopes are in the form of Tommy Fleetwood, Matthew Fitzpatrick and Ross Fisher with Luke Donald, a previous Wentworth expert, not without a chance. An element of fascination will again fall upon on Danny Willett, the 2016 Masters champion who once more cut a miserable figure when lasting only 27 holes of the Players.
Serena Williams has 39 grand slam titles, four Olympic medals, major endorsement deals and her own line of clothing and accessories. Now she is embarking on a new mission: she says wants to help tech companies diversify their workforces and solve one of the industry’s most vexing problems.
Williams, 35, will get her chance as she joins a Silicon Valley boardroom for the first time. Online poll-taking service SurveyMonkey announced Williams’ appointment to its board on Wednesday, along with Intuit CEO Brad Smith.
“I feel like diversity is something I speak to,” Williams said. “Change is always happening, change is always building. What is important to me is to be at the forefront of the change and to make it easier for the next person that comes behind me.”
Williams didn’t offer specifics about her goals as a corporate director, implying that her presence can help push the company – and, by extension, the industry as a whole – in a more diverse direction. Individual board members don’t usually exert great influence over the companies they oversee, although they are often compensated handsomely in cash and stock for their part-time work. SurveyMonkey, a private company, didn’t say how much Williams will be compensated.
Williams has been involved in Silicon Valley more frequently following her engagement to Alexis Ohanian, the co-founder of Reddit. The couple are expecting their first child this year.
Like many other African Americans, Williams says she’s disappointed that the vast majority of high-paying technology jobs are filled by white and Asian men. At SurveyMonkey, which employs about 650 workers, only 27% of technology jobs are filled by women. Just 14% of its total payroll consists of African Americans, Latinos or people identifying themselves with at least two races, according to numbers the company provided to the Associated Press.
Williams’ appointment is part of the solution, according to SurveyMonkey CEO Zander Lurie. “My focus is to bring in change agents around the table who can open our eyes,” he said.
Her connection to SurveyMonkey came through her friendship with Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer and another member of SurveyMonkey’s board. Sandberg’s late husband, Dave Goldberg, was SurveyMonkey’s CEO before he died in 2015 while the couple were vacationing in Mexico. “I have been really interested in getting involved in Silicon Valley for years, so I have been kind of in the wading waters,” Williams said. “Now, I am jumping into the deep end of the pool. When I do something, I go all out.”
John Terry has insisted he “could not care less” about the criticism surrounding his Chelsea farewell.
The Blues captain said an emotional goodbye to Stamford Bridge by arranging his own substitution after 26 minutes of last Sunday’s clash with Sunderland.
Terry’s contrived departure, leaving the field to a guard of honour from his team-mates, was criticised by some pundits with the BBC’s Garth Crooks saying: “This isn’t Hollywood, this is a Premier League fixture.”
Further concerns were raised after a bookmaker paid out thousands of pounds to three punters who bet on the specific time of the substitution, which corresponded to Terry’s shirt number.
But despite the flak coming his way, 36-year-old defender Terry remains unrepentant.
“I couldn’t care less, I promise you,” he said. “All I care about is celebrating with my Chelsea fans. Me and them have a wonderful rapport and have done for 22 years. Nothing that people write or say can ever get in the way of that.
“If that’s the way I want to go out, that’s the way I go out because I’ve been here 22 years, I’ve won so many trophies – so if I wanted to play one minute and come off, I would have done.
“I wanted to play 26 minutes because the shirt number means a lot to me and the supporters so as long as they are happy – and I was over the moon with the reception – I promise you I could not care less.”
Terry hopes to make his 718th and last appearance for the Blues in Saturday’s FA Cup final against Arsenal.
But the former England captain says he will never forget the ovation he received from the Stamford Bridge faithful.
“It was an unbelievable send-off from the supporters to help me to celebrate 22 years at the club,” he added.
“I’m very grateful to them, and it was something I will never forget. It was so emotional after the game, I was in bits.”
Senior handicappers from Britain and Ireland found themselves fending off accusations of sentimentality after naming Many Clouds as the best long-distance chaser of the jumps season that ended last month. The 10-year-old collapsed and died seconds after producing the performance of his career at Cheltenham in January, when he outbattled Thistlecrack by a head.
Surprise and scepticism was expressed by some on social media that Many Clouds could be rated 2lb better than Sizing John, who became the first horse to win the Gold Cups at Leopardstown, Cheltenham and Punchestown in the same spring. Phil Smith, Britain’s senior handicapper, and Andrew Shaw of the Irish Turf Club pointed out that Sizing John’s successes were achieved in close-fought finishes and insisted he could be rated no higher.
“I’ve been called a lot of things but sentimental …” Smith mused at a press conference to publish the end of term ratings. “I’m quite pleased people think I’m sentimental.” “Maybe just the mental bit?” suggested his colleague, Martin Greenwood.
Unbeaten in two runs in what proved to be his final season, Many Clouds won the Grand National in 2015 and may have been hampered by breathing difficulties when well beaten at Aintree the following year. He had a wind operation during the summer which his trainer, Oliver Sherwood, believes allowed him to run to a still higher level this winter.
“For many years, we didn’t have a Grand National winner that went on to win another race over fences,” Smith pointed out. “Many Clouds won a pretty damn good one as well, so all credit to the horse and his connections.
“Many people may have voted with sentimentality when he won ‘horse of the year’ last month [after a public vote]. But there’s none from me.”
Sherwood greeted the latest acknowledgement of Many Clouds by saying: “It’s very special and I’m honoured. It says a lot for the horse and I’m just sorry he’s not here to justify that rating next season.
“I’m sure the wind op made a difference to him. I’m adamant his wind was just catching him in his second Grand National but his last race, as it turns out, was his best ever, easily his best.
“ He was really something. I’m just trying to find the next Many Clouds at Doncaster sales now.”
A postmortem showed Many Clouds suffered a severe pulmonary haemorrhage when he died at Cheltenham. It happened moments after he became the first and so far only horse to beat Thistlecrack in a race over fences, prevailing after a thrilling finish. The third, Smad Place, was 17 lengths further back.
Douvan was the highest-rated jumper of the season, despite flopping at the Cheltenham Festival after which it was revealed he had suffered a pelvic stress fracture. Willie Mullins’s two-miler is rated 174 but is expected to face stiff competition from Altior, who ended his season on 170, the highest mark ever achieved by a two-mile novice. “If the prospect of these two going head to head next season doesn’t excite people, you’ve got to find another hobby,” said two-mile handicapper Graeme Smith.
The panel faced questions about whether it would be possible to align the handicapping processes in Britain and Ireland more closely, so as to avoid the controversies of the latest season in which Michael O’Leary withdrew his best horses from the Grand National in protest at what he saw as the unfair weight with which they were burdened. There were accusations of anti-Irish bias in British handicapping before Irish runners won seven of the 10 handicaps at the Cheltenham Festival.
“We do the best we can,” was the message from the British handicappers, while Shaw said he had had very few objections to the treatment of Irish runners in Britain. The generally softer midwinter ground in Ireland was offered as one reason why a slightly different handicapping approach was warranted there. Shaw said the Festival is usually the first chance each season for Irish horses to run on a sound surface, explaining why some horses show a lot of improvement.
Catterick 1.50 Time Trail 2.20 Rebel Assault 2.55 Mr Strutter 3.30 Extrasolar 4.05 Veiled Secret 4.40 Juan Horsepower 5.15 Cupid’s Arrow 5.45 Thornaby Princess
Goodwood 2.00 Masar 2.35 Shady McCoy (nap) 3.10 October Storm 3.45 Secret Advisor 4.20 Icespire 4.55 Button Up 5.25 Captain Ryan
Warwick 2.10 Blairs Cove 2.45 Excellent Team 3.20 Exxaro 3.55 Derrintogher Bliss 4.30 Festive Affair 5.05 Bronco Billy 5.35 Nuclear
Chelmsford 5.50 Kiringa 6.20 Scribner Creek 6.55 Ebtkaar 7.25 Melting Dew 8.00 Noble Gift 8.30 Sans Souci Bay 9.00 Suzi Icon
Sandown 6.00 Silver Ghost (nb) 6.30 Sound And Silence 7.05 Big Orange 7.35 So Mi Dar 8.10 Zainhom 8.40 Makzeem
With most domestic leagues across Europe settled for another year, we’d like to hear about how your team fared this season. Did they exceed expectations by qualifying for Europe or achieving an against-all-odds promotion? Maybe you’re still trying to digest a mediocre mid-table finish or a hapless campaign? Who is responsible for your team’s success or failure?
Whether it’s been a season to remember or one to forget quickly, share your thoughts on your club’s league campaign by filling out the form below. We’ll hopefully feature some of the contributions on the site.
Chelsea have cancelled Sunday’s planned victory parade, designed to celebrate their Premier League title success, after taking security advice in the wake of the terror attack in Manchester.
The champions will wear black armbands when facing Arsenal in Saturday’s FA Cup final at Wembley, an occasion that will take place amid heightened security with the government having raised the terror threat level to “critical” after the attack at the Manchester Arena. Chelsea had intended to conduct an open-top bus parade in south-west London but, after lengthy consultations with the Metropolitan police, local councils and other authorities, have opted to cancel it.
The club, who are to make a donation to a fund supporting victims of the atrocity, have sent condolences to those affected in Manchester, with those sentiments echoed by their England defender Gary Cahill. “It’s important to show our respect and send our condolences to the families that have been affected in Manchester,” said the Chelsea captain, whose family will be in attendance at Wembley. “We’ve all got families, so I can’t imagine how they’re feeling right now. I have lived close to Manchester, it’s a great city, and I’m sure they’ll pull together.
“With the game, it’s difficult. There’s an element of trying to live your life in a normal way. Everyone speaks about trying to make sure it doesn’t affect you but it’s impacted everyone in England, especially the families. It’s a tragedy, like when we played [for the national team] at Wembley after the bombings in Paris. It’s horrible. We send our best wishes to everyone involved and I’m sure the security will be top drawer at Wembley on Saturday. We’re going to try to enjoy it as much as we can.
“I try not to worry. I’m sure there’s a lot that goes on behind the scenes we don’t know about but it’s very difficult to stop absolutely everything. These aren’t normal situations. When you see these things happen around the world it has a huge impact but when it happens in your own country it’s even more devastating. You can’t let it affect everything you do in your life. We have to pull to together as a country.”
Chelsea said they felt a parade would be “inappropriate” in light of the tragic events in Manchester. “Given the heightened security threat and recognising that this is a developing situation, we have given this careful consideration,” said a spokesman. “We strongly believe, in the interests of everyone, this is the correct course of action.
“We know the emergency services would have been as professional as ever but we would not want in any way to divert important resources by holding an additional, non-ticketed event on the streets of London.” The club’s player of the year awards night, a ticketed event scheduled for Sunday, will still take place as it is confined to a single area of the venue Battersea Evolution.
Arsenal, seeking a third FA Cup success in four years, have cancelled their screening of the final at the Emirates Stadium. “Should the team win Saturday’s FA Cup final at Wembley, we can also confirm that a victory parade will not take place,” they said in a statement. “We did not want to place any additional pressure on police and security services at this time and have been working closely with them ahead of making this decision.”
For Liverpool it was meant to be a celebration of the season just finished; for Sydney FC, a club also with good cause for celebration after their title-winning campaign, it was a chance to prove themselves against a grand old European club – albeit one that was tired, jet-lagged and understrength.
At the end of a predictably pedestrian close-season match in the harbour city, it was the visitors who most fulfilled their pre-match aspirations in a comfortable 3-0 win, much to the delight of the heavily pro-Liverpool crowd, after goals by Daniel Sturridge, Alberto Moreno and Roberto Firmino set up the mother of all smash and grabs.
Liverpool will turn round their post-season trip to Australia in devastatingly quick, and possibly unprecedented, fashion: in not much longer than it takes to say “veni, vidi, vici”, Liverpool came on Wednesday morning, saw the Opera House, signed some autographs in the afternoon, and conquered Sydney in the evening. Having secured their place in next season’s Champions League just on Sunday, Jürgen Klopp’s side will return to Liverpool on Thursday evening, having made their mark on Australia once again in just 36 hours – and banked a presumably sizeable cheque for their efforts.
“That was the most intense away game I’ve ever had,” said Klopp. “I’ve no idea how the players did it. Obviously they’ve enjoyed it.” When asked what the players’ response was on being told they were expected to travel to the other side of the world at the end of a long, hard campaign, Klopp added: “Because I’m the boss, they were not too critical but I could see in their eyes they would have done different things.”
Few in the crowd were here to watch the A-League champions, who had to settle for the role of bridesmaids, two weeks after they were headlining in their grand final win over Melbourne Victory. Make no mistake, this was a night all about Liverpool, from the rendition of You’ll Never Walk Alone and the massive club badge in the centre circle before the game to the rousing reception given to veteran call-ups Steven Gerrard and Jamie Carragher on their substitution moments into the second half. That pair were replaced by Steve McManaman and Daniel Agger, a sepia-tinged change that only added to the festival atmosphere.
The massed ranks in the stands at ANZ Stadium – some 72,892 of them – wore red almost as one; they were entirely united in standing together before kick-off as both sides paused for reflection with their heads bowed to pay tribute to the victims of the Manchester Arena attack, half a world away but still keenly felt here.
Missing stars Philippe Coutinho and Emre Can, who didn’t make the trip, and with James Milner, Nathanial Clyne and Georginio Wijnaldum not named in the squad, Liverpool fielded just three of their 11 starters who beat Middlesbrough in the Premier League on Sunday – Dejan Lovren, Firmino and Sturridge.
Sydney FC, missing their own star man, Miloš Ninković, plus Jordy Bjuis, Bernie Ibini and the departed Filip Hološko, otherwise put out a strong team. Nevertheless, there is no hiding the clear gulf in class between any team in England’s top flight and one from the A-League, even on a night like this.
With the likes of Firmino showing early flashes of class and Gerrard turning back the clock with the odd touch that made the crowd swoon, Liverpool dominated the early stages.
Sturridge, whose future is likely to dominate headlines over the UK summer, also shone early and it was he who opened the scoring on seven minutes, having turned Alex Wilkinson inside out before finding the bottom corner.
Firmino stamped his authority on the game 11 minutes later with a beautifully judged dink over the top of a static Sydney backline and Moreno finished with aplomb, volleying neatly past Danny Vukovic.
Sturridge was again at the heart of the action on 39 minutes, crossing for Firmino to get the final touch as Wilkinson floundered while the best Sydney could muster was an effort from David Carney – who started his professional career on Merseyside, on the other side of Stanley Park on Everton’s books – that cannoned off the woodwork on the stroke of half-time.
Gerrard was denied a penalty – and presumably the chance to take it himself – just before half-time, much to the annoyance of the crowd and, as the sides came off, Klopp berated the official. It was difficult to tell whether his anger was genuine or if he was playing up to the crowd.
The inevitable raft of changes came at the break as both teams used the match to hand out a bit of experience to younger members of their squads, and the flow of the game suffered, to the extent that a Mexican wave and a hail of paper aeroplanes thrown towards the pitch from the bleachers generated the biggest cheers of the second half until Ben Woodburn almost delivered a fourth goal for Liverpool with a mazy solo run and shot.
That was to be the last of the meaningful action, but the crowd did not go home disappointed. Nor did Klopp, who indicated afterwards the long journey was a worthwhile exercise, if not for football reasons, but at least to reach out to the club’s global fan base.
“We are here to show ourselves, the club, Liverpool FC,” he said. “We’re really thankful Sydney FC gave us the opportunity two weeks after their season [ended]. We’re really thankful for the support. That’s why we’re here. We could have done other things, we could have been already on holiday but we came here because we wanted to be together with the Liverpool supporters.”
Charles Barkley and Shaquille O’Neal are known for getting into light-hearted arguments during NBA on TNT but during coverage of Tuesday night’s Cavaliers v Celtics game the atmosphere became tense as the two exchanged insults over their careers.
It started when O’Neal, a four-time NBA champion, pointed out that Barkley had only reached one finals, despite a Hall of Fame career. Things didn’t climb out of the schoolyard from there on in.
“Chuck, you have no idea what we’re talking about because you’ve only been to the finals once,” said O’Neal.
The Chuck vs. @SHAQ saga continues on #InsidetheNBA... 😂 pic.twitter.com/dPMXWc0XLL
“I wasn’t riding on Dwyane Wade’s and Kobe [Bryant]’s coattails,” replied Barkley, noting two of O’Neal’s most talented team-mates before reeling off a few more names for good measure. “If I had been riding on Kobe’s coattails and Dwyane Wade’s and Alonzo Mourning’s too, I forgot about him ... and Rick Fox.”
While the exchange had started off light-hearted and both players smiled, the atmosphere grew tense – perhaps as the rest of the panel, host Ernie Johnson and analyst Kenny Smith, contemplated getting crushed should the two very large men either side of them lunge at each other.
Johnson, in particular, was keen to calm the pair down: “Why did that get so personal when we’re talking about Game 5?”
“Because Chuck keeps interrupting me,” said O’Neal. “Don’t interrupt me, Chuck, or I’m gonna punch you right in your face, I’m telling you.”
The panel had been munching on chicken wings during the show and soon even these became potentially dangerous objects. “If you hit me, we’re gonna be moving some furniture,” said Barkley. “I’m gonna throw one of these chicken wings at your fat ass.”
O’Neal then held up his chicken wing with intent: “You gonna do what?”. That seemed to break the tension and the show carried on without any poultry-based injuries. O’Neal, however, did get in one more shot: “[Barkley] don’t know nothing about that, he only went to the finals once,” he mumbled.
Barkley, in particular, has been divisive as a pundit on TNT – although he has won three Emmys for his work as an analyst. In January, he described LeBron James as “inappropriate, whiny, all of the above” after the NBA champion complained about the lack of depth at the Cavaliers. ESPN asked James about Barkley’s comments and the question lit a fuse. “I’m not going to let him disrespect my legacy like that,” James said. “I’m not the one who threw somebody through a window. I never spit on a kid. I never had unpaid debt in Las Vegas. I never said, ‘I’m not a role model.’ I never showed up to All-Star Weekend on Sunday because I was in Vegas all weekend partying.
“All I’ve done for my entire career is represent the NBA the right way. Fourteen years, never got in trouble. Respected the game. Print that.”
The NBA playoffs continue on Thursday when the Cavaliers and Celtics meet in Game 6 of the Eastern Conference finals. The Cavs hold a 3-1 series lead.
On a sunlit morning in Stockholm Manchester United fans were in sombre mood before Wednesday night’s Europa League final against Ajax.
The atmosphere was muted because of Monday evening’s terrorist attack at the Manchester Arena that killed 22 people and left 59 injured.
Andrew Dawson, 30, wearing a vintage United shirt as he wandered around Stockholm city centre, said: “I live in London but am from Manchester. It is a pretty sombre mood here. The scary thing for me is that where these people are being picked up [arrested] from is five minutes from where my mum and dad live. So it does affect the mood.
“I imagine from seeing Facebook and Twitter – it’s sometimes a bit of an echo chamber – that there will be a lot of passion at the match tonight. If there was going to be any trouble as well – the Dutch fans are often a rowdy bunch – it might defuse a lot.”
United’s Marcus Rashford will line up at centre-forward against Ajax. The 19-year-old is from Manchester’s Wythenshawe area, so he and the Warrington-born Jesse Lingard, who may also start, are two who face a particular challenge.
Dawson said: “It’ll be interesting to see players like Jesse Lingard and Rashford – how they react to what has happened because it’s been pretty terrifying.”
Rish Kapila, a 31-year-old who had just arrived for the final, said: “I’m from Manchester and absolutely what happened has affected me. It’s been horrible, there’s no two ways about it. I’m British but I’m Asian as well. It’s a sombre feeling. I find Manchester a city that’s unique. I even put on Facebook yesterday [how] it’s horrible to leave the city. If we win I guess it’ll bring some happiness to the situation. The mood? In all fairness there’ll be some unity among the fans. Everyone I’ve spoken to both at the airport in Switzerland [for the connecting flight] and at Stockholm just now – none agrees with what has happened.
“That’s nice. But I’m hoping Man United do something [tonight] to mark this. I hope Uefa do something. The world’s been affected.”
United’s players will wear black armbands and there is to be a minute’s silence. Charlie, a 27-year-old from Blackpool, wants José Mourinho’s side to win the trophy for Manchester.
“Fingers crossed,” he said. “What’s happened puts a different edge on it. Hopefully we’ll bring the trophy back now. You’d think there would be some solidarity amongst both sets of fans. They’ve got a minute of silence at the match so you hope that will be respected well.”
Paul Burke, a fan from Rotherham who arrived in the early hours of Wednesday morning, reflected the general atmosphere in Stockholm. “What has happened in Manchester affects everybody,” he said. “I feel sorry for all the families and my thoughts go to everybody involved. Things still have to carry on and that’s why United are out here for the game today. We well carry on and hopefully we’ll lift the trophy.
“I got here at 1am. I flew in from Heathrow and the mood’s been sound up to now – everything has.”
As before any major final there will still be talk of trophies, transfers and what victory would mean for the club. If United win the Europa League the club will complete the set of major trophies and secure a Champions League berth for next season but that it is no longer at the forefront of people’s minds.
“My first thought is it’ll be massive for Manchester if United win because of what’s happened,” Dawson said.

It is a 1.1m-high trophy produced in 1848 by Robert Garrard & Co, the London company that has served as crown jewellers for the past six British monarchs and is also responsible for the Premier League trophy and both cricket and rugby union world cups. Its shape will be familiar to fans of golf as it is a claret jug, though this one is known as the Auld Mug.
It’s a sailing thing. The America’s Cup is not named after the country but after the boat that first won it in 1851, the America, which, to be fair, was American. Had that first race around the Isle of Wight ended up being won by a different competing vessel it might have become known as the Freak’s Cup, and all the better for it.
Hideous. Four nations have won it: Australia once, New Zealand and Switzerland twice each and the United States a frankly monotonous 28 times. Britain can boast one champion – Sir Thomas Lipton, the founder of the tea company, tried and failed to win it five times back in the 19th century and was eventually given a trophy for his troubles, as the officially-designated “best of all losers”.
About two years ago, now you ask, since when the six crews have competed in nine preparatory races across the globe. At the end of them Land Rover BAR – that is Team GB – came out on top, thus taking two bonus points into the qualifiers that start in Bermuda on Friday.
That is a slightly controversial point. They will each be sailing in mind‑bogglingly hi-tech catamarans just under 50ft in length, after a majority of the teams voted in 2015 to shrink the hulls from the 62ft versions named in the original protocol. The decision caused the Italian team, Luna Rossa, to withdraw in high dudgeon and Patrizio Bertelli, their boss, to complain that the £17m he had already lavished on the project had gone down the drain.
That’s the thin end of a large wedge. It starts with a $2m entry fee, which had to be paid nearly three years ago, and rises rapidly from there. It is estimated that Team USA’s successful defence of their title in 2013 cost the team’s backers around $200m.
The teams – that’s Sweden’s Artemis Racing, Emirates Team New Zealand, Groupama Team France, SoftBank Team Japan, Oracle Team USA and Land Rover BAR – races every other team head-to-head twice, with the winners on each occasion scoring one point. At the end of it whichever team is at the bottom of the pile will be eliminated.
As the holders Team USA will then go straight into the final and the remaining four challengers will face best-of-nine semi-finals and finals, the winners earning the right to challenge the USA, in the actual proper America’s Cup match, a best-of-13 affair that starts on 17 June.
Team USA, as the only crew definitely involved in the main event, are inevitable favourites, ahead of Team New Zealand and Land Rover BAR – who have been worryingly slow in practice – with the French considered the outsiders.
There is nothing sedate about this kind of sailing: the boats reach top speeds of around 85kph and the final practice runs featured Team NZ’s boat nosediving into the water, one of their sailors leaping overboard to avoid being struck by the rudder, Team USA capsizing twice and the BAR boat accidentally ramming New Zealand’s when their skipper, Sir Ben Ainslie, by his own admission “pushed the limits too far”.
Sir Ben, who was also part of Team USA’s miraculous comeback victory over New Zealand in 2013, is not the only British Olympic hero involved: Iain Percy and Paul Goodison are on the Swedish boat and should have been joined by Andrew Simpson, who was killed when their boat capsized during training in San Francisco Bay in 2013, trapping him underwater.
At least 25% of each team must come from the country they represent, but beyond that the world is very much their oyster.
All the teams have developed two sets of foils, which are mounted under the hull and lift the boat out of the water as it picks up speed: one for light breezes and one for stronger winds. Like F1 teams and their tyres, they will have to decide on the day which ones to mount – only they have no means of changing their minds mid-race. These calls could prove decisive.
For the competitors there’s nothing jolly about it. “The America’s Cup is what it is because it is so difficult to win,” said Sir Peter Blake, two-time victor with Team New Zealand. “It’s a game where winning is almost impossible – almost, but not impossible. And this is why it is worth fighting for. It is the difficulty that gives any challenge some sense. This is the essence of life itself.”
Visiting another country to watch your team contest a European final is not far off the zenith of existence – better even than finishing fourth in the league. And though it may not always seem that way, such occasions cannot be taken for granted.
Real Madrid, easily Europe’s most successful club, were absent from them between 1986 and 1998, then again between 2002 and 2014. Accordingly, it is incumbent on every match-goer to enjoy every opportunity to the fullest extent, because who knows when the next one will come along?
But, as with anything to do with football, it is rarely as easy as it should be. Thanks to the various corporations seeking maximum cash for minimum effort, as soon as Manchester United and Ajax won their Europa League semi-finals, flights to Stockholm from England and the Netherlands sharply increased in price; thus does pleasure became pressure.
“A simple case of supply and demand,” say A-level economists, but the love and addiction involved in football impute a moral dimension. People who pour time, money and hope into watching their teams are entitled to be there for their biggest games, not for free but for fair.
Though airline ticket pricing has nothing to do with the game’s governing bodies, Thomas Cook has paid Manchester United, one shudders to think how much, in order to run their official trips. Presumably, this “partnership” allows them to charge fans the most it is thought they will pay – in this case £499, because £500 is just too much. United have not felt the need to cap or subsidise this.
Still, there are numerous reasons to swerve an official trip and a few alternative options. Before United won their quarter-final, flights could be bought for £170, and given the weakness of the field, those who gambled and lost would be left with far greater worries than an unwanted ticket to Stockholm. But making this work required either cash or credit, along with confidence in a misfiring team and the ability to withstand a loss.
Another way of ameliorating the situation is to go for longer and call it a holiday. Flights then cost less, though the money saved is simply repatriated and spent elsewhere, the ultimate effect making things more, not less expensive.
The other, probably better, option is to fly to a nearby city – Gothenburg or Malmo, say – before travelling the rest of the way overland. Journeys of this ilk tend to involve long, leisurely and refreshing train rides, with the fringe benefits of avoiding jester-hat cringe and zealous police for as long as possible.
Though prevailing on airlines is beyond Uefa, helping with accommodation might not be. When finals are doled out, discussions with bidding cities focus on bed numbers rather than affordability, but perhaps there is a better way. Why not ask municipalities to prevent hotels, already fuller than usual and making more money on food and drink than usual, from raising prices? This might be tricky to administrate from a legal and practical perspective, but the intention and understanding should always be there nonetheless.
Uefa’s power over match tickets, on the other hand, is absolute, and in this instance they are priced at €150, €100, €70 and €40. This is not appalling, but the significantly higher Champions League final prices – €450, €317, €162 and €69, charged in a larger ground that is guaranteed to sell out – suggest a desire to maximise profit.
For context, a ticket to the 1999 Champions League final cost £12 and since then, the money coming into the game through sponsorship and broadcasting rights has increased at an exponential rate; there is no need to lean on supporters already paying for transport, accommodation and sundries. It is reasonable that costs are covered but even though it is a final – in fact because it is a final – the ethos of “twenty’s plenty” should still apply.
These prices, though, only affect those lucky enough to get a ticket. On the night, the Friends Arena will have a capacity of 48,000 – not ideal for a match featuring clubs as well-supported as United and Ajax. That is not to say the biggest games should simply rotate around a few large venues; for many Europa League finals, they would be entirely inappropriate. On top of that, a trip to a first-time final host is far less cloying than the Champions League paying Wembley’s mortgage twice in three seasons as in 2011 and 2013, while for those who travel regularly to games, it is a treat to visit somewhere not on the usual circuit.
Even in that context, it is impossible to defend the allocation of 17,000 tickets for public sale against just 10,000 each to the clubs. United’s average home attendance is 75,290 and Ajax’s is 49,619. Last season, despite a final venue with a capacity of 35,000, Liverpool were given 10,236 tickets.
Football is parochial and emotive, a huge part of people’s heritage and identity; that is what Uefa is selling, and that is how a suitable atmosphere is created. Though it is nice for locals to enjoy a final jaunt, it is not essential, which is why they ought not to be there in such numbers at the expense of partisans who have followed their team through the competition.
The same applies to Uefa’s 11,000-strong “family” – those loins must really be something – many of whom would be perfectly happy watching at home. That is what many neutrals will end up doing, judging by the number of tickets for sale on the secondary market before the identity of the competing clubs was known.
It is true Uefa had no idea which teams would reach the final – had Celta Vigo and Lyon won through, fewer fans would have travelled and selling to neutrals at that later stage would have been harder. Of course, it is important grounds are full, but there is another way.
If, in less than two weeks, more than 20,000 United and Ajax fans can find the means to get to Stockholm, then in that same period the authorities should be able to make any leftover tickets available to local children and accompanying adults, for cheap or even for free. Uefa’s motto is “we care about football”; looking after fans would be a fine way of living up to it.
In an otherwise monochrome Glasgow childhood, Lisbon came to insinuate itself into my misty consciousness. Long before I knew it was a foreign city or discovered the source of its significance to the adults in my family, Lisbon took its place in my four-year-old lexicon of places and destinations. In 1967 this would not have stretched much beyond “Granny’s house”, “the back garden” and “the bad fire”.
Gradually, during birthday parties, communions and endless baptisms, propaganda from my dad and uncles began to form and settle. When the time came for me to attend school, the story of Lisbon and Jock Stein and Celtic and Internazionale had been stitched into my mind. I’m not sure if the concept of a pre-school education was fully formed in Scotland in the 1960s, but in my neighbourhood it began and ended with the legend of the Lisbon Lions. There was geography and history; word recognition and recall; heroes and villains. How many exasperated primary school teachers all over west central Scotland in the late 1960s fretted over the inability of Tam and Rab to read Janet and John or add two plus three yet somehow talk freely and with some authority of Simpson, Craig and Gemmell; of Zurich, Nantes and Vojvodina Novi Sad?
On bended knee at bedtime before a statue of the Blessed Virgin, my brother and I entreated God to bless mum and dad, Gran McKenna and Gran McCabe, and all our aunties and uncles. “And bless Jock Stein too,” my dad would remind us. A few years later I clearly recall a heated conversation among my uncles and a visiting priest on the subject of special papal dispensations. The bewildered padre had been asked to pronounce on whether a case could be made for Stein to become a saint on the basis that, even though he wasn’t a Catholic, he had delivered the requisite and verifiable miracle.
In my later school years, long after a working grasp of the basic Lisbon narrative had been established, my friends and I took turns to distinguish ourselves with a more rarefied knowledge; one that could only have been obtained by hours of extracurricular study. This, of course, was subject to a degree of exaggeration. “Did you know that Billy McNeill conducted all of his press conferences before the away legs in the language of his hosts?” That this would have required the Celtic captain to have possessed a working knowledge of French, Swiss, Yugoslavian, Czechoslovakian and Portuguese was never challenged. “And did you know that my dad’s pal’s fiancée ditched him after he used the deposit on their new house to fly to Lisbon?”
In the early years that followed Celtic’s triumph in Lisbon, one book came to be recognised as the bible on all that occurred around the game. Celtic Triumphant was written by the highly respected football journalist Ian Peebles and remains to this day the ultimate authority on the matches Celtic played that season, and the anecdotes and recollections of the players and people who were there. Many other books have been written in the decades since but the freshness, authenticity and sheer sense of wonder of Peebles’ work, penned as it was in the immediate aftermath of Lisbon, will never be matched.
At university I discovered my friend Aidan McLaughlin and I shared a guilty secret: we had both memorised entire paragraphs of Celtic Triumphant. This is Peebles’ recollection of Steve Chalmers’ winning goal in Lisbon: “Then, six minutes from the end, to the delight of the Scots and the obvious satisfaction of foreign journalists all around me, Steve Chalmers scored the winner from a pass by Murdoch after a fine through ball by Gemmell the Great. Said a leading Swiss writer: ‘It’s wonderful … Celtic are a team with eight forwards!’ A Frenchman beside him smiled at me and said: ‘We must all play the game your way now.’ Being a Scot in the National Stadium at that moment was the supreme status symbol. Meanwhile, after token resistance from a sympathetic police cordon, Celtic’s supporters took control of the field.”
On one level, Celtic’s 2-1 victory in the European Cup final over Internazionale, the champions of Italy, must stand as Scotland’s greatest sporting achievement. Football then, as it is now, was the most popular sport in the world in terms of participation and commerce. That a squad consisting purely of men from the west of Scotland with no advantages or privileges of finance or sports science could win the world’s premier football tournament was considered improbable then. It would be regarded as well-nigh impossible now.
Yet, Celtic’s victory carried much more significance than the mere fact of a Scottish team becoming the first from Britain to prevail in football’s most prestigious club tournament. Lisbon ’67 was a watershed moment for Scotland on cultural, social and political levels. Let’s consider the style and design of Celtic’s play in defeating one of the most successful clubs in the modern era. If anyone outside of the west of Scotland had been asked to imagine the type of football favoured by a team from Glasgow they might have deployed words such as “utilitarian”, “industrial” or “no-nonsense”. Glasgow in the 1960s was still in its No Mean City phase; a black and white city of heavy industry, joyless drinking and casual violence. A football team from this place would be hard, aggressive and inelegant. It would take no prisoners.
There was light and joy in Celtic’s play though and an exuberance that you might more commonly associate with Latin or African countries. It belied the grime and industrial drudgery of the places where the Lisbon Lions were reared. Sure, they were no snowflakes and Stein had instilled a good old-fashioned Presbyterian work ethic in their approach. Yet, as Celtic progressed through the 1966-67 European Cup, foreign journalists and supporters were surprised at their high levels of skill and enlightened tactics, which demanded that every outfield player had quick feet and sharp brains. Within a few years Dutch coaches and footballers would be lauded for having invented the concept of “total football”. In truth though, Celtic had been playing that way for several years.
Before Celtic won the European Cup, the only prolonged exposure Scotland had ever enjoyed in front of a mass audience would have been the Hollywood classics Whisky Galore and Brigadoon. On the afternoon of 25 May 1967 a global audience sat down for two hours to watch an authentically Scottish product prevail under the most searching conditions. The product was seen to be charismatic and attractive and, in the minds of 40 million foreigners, a mental recalibration of previously held thoughts about Scotland and Scots took place.
Did Scotland enjoy a rare wee jag of confidence in that hour? Did we experience for a few precious minutes what it must feel like to be a citizen of one of those famous, beautiful countries endlessly favoured by Hollywood location directors? We Scots can be tetchy and disputatious, often plagued by confidence issues, and forever soliciting other people’s opinions of us. In the first chapter of Celtic Triumphant, the author observed something rapturous afterwards: “There were Celtic and Rangers supporters; Protestants and Catholics; Pakistanis and pop fans; and all of them were rooting for the Parkhead players in Lisbon. As the final whistle blew, many an impromptu jig was danced on a lounge carpet and lifelong Rangers followers have since admitted to a lump in their throat which they couldn’t control.”
In Celtic’s triumph we discovered that Scotland was well-regarded in other countries. We felt a residual fondness for this country that had probably existed, unspoken and not observed, for many years. The source for some of this could have been a high regard for our education and our ability to build ships, bridges and railways. Nor can you discount Scottish regiments’ heroism in two world wars and our pleasant trade dealings with most of Europe over centuries when London’s East India Company seemed only to want to exploit them. After Lisbon, though, there was a continent-wide outpouring of goodwill towards Scotland, expressed through admiration for the exploits of its champion football team, Celtic FC. “A pleasure to meet you again after all these years,” Europe seemed to be saying as a team of Scots charmed them.
In their tall, blond captain, Billy McNeill, Scotland had a champion for the new age. Here was a man who, as Celtic progressed through Europe, insisted on speaking to the local press in Switzerland and France, in their own language. This was a working class Scottish lad who did not possess the advantage of a university education. McNeill, in the way he held himself and in the manner with which he conducted himself, became a symbol of aspiration for many others from unprivileged backgrounds. If McNeill was typical of ordinary Scots, then we as a nation had much to be proud of.
And in Stein Scotland had produced an articulate philosopher whose musings on football were influenced by his socialism and his years toiling underground as a miner. Here was a man who, you felt, would respect captains and kings but never have considered himself inferior to them. For many working class Scottish people, these two men became a totem: an example of what they might aspire to just as the concept of comprehensive education and free university access began to raise the expectations of a previously disadvantaged people.
What is more, Celtic, in being managed by a Protestant and including several Protestant players were, at last, a team that transcended the ancient west of Scotland religious tribalism. This was the moment perhaps when many who had not been reared in an Irish Catholic household felt they could give their support to Celtic and possibly even identify with them. Might this have been for many Celtic fans the first time they felt proud of their Scottishness and fully comfortable in their Scottish skins?
All of this happened during the summer of love, when counter-culture became the mainstream; when it was acceptable for men to grow their hair and sport clothes with flower motifs. For a few months it seemed as if the world’s problems did not have to end in bloodshed. It was the young people’s decade and perhaps Scotland, ever on the edge of great happenings and with its nose pressed up against the window, had made its own contribution and had at last caught up with the spirit of the age.
Until 1967 the experience of my dad’s generation of lowland, working-class Scots was of heavy industry for poor wages; of ill-health and premature death. It was to be thwarted by the failure to access a university education and a secure profession. It was the frustration of being unable eloquently to express their character and their intelligence. It was the resentment of always being portrayed by scholars, writers and film-makers as ill-educated, malevolent and unsophisticated. Nye Bevan and Harold Wilson began to give them hope as they started the process of unstitching embedded privilege and opening doors that had always been closed in their faces. I like to imagine that Jock Stein and the Lisbon Lions might have made a contribution to that process.
Distressingly, I have heard murmurs among some that they have had enough of celebrations to mark landmark anniversaries of Celtic’s triumph in Lisbon. We’ve had festivities to mark the 19th, 21st, 25th, 30th, 40th and now 50th anniversaries. And until the last one of them takes his last breath I hope we will continue to honour them and throw banquets for them. It is the least that these 11 anointed men deserve for making a nation walk tall once more.
• This article is from the third edition of Nutmeg magazine• Follow Nutmeg and Kevin McKenna on Twitter
Crystal Palace are attempting to persuade Marco Silva to extend his career in the Premier League by succeeding Sam Allardyce at Selhurst Park, with the prospects of the Portuguese taking up the reins at Porto having receded.
Silva, whose Hull City team were relegated with a 4-0 defeat at Selhurst Park on the season’s penultimate weekend, is expected to confirm his intention to depart after only five months. Porto are understood to have opted against pursuing their initial interest, although there had been suggestions in Portugal Silva had reached a verbal agreement to move to the Estádio do Dragão.
The 39-year-old’s preference had been to remain in England, where he has made a favourable impression despite Hull’s poor away record and the late dip in form which condemned them to a swift return to the Championship. Palace were impressed with the impact he made under difficult circumstances since arriving on a short-term deal in January and have contacted his representatives to make clear their interest. The former Estoril, Sporting Lisbon and Olympiakos manager, who has a 12-month option on his contract at Hull, has also attracted interest from Watford and Southampton.
Palace were shocked by Allardyce’s decision to resign on Tuesday after the 62-year-old sought a break from top-level football following a tumultuous year that saw him save Sunderland, secure and then lose the England job after only 67 days and steer the London club to safety. Allardyce is due a £2m bonus for preserving Palace’s top-flight status, a payment he will receive if he does not accept another post within a specified timeframe, with his discussions with Steve Parish said to be “amicable”.
The Palace chairman is seeking a manager who has Premier League experience and can galvanise the existing players. The club are prepared to enter the transfer market this summer but theirs was a significant outlay in January on Luka Milivojevic – who worked with Silva at Olympiakos – Jeffrey Schlupp, Patrick van Aanholt and the Liverpool loanee Mamadou Sakho. They are conscious, too, of the need to appoint a manager who can eke the best out of Christian Benteke and Wilfried Zaha, whom the club hope to tie to improved terms.
The need to recruit and, most likely, integrate a new backroom staff before the players return for pre-season has added urgency to the appointment process. Yet Palace will have to wait until Silva has spoken with the Allams – their target was meeting with the Hull board on Wednesday night and was expected to inform them of his intention to leave.
The former Manchester City manager Roberto Mancini is unlikely to be interested in the Palace job, though the London club could explore Sean Dyche’s availability at Burnley if their move for Silva is thwarted.
Southampton appear to be the biggest threat, with Silva apparently less inclined to move to Watford to replace Walter Mazzarri. Claude Puel steered Saints to the League Cup final and an eighth-place finish but the Frenchman’s position will be reviewed this summer.
Silva arrived at Hull as a replacement for Mike Phelan and saw the club sell his two best players, Robert Snodgrass and Jake Livermore, during the January window, with a handful of replacements recruited on loan and short-term deals. His final match was a 7-1 home defeat by Tottenham Hotspur on Sunday.
“Has a professional game ever involved a player and official who were related?” asks Chris Ross. “Or, indeed, has a ref been forced to step down because of a family member participating?”
There has been a fairly recent example of this in Scotland. Steven McLean has refereed his brother, the former Northern Ireland international Brian, in reserve and youth games. “He knows he doesn’t get any favours,” said Steven in this interview. He had a punishment tool far greater than yellow or red cards. “I once booked him and told him if he committed the same offence again I’d tell mum.”
The chat between Stuart Pearce and his brother Ray was a little more Anglo-Saxon. Ray – not to be confused with Dennis Pearce, who was in the news for his political interests a few years ago – was a linesman who officiated when Stuart’s Nottingham Forest played away at Brighton in the 1986-87 Littlewoods Cup. Thanks to Andrew Rockall for sending details of the game and this confirmation.
It seems that nobody at Brighton knew about it, and it was not mentioned in the Guardian or Times match reports, or by the ITV commentator Brian Moore on Midweek Sports Special. All the talk was of Forest’s blistering start to the season: they were top of the table, having beaten Aston Villa 6-0 and Chelsea 6-2 in their last two games, and had an emerging team with five players aged 20 or under. The match ended 0-0.
Sadly the linesmen were positioned close to the right-backs rather than the left-backs, so there was no scope for the comedic fantasy of Pearce hoofing the right-winger into orbit as his brother demonstratively waved played on. Pearce reckons his brother disallowed a Brighton goal, though that may be artistic licence: it was not on the highlights or in the paper reports. That said, one Brighton fan has a vivid memory of the incident.
“I had no fears about his honesty,” said Pearce in his autobiography. “He would err on the side of Brighton rather than favour me. No one knew, apart from the Forest team. It was funny running up the wing and having my brother alongside me on the touchline. He could have booked me because I kept taking the mickey out of him – ‘Oi, you ginger dickhead,’ is one thing I remember calling him. Perhaps it is a good thing that he never became a League referee because it would have come out eventually that he was my brother.”
Do you know of any other related referees? If so, mail knowledge@theguardian.com or tweet @TheKnowledge_GU.
“Players are banned for disciplinary issues on the pitch and more than a few have found themselves without a driving licence for various reasons,” mails Vince Ely. “What are the most unusual things that players have been banned from doing away from football?”
We covered this a few years ago – and there are some gems in this link – but it’s well worth this update from Alex Harman. “As anyone (barring, perhaps, those with a life-threatening hazelnut allergy) who has tasted it in any capacity can attest, Nutella is one of the most moreish foods out there,” says Alex. “Few know this better than Werder Bremen forward Max Kruse. During a spell at Wolfsburg in the 2015-16 season, Kruse was summoned by manager Dieter Hecker and sporting director Klaus Allofs to be told, in no uncertain terms, that his consistent consumption of the indulgent spread was no longer going to be tolerated. It compounded a pretty miserable week for Kruse, who had already been fined £20,000 for disparaging the club’s reputation by leaving £60,000 worth of poker winnings in the back of a taxi.”
“After just 12 matches, Irish league leaders Cork City built up a gap of 14 points between themselves and second placed Bray Wanderers, having won all 12 of their games,” notes Kenneth O’Meara. “Surely a record so early in the season?”
It’s not a new record, but it may equal one. “Reading matched this in 1985-86 – they were 14 points clear after also winning their first 12 games,” writes Steve James. “They were 16 points clear after winning their 13th game as well.”
“What is the origin of the song that goes: ‘Everywhere we go, Everywhere we go, We’re the [club name] boys, making all the noise, everywhere we go …’?” asks James Mason. “This has been driving me mad. If you can’t help then I’m going to have to release a single which has the same tune and wait to see who sues.”
Pete Franklin has buzzed in faster than Monkman for this one. “The melody for this song is derived from a pop song aimed – I believe – at children, called ‘Pop Goes the World’ by the aptly-named Men Without Hats, who hail from Montreal. They enjoyed a brief run of singles during a dark period in the 80s. Their biggest hit was The Safety Dance, which is also the term for a relegation dogfight in Canada.”
“You said that Liverpool were the first British club to have a shirt sponsor (Hitachi in 1979), but while Liverpool are doubtless the first professional club to be sponsored, I’m pretty sure Kettering beat them to it by a few years. This is not a wind-up. Maybe you can confirm it?” asked Jon Cudby back in 2000.
Having spoken to Kettering club historian Mel Hopkins, Jon, we can indeed. When Wolves striker Derek Dougan retired from football in the summer of 1975, he joined Southern League club Kettering Town as chief executive. Within a month of his appointment, he had brokered a “four-figure” deal with local firm Kettering Tyres, and in a game against Bath City on 24 January 1976, Kettering became the first British club to run out with a company’s name emblazoned on their shirts.
Sadly, the groundbreaking new strip would not get another run-out. Four days later, the FA predictably ordered the club to remove the new slogan, despite Dougan’s claim that the ruling body’s 1972 ban on sponsorship had not been put down in writing.
Characteristically, Dougan didn’t take this body blow lying down. He cheekily changed the wording on the shirts to Kettering T, which he claimed stood for Town and had nothing whatsoever to do with Tyres. For a couple of heady months, the team played on under the new slogan.
Sure enough, however, Kettering were soon up before the FA, who ordered them to “remove the words Kettering T from their strip”. The threat of a £1,000 fine was too much for such a small club, and the words were reluctantly removed.
There would be one final irony. Kettering didn’t let the matter lie – after all, clubs like Bayern Munich had been coining it in on the continent for years – and so, with Derby and Bolton, they put forward a proposal to the FA regarding shirt sponsorship. But although the proposal was accepted on 3 June 1977, Kettering could not find a sponsor for the upcoming season. Meanwhile, Derby players began that season running around in Saab shirts and Saab cars. Where’s the justice?
“Dirk Kuyt announced his retirement this week, meaning he scored a hat-trick in his last professional game. I know Oliver Bierhoff did this with Chievo in 2003, but have there been any other examples?” asks Sam Carney.
“Chelsea finished the season with 93 points, 43 more than in 2015-16. That’s an even bigger swing than Leicester, who gained 40 extra points in their title-winning season. Has there ever been a bigger improvement in the top division in any country?” wonders James Bolle.
“Peterborough United finished the League One season with 62 GF, 62 GA, and 62 points,” points out Nick Bush. “Has any other team in English football (or anywhere else even) finished with the same GF, GA, and points total?”
Angela Lee wants people to think of her as a typical young woman, but that’s difficult to accept considering what she’s already done.
“I’m a normal person who happens to be a fighter and a world champion,” Lee, 20, tells the Guardian. The Canadian-born, Hawaii-raised fighter says this with a giggle and undeniable sincerity. Many people in her life, including those who make money off her, paint a picture of an athlete poised to breakout big in Asia – her father is from Singapore and her mother is South Korean – at a time when the continent is beginning to follow mixed martial arts in ways it was unable to before.
“Asian audiences are just now starting to engage in Asian content. All we’ve ever had access to was North American and European content. We were not prolific in producing quality Asian content. I’m talking world-class content. Sports or soap operas, it’s very new,” said promoter Victor Cui, the CEO International of ONE Championship, an MMA promotion focused on building stars such as Lee in Asia. “The way I look at it is this: Asia is very used to seeing global icons in martial arts, like Michelle Yeoh in Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. Seeing a talented female martial artist is not something foreign in Asia, which is why I think Angela is so readily accepted.”
“I don’t think there’s a ceiling” to Lee’s potential, added Cui, a former ESPN executive.
Lee, who is unbeaten seven fights into her professional MMA career, deserves at least a mention alongside the most heart-pounding prospects in the sport. Lee captured the championship belt in ONE’s atomweight division last year, and after defending it for the first time in March she is positioned to become the first breakout fighter of Asian descent in many years, with the potential for widespread fame looming.
At the start of Lee’s career in Asia she was quizzed on her background and heritage. Soon she learned how to respond. She was half-Korean, half-Chinese Singaporean, she told people, born in Canada and raised in Hawaii. “That’s kind of a mouthful,” Lee explained, but as the media and fan bases in different parts of Asia began to understand her story they quickly accepted her. “I’m a mix of everything and I think that’s a plus. It gives me more experience culturally knowing that I’ve been to these different places around the world.”
Lee was also shaped by the women pioneers who came before her – Gina Carano, Cris Cyborg and Ronda Rousey. “It made me want to pursue this even more,” Lee said. “I was training and competing and seeing them do their thing on TV and being able to travel and do what they love, it just really inspired me. I never had a thought in my mind that I wasn’t going to make it.
“My great grandma actually watches the fights. She’s not scared of anything. I think that’s why it kind of runs in our blood in my family. We’re all fighters in some sense.”
Unlike Carano, Cyborg and Rousey, from her earliest experiences in martial arts Lee was molded as a competitor with a full arsenal. That foundation produced a dynamic and aggressive fighter, who to this point has sought to finish her opponents in a variety of ways.
“Coming from a martial arts family and being introduced to the sport at such a young age, I just kind of grew up in it,” Lee said. “This is all I kind of knew. Martial arts is a huge part of my life – it always has been. I didn’t have a second option when it came to career choice. I didn’t see myself being a teacher or a doctor or something like that. I knew I wanted to do something MMA related.”
Observers of mixed fighting have anticipated an emergence of young competitors who would be well versed in all aspects of MMA – from striking to wrestling – from the moment they first stepped into the cage. Lee is certainly an example of that, and her talent has been a boon to ONE Championship. The promotion, a partner to the Singaporean government, signed Lee ahead of her professional debut in 2015 and quickly doubled down with a contract that made Lee among the highest paid female fighters in MMA.
“My advantage is that from the beginning I learned mixed martial arts as a whole,” Lee said. “You can see it from the transition from the standup to the ground and everything in between.”
Because of Lee and their stable of 450 fighters, ONE has experienced explosive growth over the past five years, claiming between 10 to 50 times the exposure in Asia compared to the industry leading UFC.
“We have been more fortunate in that there is one common denominator in our world, which is martial arts,” said Cui. “It’s the only sport that is truly Asian. It’s been the home of martial arts for the last 5,000 years. Every country we go to at its core has some form of martial arts that they’re fiercely proud of.
“So we actually go into a country and we don’t need to teach anybody that sport, whereas if we were bringing ice hockey to every country we would need to teach them who the Edmonton Oilers were everywhere we go. But whether you’re a five-year-old kid or a 105-year-old grandmother you know what the best martial artists are like and when two people come together there’s nothing to explain.”
Considering MMA’s business model is less than a quarter century old, the potential for Asia to challenge UFC’s dominance should not be dismissed.
“We’re at the very early days, literally scratching the surface of what the opportunity is,” Cui said. “I think you’re going to see more and more our content and TV ratings starting to dominate because of the combination of our live broadcast, the sport, our local heroes and the simplicity of the rules. If we continue to to exponentially grow on social media with content, man, for us to hit a billion impressions in the first quarter and it took us a year last year I was really shocked.”
The potential audience in Asia has Cui most excited. During a panel discussion on Asia’s entrepreneurs earlier this month in Los Angeles, Cui noted that China was poised to spend $18tn on sports in the next 20 years. In 2016, Cui moved his office from Singapore to Shanghai to focus on developing their Chinese business.
“The advantage with Asia is the rest of the world does want to see who the next Bruce Lee is,” Cui said. “They want to see who the next Asian athlete is [in combat sports]. There is a legitimate interest among fans to see what Asians are going to be the best in the world. That’s not common in any other sport. No one is waiting for the next Chinese champion in tennis.”
In March, Lee visited Shanghai to conduct a workshop with Nike. Unlike in the US, where big brands have remained reticent to fully support MMA – especially after embarrassing mishaps with the likes of troubled former UFC champion Jon Jones that prompted Nike to pull back from MMA in North America – the Asian side of the business has been ripe for promotion. Disney’s Marvel, for example, partnered with ONE Championship to launch its films to Asian audience.
Lee is also a big plus for any promotion intending to make inroads in Asia. “[Brands] are much more inclined to have an Angela Lee working with them,” said Cui. “If she was fluent in Chinese that would be amazing.”
The central figure in the Europa League final will be the man who is most profoundly absent: Johan Cruyff. The former player, coach and guru died 14 months ago but the thrilling young Ajax side who have emerged in the past couple of months are built in his image and according to his principles.
There are few precedents for the speed, scale and significance of the team’s transformation. Last August, Ajax lost 4-1 to Rostov in a Champions League qualifier with a dire performance that seemed to confirm the once-great Dutch club’s irreversible decline and as recently as last month, the notion Ajax were about to sweep to their first European final since 1996 would have seemed absurd.
But the manager, Peter Bosz, in his first season, had been slowly building something remarkable. The first sign something was afoot came in a stunning victory in the first leg of their quarter-final against Schalke six weeks ago. “It was like watching the 1974 World Cup team,” says Auke Kok, Cruyff’s biographer. “I never thought I’d see an Ajax team playing this way again.”
Ajax won 2-0 but could have scored six and the ferocity of their pressing and daring use of a high offside line to pen back their opponents was reminiscent of total football. “No one could quite believe what we were seeing and there was a feeling in the stadium which was almost non-Dutch and non-Ajax, as if the people and players became one body. It was intimidating and an emotional release from the fans who’d been watching disappointing, boring games for too long.”
Almost as impressive was the fighting spirit that saw Ajax recover from near-disaster in the second leg. Schalke scored three goals before Ajax rallied and scored twice near the end to reach the last four.
The semi-final against Lyon followed a similar pattern: a stunning home victory – this time 4-1 – followed by a wobble in the second leg, staved off with surprising resilience as Ajax won 5-4 on aggregate.
Many outsiders will assume Ajax have found their new team by simply and serenely doing what they always do – nurturing young talent – but that is not what happened. Many of the key players, such as the Colombian defender Davinson Sánchez and Moroccan midfielder Hakim Ziyech, arrived only this season.
More importantly, the new Bosz is not the same as the old boss. Under the previous manager, Frank de Boer, Ajax won four successive Dutch titles but, so devout was his attachment to his mentor Louis van Gaal’s principles of possession and patient buildup, the team sometimes took 20 minutes to manage a shot on goal.
The club’s recent history has also been tumultuous. In 2011, frustrated by years of mediocrity, Cruyff led a group of former players who forced out the old management. Unfortunately, this “Cruyff Revolution” followed the pattern of the French and Russian ones. With the old regime gone, the insurrectionists turned on each other and supporters of Cruyff battled those of Van Gaal.
Even by Dutch football standards, the dispute was bitter. Lawyers got involved, lifelong friendships were broken. In part the conflict centred on a personality clash – Cruyff and Van Gaal loathed each other – but there was also a philosophical issue going back to the time Cruyff and his coach Rinus Michels co-created total football in the early 70s.
Cruyff and Van Gaal both loved the spatially sophisticated attacking football on which the club’s reputation rests but there were crucial differences. Following Michels, Van Gaal put his faith more in systems and rigid application of tactics. Cruyff believed in giving the most talented players freedom within a looser tactical structure.
In 2011 Cruyff, who wanted top former players to run the club, triumphed but his followers soon fell out and his favourite, Wim Jonk, was eventually sacked by his former friends.
In late 2015, Cruyff was diagnosed with lung cancer. His last public appearance, two weeks before he died, came in a short video and photographs taken in Israel with his son Jordi, the technical director of Maccabi Tel Aviv. Largely unremarked on at the time was the fact that Bosz, then the Maccabi manager, was also present.
Cruyff’s death on 24 March triggered a huge outpouring of emotion in the Netherlands, where he was celebrated mainly for his achievements as a player. Commentators stayed tactfully silent about the “revolution” which they saw as a blemish on his career.
It seems Cruyff never gave up on his dreams for Ajax and those last pictures have since acquired a new resonance. Bosz had long admired Cruyff. His other main influence was Pep Guardiola, Cruyff’s protege and disciple.
Likewise, Jordi and Johan Cruyff were fans of Bosz, mainly because of the attacking football his teams played when he was the manager of Heracles and Vitesse Arnhem in the Netherlands.
For two years Jordi tried to persuade Bosz to join him at Maccabi and, in January last year, he got his man. The idea the appointment might be a stepping stone back to the Netherlands was written into the contract. Bosz would return home to manage Ajax if the Amsterdam club wanted him.
We do not know if Jordi, or indeed Johan, suggested Bosz to the Ajax directors, or if his talents fitted with their desire for attacking football. Either way, after the popular De Boer chose to leave – eventually joining Internazionale for an ill-fated spell – Bosz got the job.
It is now clear that in early March 2016 Bosz had a transformative experience. He and Cruyff spent a week talking. We don’t know exactly what was said but, as Bosz said: “In one week I learned enough for 10 years.”
He now cites Cruyff constantly and has been putting his ideas into practice. Ruud Gullit was among those who warned that pursuing romantic Cruyffian ideas was doomed to fail in modern football. Bosz persisted and has slowly taught his team to play the aggressive pressing game we tend to associate with Guardiola and Jürgen Klopp, but which originated with Cruyff in the Ajax and Holland teams of the 70s.
Like Cruyff, Bosz gives his players confidence to take risks and urges them to play hard, be creative and express themselves. The flowering of players under his tutelage has been remarkable. Sánchez, only 20, is rapidly maturing into a defender with the authority and charisma of Velibor Vasovic, the tough Serbian captain of Ajax in the late 60s and early 70s.
Davy Klaassen, who had previously struggled in the role of prime creator, has been reborn as a combative midfielder and team leader. André Onana, once considered a calamity-prone reserve goalkeeper, has become sensational. The defenders Nick Viergever and the 17-year-old Matthijs de Ligt have both improved to an astonishing degree.
All through the team, the progress of each individual seems to inspire the others and contribute to the whole. The new creation is still fragile and this new Ajax could easily lose to the more experienced Manchester United, but off-field finances probably pose a greater danger to their development.
After helping Ajax win the Champions League in 1995, Jari Litmanen famously urged his fellow players to keep the team together. They ignored him and the best young side of the decade soon disintegrated.
This month the club’s bewitching new midfield star, Ziyech, made the same plea. It probably will not work. The lure of bigger, richer clubs will surely draw away many if not all of Ajax’s crop of young stars.
For now though, whatever happens against United on Wednesday, Ajax have something extraordinary to celebrate: a return to their roots, and the posthumous vindication of the greatest figure in their history.
There are quite a few interesting races scattered around the programme on Wednesday, including the Listed Rothesay Stakes for fillies and mares up at Ayr, but the seven-furlong handicap at Yarmouth could offer the best bet of the day as Realize (4.30) attempts to record his first win on turf since July 2013.
Realize has made a name for himself as an all-weather performer, and managed to finish sixth of 12 runners in the All-Weather Sprint Championship on Finals day at Lingfield last month. He is undoubtedly better on artificial surfaces than he is on turf, but his handicap mark reflects that – 102 versus 81 – and this afternoon’s race is his first for Dave Simcock after he was sold for 26,000gns earlier this month.
That sale followed a solid third place over course and distance in a better race than today’s, and in addition to dropping down a grade from Class 3 to 4, Realize has also been dropped 1lb in the ratings. That should make him very competitive at this level, and at around 3-1, he is very fairly priced.
King Oswald (4.00) also has plenty going for him at the prices on the same card. His third place at Haydock last time out looks like solid form, as the time was unusually strong for the grade and Cosmic Ray, who finished fourth, is a winner since. A couple of those that finished further back have also shown better form since, and King Oswald is an decent bet at around 11-2 to frank the form again.
Maleficent Queen took the first running of the Rothesay Stakes 12 months ago and returns for another crack at the same race today, but there was nothing of the quality of Nezwaah (5.20) in the field last time and Roger Varian’s filly will be very hard to beat.
Inexes (4.20) is a fair price at around 7-1 on the same card judged on his form with Nicholas T, the favourite, at Doncaster last month, while at Kempton this evening, Wadigor (7.40) should pick up where he left off last year in the most interesting race on the card. Dubai’s Secret (8.10) is over-priced at 12-1 in Kempton’s one-mile handicap, as he looked as though he needed the outing on his first start since being gelded at Ripon last month. His form at both Newbury and Newmarket last season gives him a big chance today if he is somewhere close to his best.
Ayr 2.20 Noble Manners 2.50 Duncan Of Scotland 3.20 Secret City 3.50 Straightothepoint 4.20 Inexes 4.50 Restive 5.20 Nezwaah 5.55 Stoneboat Bill
Kempton Park 6.10 Transmitting 6.40 Margherita 7.10 Di Fede 7.40 Wadigor 8.10 Dubai’s Secret (nb) 8.40 Broughtons Fancy 9.10 Arctic Angel
Yarmouth 2.00 Cartographer 2.30 Tyrsal 3.00 Graceful Lady 3.30 In Ken’s Memory 4.00 King Oswald 4.30 Realize (nap) 5.00 Swilly Sunset
Lingfield Park 2.10 Cross Step 2.40 Brooke’s Point 3.10 Rosa Damascena 3.40 Kerrymerry 4.10 Taajub 4.40 Regarde Moi 5.10 Fleeting Glimpse
Southwell 5.50 Yes Daddy 6.20 Minella Tweet 6.50 Follow The Bear 7.20 Lerichi Belle 7.50 Lovely Touch 8.20 Lilly’s Legend 8.50 Hello Bertie
Iker Casillas has won five Spanish titles, three Champions Leagues, two European Championships and the World Cup – but can he do it with Dejan Lovren and Ragnar Klavan in front of him? That’s the question that Jürgen Klopp will seek to answer if reports in the Spanish newspaper AS haven’t been made up to fill a space (if so, thanks AS, you’ve filled a space for the Mill, too! Our cheque’s in the post. The cheque has been made up, too).
The Spanish organ is claiming that Casillas could be on his way to Anfield after two years at Porto during which he won nothing but performed better than he did towards the end of his long spell at Real Madrid. So much so that Klopp suspects he could offer Liverpool’s defenders more solidity and confidence than Simon Mignolet does. Then again, Klopp apparently thought the same thing about Loris Karius, so his judgment is very much in the dock on that front. This could be a decisive summer for the Liverpool manager.
Arsenal and West Ham are reported to have turned down the chance to sign Casillas because they thought his wage demands were exorbitant for a 36-year-old and, besides, they have other priorities. West Ham, for example, are hoping to persuade Michy Batshuayi to join them from Chelsea and also want Chris Smalling to leave Manchester United for a chance to play regularly within view of 57,000 people at the Olympic Stadium.
Arsenal, meanwhile, are keeping their transfer cards close to their chest.
Or maybe they don’t have a clue what they’re doing. It’s hard to know with them these days. You’d like to think they’re on top of things but we have to accept that there’s a small risk that Sir Chips Keswick and Lord Harris of Peckham have lost the plot. Bayern Munich and Manchester City are both convinced that they will be able to prise Alexis Sánchez away from the Emirates this summer. That would of course be a humiliating and damaging loss for Arsenal but, as the young folks might type, Bayern 10-2 do that to Arsenal.
Speaking of Arsenal, let’s stop. It’s time to mention Sunderland and Middlesbrough, both of whom are said to be after Nigel Pearson. The availability of both jobs gives us a handy indicator by which to gauge candidates’ suitability. We might say, for instance, that anyone who would pick Sunderland over Boro at the moment is highly unlikely to be the sort of decision-maker who’s going to be guiding anyone to success any time soon.
James Rodríguez to Manchester United? Not if Chelsea have anything to do with it. The champions are said to be keen on the Colombian and confident of landing him, especially if United don’t have any Champions League football to offer. So that’s yet another thing riding on tonight’s Europa League final, along with José Mourinho’s reputation.
Clarence Seedorf has won more Champions Leagues than Mourinho and, indeed, more than Manchester United. And now the Dutchman says he wants to manage in England. Hmmmn. Would he pass the Sunderland/Middlesbrough test?
From 1996 to 2013, one of the members of the executive committee of Fifa, the body that runs world football, was an American businessman and former manufacturer of smiley-face badges called Chuck Blazer. For most of that time, Blazer was also general secretary of the Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football (Concacaf), one of the half dozen international federations that Fifa helps fund. At Blazer’s instigation, Concacaf rented offices and apartments in Trump Tower in Manhattan. One of the apartments was for the sole use of Blazer’s cats. They “peed all over the floor”, Guardian journalist David Conn records, “and made the place stink”.
When it comes to the moral shortcomings of modern football, writers are not exactly short of metaphors. The challenge is more the opposite: how to make people who love the game despite everything want to read another catalogue of its off-pitch horrors. Since 2010, Conn writes, “seven members of that 22-man Fifa executive committee have been charged or accused by the US authorities of criminal wrongdoing; another, Franz Beckenbauer, is under criminal investigation in Switzerland and Germany over … Germany’s 2006 World Cup bid [he maintains his innocence]. Six more members, including [Sepp] Blatter and [Michel] Platini, have been sanctioned by Fifa’s own ethics committee.” For many years now, Fifa has been associated with corruption, bribery, cronyism and seedily close relationships with corporations, dictatorships and repressive governments – and all the while football has carried on expanding regardless, becoming not just the world’s favourite sport but arguably its dominant mass culture. What difference will another anti-Fifa book make?
Conn begins with a brief, pointedly innocent chapter, entitled “The People’s Game”, about his own appreciation of football’s “simple, natural” qualities, which started when he was a child in the early 1970s. It’s an obvious opening – the 70s football memoir being a standard non-fiction crowd-pleaser – but it is still a useful one, as in Britain much recent investigative writing about football feels as if it’s been done by people who don’t actually like the sport. Conn’s heartfelt portrait of the Dutch great Johan Cruyff, “elegant beyond imagining” in his sinuous play at the 1974 World Cup, also serves as a contrast with the unlovely Fifa patriarchs to come.
Founded in 1904 as a tiny organisation to arrange matches between half a dozen European countries – England, with its older, more self-important football culture, declined an initial invitation to join – Fifa retained an element of restraint and high-mindedness for its first seven decades. It established the World Cup, rapidly absorbed football associations from other continents, and moved its headquarters from Paris to Zurich in less financially transparent Switzerland. Yet as late as the 60s and early 70s its president was Sir Stanley Rous, a conscientious English former referee who refused to be paid a salary.
Conn admires Rous, but only up to a point. Rous’s belief that sport should remain uncontaminated by the outside world, and that Fifa should not therefore take what he saw as political stances, led him to maintain relations with apartheid South Africa and Augusto Pinochet’s dictatorship in Chile. In 1973, when the Soviet Union objected to playing a World Cup qualifier in a Chilean stadium that had been used, only weeks earlier, as a centre for the torture and murder of political prisoners, Fifa refused to let the Russians take on Chile in another venue instead, and then excluded them from the tournament.
The following year, Rous was challenged and defeated for the elected Fifa presidency by João Havelange, a rich, white Brazilian businessman with links to his own country’s military government, who shamelessly but shrewdly presented himself as a radical alternative: the champion of the poorer football-playing countries, often former European colonies. Unlike many British journalists, who have become steadily more outraged by Fifa’s behaviour as Britain’s influence over the organisation has waned, Conn is judicious in how he assesses Havelange and his even more tainted successor, Blatter. “Havelange did, without question, help himself to bribes,” Conn writes. The Brazilian played a central part in “instituting a culture of corruption” at Fifa – a culture of favours strategically handed out and reliably reciprocated, which helped keep him in office for almost a quarter of a century, from 1974 to 1998.
Yet Conn also points out that in Havelange’s Fifa power-seeking, greed and idealism could not always be disentangled. Havelange used his presidency to hugely expand the World Cup and Fifa’s income, distributing some of the proceeds, as promised, to non-European countries. Afterwards, he remained honorary Fifa president until 2013, when his bribe-taking was finally officially exposed. He was 96 years old.
But the central and most interesting character of this book is Blatter. Conn introduces him so early, barely 40 pages in, and then returns to him so often, that at times the book feels unbalanced. Chapter after chapter lays out the many malign dimensions of his tenure at Fifa, and how they were eventually uncovered, each passage written in the dense, demanding prose of traditional investigative journalism. The material can be startling, but it is not allowed to breathe enough.
Amid all the exposition, some details stand out: incessant “gifts” from football associations to Fifa grandees – “$1,983 spent by the AFC [Asian Football Confederation] … on 14 shirts” for Blatter; a whistleblower from the tiny Bahamas football association bravely exposing a bribery operation via a “brown envelope of cash down his trousers”; and a “centre of excellence” for football in Trinidad, built with “at least $25.95m” of Fifa money, including “conference and banquet halls ... a hotel ... a swimming-pool complex” and pitches where e a visitor tells Conn that he “did not find much football going on”.
By the 2010s, Blatter’s Fifa was even more two-faced than Havelange’s: issuing ever grander public declarations about football as a force for global good, while internally becoming “a totalitarian world of patronage and dependence”, as Conn puts it, allowing his outrage to show, as he occasionally but tellingly does. In 2011, despite widening revelations about some of his closest Fifa allies, Blatter was re-elected president with 92% of the vote. One of the keys to his longevity at Fifa, where he had first started work in 1975, was his interest in power before personal enrichment. Conn writes carefully that Blatter “appears not to have indulged in … crude corruption, as his predecessor and many of his executive committee members did.” How much Blatter knew about this corruption, and whether he tolerated or encouraged it to secure his own position, is a question Conn does not explicitly answer. There are multiple ongoing investigations into Fifa and its former president, and Conn wants “to be fair to Blatter”, not a phrase you encounter often in British journalism. But he does underline where his book’s evidence is pointing: “This history of his organisation … shows that the rottenness did set in from the top.”
Conn wants 'to be fair to Blatter', but underlines 'the rottenness did set in from the top'
Blatter’s presidency was finally terminated by Fifa’s ethics committee – some might consider that a contradiction in terms – in 2015. Conn is an experienced and worldly reporter, and he has few illusions about why Blatter’s Fifa ultimately unravelled. One of the crucial whistleblowers, Conn shows, was Blazer, who himself “had been taking kickbacks and embezzling money … for years”, but had decided that the excesses of another Fifa executive, Jack Warner, had become so blatant that they threatened the gravy train’s continuation. Fifa’s president is now Gianni Infantino, a self-declared reformer. But Conn remains sceptical, noting the “clear similarities” between his rise to power, based on the relentless lobbying of football executives worldwide, and those of Havelange and Blatter.
This book has a cumulative power, piling betrayal on betrayal, until they even include one of Conn’s childhood idols from the 1974 World Cup, the German player Franz Beckenbauer. “Always upright” and “exquisite” in his playing style, decades later he was found offering “1,000 tickets to Warner for the 2006 World Cup, should it be held in Germany”.
There are gaps in the narrative. There is a lack of first-hand reporting from the facilities in poor countries which Fifa may, or may not, have effectively funded. Many of Conn’s requests to talk to some of the protagonists were turned down. But the book ends beautifully with an expansive interview with Blatter, after he has been deposed, in Fifa’s own lavish hilltop restaurant above Zurich. While Conn eats côte de boeuf and porcini “of deep flavour”, and a thunderstorm swirls outside, the 80-year-old Blatter is by turns frail, uncomprehending about his fall, and manipulative as ever. Football is a good game for slippery people.
• The Fall of the House of Fifa is published by Yellow Jersey. To order a copy for £14.44 (RRP £16.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
The possibility of Perth hosting a UFC event is ever more likely after the Western Australian government moved to overturn its ban on the enclosures used by the world’s leading mixed martial arts promotion.
MMA is legal in WA but the state government introduced a ban on “cages” – octagonal soft mesh fenced enclosures – in 2013 under former premier Colin Barnett, who also described the sport as gladiatorial and violent.
Since then, MMA athletes have been forced to fight in boxing rings, but safety fears – centred on participants falling through the gaps between ropes and out of ring – have prompted a rethink.
“It’s a safety issue. Now, the consequence of that is we expect UFC will come to Perth, that may well be announced in the future,” WA’s incumbent premier Mark McGowan said on Wednesday.
McGowan said he had previously held talks with the UFC and they are likely to be resurrected if the ban is overturned.
“I haven’t spoken to them for quite some time, but obviously Western Australia is an environment where a lot of people like the sport and haven’t had the opportunity of seeing it,” he said.
“A lot of people out there like it, a lot of people don’t like it. It’s one of those issues where we just want to make it safe and if a UFC event comes to Perth, well, then that’s a tourism-creating consequence.”
The changes would bring WA into line with the rest of Australia and prevent the sport from being driven underground, the Minister for Sport and Recreation, Mick Murray, said.
Murray said fighters should undergo strict health checks before and after entering the ring. 
Kyrie Irving took over in the second half and finished with 42 points, LeBron James added 34 and the Cleveland Cavaliers moved within one win of an almost inevitable third date in the NBA finals with Golden State by rallying to beat the Boston Celtics 112-99 on Tuesday night in Game 4 of the Eastern Conference finals.
Irving stayed on the floor despite rolling his left ankle in the third quarter, when he scored 19 in under five minutes, and James shook off early foul trouble as the Cavs opened a 3-1 lead in the series.
Wow, Kyrie. pic.twitter.com/kiEZWdJT5y
The defending NBA champions can wrap up their third straight conference title — and a “three-match” against the Warriors — with a win in Game 5 on Thursday night in Boston. But if Games 3 and 4 are any indication, it won’t be easy.
Fighting to keep their season alive, the Celtics aren’t giving an inch despite playing without All-Star guard Isaiah Thomas, who may need surgery on a hip injury. The Cavs, meanwhile, wouldn’t be on the edge of the finals without Irving.
With Cleveland in jeopardy of dropping their second game in a row after James followed an 11-point Game 3 by picking up four first-half fouls, Irving put on a breathtaking one-man show in the third quarter. Freezing Boston defenders with his dribble and driving to the basket whenever he wanted, Irving made six layups, two three-pointers and a free throw in a dizzying span of 4:48. He capped his blistering 19-point outburst with a three in the final second of the quarter and celebrated at mid-court by pretending to put two pistols back in his holster.
When the horn sounded, Cleveland’s players poured off the bench to greet him. They had to be careful not to knock him off his feet after Irving had put a scare through the frenzied Quicken Loans Arena crowd moments earlier when he stepped on the foot of Boston’s Terry Rozier. Irving stayed on the floor for several seconds before sitting up and re-tying his left sneaker.
Nothing was keeping him out though.
Kevin Love added 17 points and 17 rebounds for the Cavs, now 11-1 in the postseason. Avery Bradley scored 19 and Jae Crowder 18 for Boston.
Cavs coach Tyronn Lue chuckled before the game when he was asked if he planned to say anything to James following his substandard performance in Game 3. “No message,” Lue said. “Just come out, be aggressive, in attack mode like he has been over the last four or five months. Nothing has changed.”
Lue should have warned James to be careful, too, as the superstar picked up four fouls and spent the final 6:46 watching from the bench, unable to help his team. But beyond James’ foul trouble, the Cavs were having other issues as the Celtics outplayed them at both ends while opening a 16-point lead.
Irving kept Cleveland within striking distance while James was out by scoring 12 points over the final 5:11 of the second quarter. And in the third quarter, the All-Star guard had James’ back again, keeping the Cavs on their collision course with the Warriors.
Unafraid of lighting the proverbial cauldron, David Warner last week gave life to a worst-case scenario in the ever-freezing pay stalemate between Cricket Australia and the Australian Cricketers’ Association. The inferred threat was simple: if the current model is not retained, we may not play. “The Bull goes bang,” said Ed Cowan in reference to Warner’s comments on Twitter, and it was indeed a statement of intent in keeping with someone called The Bull. It set in train a raft of hypotheticals that kept speculation bubbling: how would Ashes opponents England feel about it? Who would pay for lost revenue? Will we see Australian cricketers cross not only a picket-fence, but a picket-line to earn themselves a baggy green?
While Warner’s comments marked the highest-pressure point in an issue that shows no signs of abating, both sides have been quick to hose down the notion of either no Ashes, or an Ashes where England take on Australia’s best grade cricketers. A CA spokesman confirmed to Guardian Australia their confidence that “this negotiation will not affect any Australian cricket”. They were less the bullish words of a corporation in complete control than a conciliatory undertaking to assure the public that actual cricket isn’t under threat. Similarly, while the ACA has not publicly sought to dilute Warner’s boycott musings, privately they concede any cricket strike would be a disastrous result for them too. Both sides want cricket played, and remain acutely aware that any contrivance not to would be hugely damaging to all parties.
However, a packed Gabba on 23 November does not necessarily mean an memorandum of understanding will be in place. If the impasse continues beyond the 30 June deadline, Australian runs and wickets could still occur under short-term, essentially-workaround agreements. That “there are options” is a sentiment that echoes on both sides of the ledger, so it would appear that an agreed MOU – while preferred by both parties – is not a precondition for an Ashes series. We should see some cricket.
In the meantime, a curious public relations battle ploughs on. It’s a battle that has largely been drawn along top-line, almost clichéd political frames: CA as the union-busting corporate behemoth run by hawkish business types seeking maximum returns; the ACA as a proud collection of workers whose leaders champion solidarity, sacrifice and partnership in pursuit of a fair share. So far, the players’ resolve has been nothing if not impressive.
Across platforms, publications and pubs, their message has never wavered. They remain resolute that the revenue share model – whereby their fortunes rise and, as many seem to overlook, fall, with the commercial outcomes of the game – must be the mechanism used. It’s solidarity that is rooted less in commitment to coin than an insistence on status. And as the deadline looms on the current MOU, there are zero signs of relenting. Across the country, journalists are opening their contact books and combing the professional ranks for a mere hint of concern, or foot out of step. There are none, and it should stand to some reason. Australian cricketers are not, and don’t pretend to be, industrial relations experts. But their sport leaves them mentally prepared to recognise and handle a bit of gamesmanship when they see it. When it comes to ruthlessness and intimidation, sometimes it takes one to know one.
However in that context, Warner’s comments may not have delivered the wallop intended, but a slight miscue. As a leading Australian player – and one who would financially benefit from CAs proposal in the short-term – his preparedness to withdraw his labour in solidarity with his colleagues was undoubtedly noble. But in so colourfully articulating the prospect of a player strike during an Australian summer, he has risked the ire of a public largely without the time or inclination to study the fine details of an industrial relations dispute. Warner was trying to do the moral thing with good reason, but it will take a mountain of messaging to stop an increasingly headline-driven world from equating a player strike with player greed. It’s a scenario that would weaken the ACA’s position, and partly explains their attempts to reframe the conversation from one edging towards money back to principle.
Meanwhile, CA’s public silence remains slightly mystifying. They maintain it’s driven by a dignified commitment to avoid negotiation via media, but surely if you leave enough of a vacuum someone else will fill it. Perhaps the expanded media arm they’re planning makes sense after all. Surely, by proposing a fundamental change to the status of players in the game, it has been incumbent on them to carry the burden of explaining the rationale behind it. Because as the ACA pushes forward with public and cogent demonstrations of their very real influence and strength in these negotiations, 30 June is not far away and beyond vague-sounding promises of increased funding for grassroots cricket, the game’s administrative body remains hushed, oddly so. While they may feel entitled to greater control over the game’s finances – and have good reason to feel that way – their relative silence means the image of a hard-edged, uncompromising corporation prevails. Perhaps that’s how they like it, too.
Kyle Chalmers, an Australian Olympic gold medallist, will undergo heart surgery and miss the swimming world championships in Hungary. The 18-year-old, who rose to prominence with victory in the 100m freestyle in Rio last year, suffers from a longstanding condition that has on occasion affected his activities in the pool.
In November last year Chalmers was forced to withdraw from the Australian national short course championships as his heart rate spiked just before he was due to race in the freestyle final.
The South Australian has suffered from supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) since birth, which causes occasional sharp increases in heart rate and leads to dizziness. It is not the first time he has gone under the knife in an attempt to alleviate the problem.
“I have been swimming with an ongoing heart condition known as supraventricular tachycardia and have increasingly begun to suffer from an abnormally fast heart rhythm during training and competitions, which now requires surgery,” Chalmers said. “I have had a surgery in the past and, unfortunately, it did not work.
“Whilst the timing for this follow up is not ideal, the symptoms have reached a point where I must act to ensure I am in peak physical condition for next year’s Commonwealth Games trials and hopefully the Commonwealth Games.”
Chalmers will miss the competition in Budapest but does not envisage a lengthy absence from competitive swimming following the surgery, which he is expected to undergo in the next few weeks.
“There is never a good time for this type of procedure, but given I’ve suffered from these symptoms during two of the past three major meets, and following my doctor’s advice, I have made the tough decision to withdraw,” Chalmers said. “I can’t wait to be back in the pool in a few weeks and I wish all the Aussies competing at the world championships the best of luck.”
His coach, Peter Bishop, said it was in Chalmer’s long-term interest to get the surgery done “sooner rather than later” while the Australian swim team coach, Jacco Verhaeren, echoed that view.
“We are at the beginning of a new Olympic cycle, and for some of our athletes we need to look at longevity to allow them to stay at the highest level for longer,” Verhaeren said. “Kyle has our full support and we know he will use this time away from competition positively and to his advantage to return for a home Commonwealth Games in 2018 and beyond.”
Here at last comes cricket’s chance to dominate the sporting agenda. England and South Africa gathered at Headingley on the eve of the first of three ODIs, which both sides acknowledge are the ideal preparation for next month’s Champions Trophy.
The sun was shining in Leeds, with the promise of another fine day on Wednesday. The “superstars” of the IPL, such as Ben Stokes, Jos Buttler, AB de Villiers and Hashim Amla, were out there strutting their stuff; the pitch looked brown and brimful of runs, and even the old rugby stand seemed in unusually pristine condition in anticipation of an eager audience.
Yet the mood was inevitably sombre. Both camps offered their sympathy and prayers to the victims of the Manchester atrocity but there was never any doubt that the match would proceed. Even so, South Africa’s tour manager, Mohammed Moosajee, did not try to hide the obvious apprehensions of his touring party.
“As you can understand, we have some genuine concerns,” Moosajee said. “The players are uneasy. There was a lot of chatter at the breakfast table. I’m happy to say we’ve had constant communication from the ECB and their security manager [Reg Dickason]. There have been guarantees put in place that security arrangements will be supplemented, starting today. We’re told there will be a more visible police presence at the stadium, at practice sessions as well as at the hotels. As things stand there’s no mention of us even thinking of abandoning the tour.”
Security concerns are now an occupational hazard around the globe and not only for cricketers, so both captains were able to focus upon the task in hand – and of course the need for “momentum” before the Champions Trophy in June. De Villiers is a polite man and was hardly likely to quibble with the notion of England as favourites (even though his side have just beaten Australia, Sri Lanka and New Zealand, and are comfortably clear at the top of the ODI rankings).
“They are one of the favourites. They have an all-round balance with a few bowling options; they bat deep and they are mostly athletes. With the batting strength of both sides these ODIs should be very exciting.”
Eoin Morgan also sees the virtue of playing the best in preparation for the Champions Trophy, where England meet Bangladesh, New Zealand and Australia in the group stage. In the captain’s mind England’s revival may have started in South Africa, where they lost a thrilling series 3-2 in February 2016.
“I thought we learned lessons from South Africa,” he said. “You can lose a game but not lose a lesson. That is always a message from our coach and backroom staff. Now I think it’s important that we go out and play the way we have done in the last two years because what we have done has worked.” Morgan does not want any creeping conservatism when his side is subjected to what is essentially a string of knockout matches in the Champions Trophy.
Morgan would not reveal his side for Wednesday’s match but he confirmed that Moeen Ali, omitted against Ireland, would play, presumably alongside Adil Rashid. Morgan also hinted that Jonny Bairstow would remain on the sidelines, despite his recent swashbuckling (albeit against Ireland).
“It’s always hard to leave Jonny out,” Morgan said. “He never lets us down and this is his home ground but we’ve got a very strong top seven; we’ve proved that as a unit.” Which hardly suggests that Bairstow should have an especially early night – particularly since the match does not start until 2pm BST anyway.
Everyone is fit, available and “raring to go” for the first time in a while, a happy situation not matched by the likely Test squad since the extent of Jimmy Anderson’s injury, acquired at the start of the recent Roses match, was confirmed by the England and Wales Cricket Board. The announcement was ominous: “He has a tear to his right groin and will be fully assessed on Wednesday by the medical team to understand the full extent of his injury.”
Anderson will miss Lancashire’s Championship match against Yorkshire, starting on 2 June. It is possible he may recover in time for the first Test on 6 July but there can be no guarantees with an injury of this type.
Meanwhile, England’s Indian Premier League triumvirate, who were allowed to stay in India the longest (Stokes, Buttler and Chris Woakes) are in a happier frame of mind and body. Morgan, a constant advocate of the benefits of playing in the IPL, has spied no weariness.
“The IPL is a tough tournament but Spain [where the squad spent four days last week] was brilliant for us: a lot of hard work and team bonding. Probably the three guys who missed out on the Ireland games came back with more enthusiasm. They were delighted to be home and on the cusp of a big tournament. They are fired up for it.”
Getting the bowling combination right is trickier for Morgan than the batting. He likes the variety of a left-armer (David Willey) but the white ball has not been swinging much this summer and it has not been landing precisely where Willey intends. Hence he might struggle to make the final XI at his adopted home.
Even so, Morgan insists on his bowlers “chasing” wickets in a very 21st century way. “If somebody bowls a bouncer with no fine leg, it’s not a problem when they are trying to stay ahead of the batsman, to catch him off guard, especially when he’s ‘in’. Doing something obscure to try to get the batsman out, I don’t mind that at all.”
Such a liberal view may be a gust of fresh air to his bowlers. Whether Morgan will be able to maintain that view at the sharp end of a taut contest with a semi-final or final place at stake in the Champions Trophy in a couple of weeks’ time remains to be seen.
For the moment there is just the hope that cricket can announce itself with gusto to the wider public in 2017 and that it can heighten the sensation that the summer has finally arrived along with the South Africans.
Jimmy Anderson is facing an extended spell on the sidelines after the England and Wales Cricket Board announced the seamer has torn his groin.
The 34-year-old, England’s leading Test wicket-taker with 467, collapsed in pain on Friday while bowling for Lancashire against Roses rivals Yorkshire.
He was unable to bowl for the remainder of the match but made a surprise appearance with the bat, making eight not out in seven deliveries at the end of the drawn encounter at Old Trafford.
Anderson will miss the return fixture at Headingley while the ECB’s medical team attempt to determine how bad the injury is. The first Test of the summer is not until 7 July at Lord’s, after the Champions Trophy, leaving plenty of rehabilitation time but it is not uncommon for such complaints to come with a six-week lay-off. PA
George Ford has accepted he must shoulder the responsibility for inspiring England’s attack in the absence of his fellow playmaker Owen Farrell after Eddie Jones conceded his fly-half’s form has tailed off towards the end of the season.
Ford is expected to start for England at fly-half against the Barbarians on Sunday and he will be charged with leading an inexperienced backline in Argentina next month, one which may yet include Denny Solomona. Jones revealed on Sunday that the New Zealand-born wing was unlikely to be fit for the tour but Solomona is hopeful he may still take his seat on the plane, despite a foot injury.
“I’m not out of Argentina just yet, I’m doing everything in my power to make sure I make the trip,” said Solomona, who remains with Sale and will be further assessed at the end of the week. “I’ve done all the necessary steps to get back in there.”
England will be without the Harlequins outside-centre Joe Marchant and the Northampton tighthead Paul Hill – ruled out with toe and neck injuries respectively. Jones will finalise his 31-man squad for Argentina on Monday, when the replacements will be named.
Ford endured a mixed afternoon the last time he started for England without Farrell alongside him. It was 12 months ago, with Wales rather than the Baa-Baas the opposition in the end-of-season fixture, and while he pulled the strings as England scored five tries, he missed six out of seven kicks at goal and was booed by the Twickenham crowd.
“Eddie has challenged me to keep improving our attack and try to ask more questions of the opposition, and be more dangerous,” Ford said. “We definitely have good enough players to go over there and get results, regardless of who is available. It’s good sometimes to play with different people and come up with different ways of trying to break teams down.”
Jones is confident Ford can handle the added responsibility, with Farrell away in camp with the British & Irish Lions, but he believes Bath’s style of play has not suited the 24-year-old, who missed a crucial late penalty in his side’s Challenge Cup semi-final defeat by Stade Français. Last week Jones said: “Sometimes players in their clubs are asked to play in a different way and it doesn’t suit them but as long as I see effort from them … and I saw plenty of effort from George …”
Ford rejoins Leicester on a lucrative contract worth £450,000 a year next season and believes he can rediscover his best form at Welford Road alongside other big names such as Ben Youngs, Matt Toomua and Manu Tuilagi. “I suppose that chapter of my career [at Bath] is over now,” Ford said. “I’m looking forward to rejoining Leicester and hopefully being part of a team that can really challenge and win trophies again because I know that’s what the club can do and as a player that’s what you want. You want to be part of a successful team.”
Jones’s squad for the two-Test Argentina tour contains 15 uncapped players but there are 19 without Test experience preparing to face the Barbarians, with those from Exeter, Wasps and Northampton all unavailable.
It means Ford, along with Danny Care, Mike Brown and Chris Robshaw, is now one of the old guard, but it is a role he is relishing. “I’m looking to try to develop that all the time really,” he said. “As a 10, you’re more an on-field leader but I suppose especially last week and this week there’s some more off-field stuff that I’ve tried to develop and take upon myself a little bit more.”
England’s two Test matches against the Pumas have taken on added significance after the sides were drawn in the same World Cup pool, alongside France, in what on paper would appear to be the hardest of the four.
Ford is determined, therefore, to make a statement this summer. He said: “I don’t think you would want to go to Argentina thinking: ‘Let’s try our best and see what happens.’ We want to go there and win 2-0 – and we are expecting to do so regardless of who is here.”
In happier times it was the Manchester Arena where Sir Alex Ferguson and his players ended up on that sunny day, 18 years ago this week, when they brought the European Cup back to the city for the first time since the 1960s.
They reckon there were upwards of 750,000 people to welcome Manchester United back from Barcelona that day. They hung off lamp-posts and balconies and scaffolding and spires, and there has never been another homecoming quite like it on the city’s streets.
And for the 12,000 who packed inside the arena, it culminated in that moment when Ferguson came through the doors holding the trophy above his head. He was followed by his players and for a brief moment the most successful manager of his generation actually ducked because of the din. “I can’t talk,” he said. And it is difficult to think there has been any other occasion inside this venue when the volume has gone higher.
It’s a great football city, Manchester – a divided one, red and blue – and nobody should be taken in by the myth that United have forgotten where they are from. Yes, it’s become a global club, with Florida owners, a cosmopolitan team and all those camera-clicking tourists, but it is still a local one, too. The accents behind the scenes at Old Trafford, or Carrington on the other side of the M60, are still mostly Mancunian. It is still a club, just like Manchester City, with a deep affinity to its city and people.
It certainly won’t be easy for United to adhere to the mantra of the new mayor, Andy Burnham, if going about their business as normal means clearing their minds of Monday’s horrors now the club’s players, staff and management, along with thousands of supporters, have arrived in Stockholm, a city recovering from its own recent devastation, for the Europa League final.
The reminders of what happened in Sweden’s capital can still be seen in Drottninggatan, Stockholm’s main shopping street, in the huge display of thousands of different-coloured adhesive notes bearing messages of love and remembrance on the boarded-up windows of Ahlens, the department store where the hijacked lorry that careered down this street last month, killing five people and injuring many others, came to rest.
Back in Manchester, there had not even been time to choreograph those kinds of tribute as the finalists left for Sweden and José Mourinho took the sensible decision to cancel his pre-match press conference, sparing us the possibility that someone might want the club’s manager to discuss trivialities such as injury news. Football suddenly feels very secondary when, at the time Mourinho was scheduled to speak, thousands of people were gathering for a vigil outside Manchester town hall and, one by one, we were learning more about the people who had died.
By that stage, United’s players had already held their own minute’s silence, standing in a circle with their heads bowed, on the pitches at Carrington. Once they arrived in Stockholm they did visit the Friends Arena to have a look at the stadium where they will play Ajax, passing the place where a statue of Zlatan Ibrahimovic is going up and trying to fix their minds on the job in hand. But it will not be straightforward.
The statement from Mourinho explained the decision to excuse himself from media obligations because of “the effect this has had on everyone here at the club and within our city”. Another release noted that pupils from some of the schools affiliated to the Manchester United Foundation were among the audience at that Ariana Grande concert.
A lot of the players’ Twitter accounts are controlled by their own PR people. Not all of them, though. “Devastating,” was the word Wayne Rooney used. “Much rage, much pain,” David de Gea wrote.
Perhaps Mourinho will try to lift his players by encouraging them to believe they can bring the trophy back to Manchester and dedicate it to the city. Over 90 minutes, footballers tend to be pretty good at filtering out everything else and, ultimately, it is still a significant occasion in United’s recent history. Hence Mourinho’s comments that “we have a job to do and we will fly to Sweden to do that job”.
Again, though, business as normal is easier said than done right now. The mind goes back to France’s visit to Wembley in November 2015, just a few days after the Paris attacks, and the sapping effect it had on their players. They lost 2-0 and nobody should have been surprised that England’s opponents found it so difficult.
Likewise, it is no surprise the mood in Stockholm feels so different to what might usually be expected before a European final. There were plenty of United supporters in Gamla Stan, Stockholm’s old town, or drinking in the pubs and hotels near Central Station, but it was nothing like as boisterous as usual.
They came from many more places than just Manchester but all of them had an affinity with the city – and they will all understand the most emotive lines from Mourinho.
“We cannot take out of our minds and our hearts the victims and their families,” his statement read. “It is a pity we cannot fly with the happiness that we always have before a big game.”
Crystal Palace are looking for their eighth manager in seven years after Sam Allardyce shocked the chairman, Steve Parish, by tendering his resignation as he seeks a break from top-level management after a tumultuous year.
Allardyce only signed a contract through to 2019 at Selhurst Park just before Christmas having been charged with steering a struggling team into a fifth successive top-flight campaign. That was eventually guaranteed with a 14th-place finish, and eye-catching wins over Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool en route, only for the 62-year-old to quit just five months into the role and two days after the side’s last game of term.
He was due a bonus of around £2m for keeping the club in the Premier League, with Palace having eventually finished seven points clear of the cut-off, and had initially suggested he would approach the task of restructuring the squad this summer with relish. However that stance shifted over the weekend as he reflected on “the huge pressure that comes with being a football manager”. He met Parish at the club’s central London office on Tuesday and after a 26-year coaching career that has included spells at six top-flight clubs, he informed the chairman that he did not wish to remain in the post.
“In some ways this has been a very difficult decision to make, but in others it has been a simple one,” he said in a statement released on Tuesday evening. “I will always be grateful to Crystal Palace and Steve Parish for giving me the opportunity to go out with my head held high having helped keep the club in the Premier League. More than that, they gave me a chance of rebuilding my reputation after what happened with England. I felt I needed another shot at being a Premier League manager and Palace gave me the chance of rehabilitation.
“That’s why it’s hard walking away now. I think the club are heading in the right direction with a hugely supportive board of directors, a great squad of players and some of the most passionate fans I’ve ever met. It’s been a privilege to have worked here for the past five months. But there comes a time when you have to take stock of what direction you want your life to take, and that’s been the simple part for me.
“I want to be able to savour life while I’m still relatively young and when I’m still relatively healthy enough to do all the things I want to do, like travel and spend more time with my family and grandchildren without the huge pressure that comes with being a football manager. This is the right time for me. I have no ambitions to take another job. I simply want to be able to enjoy all the things you cannot really enjoy with the 24/7 demands of managing any football club, let alone one in the Premier League.”
Rewind 12 months and Allardyce had successfully salvaged Sunderland’s top-flight season before taking up the reins with England post-Euro 2016. Yet his tenure with the national team extended no further than 67 days and one match as a newspaper sting prompted his departure. He succeeded Alan Pardew at Selhurst Park in December with the team 17th after one win in 11 games and, after a difficult start and with heavy backing in the January transfer window, steered them to safety on the penultimate weekend.
Palace were understandably planning for a future under Allardyce given how well things had gone under his stewardship, and with plans well under way for a revamp of the playing squad this summer. Some senior players have already been informed they will either not be retained or are available to move, with Tuesday’s meeting in Parish’s Soho office having initially been scheduled to discuss transfer budgets and recruitment plans. Instead, while the talks were amicable, they concluded with the club searching for yet another manager.
“Steve Parish has been superb during our conversations today,” added Allardyce. “I know it came as a shock to him that I would walk away, but our discussions have been incredibly civilised with no recriminations and no fall-out. This is not about transfer targets, finances or anything along those lines. This is me taking the decision I believe is right for my family and myself. I’ve no doubt I will miss management, but I certainly have no regrets at this decision.”
The club have now been in left in a familiar state of flux, with players unsure where their futures lie – Andros Townsend took to social media on Tuesday to tweet simply “Wow” – and recruitment plans effectively on hold. Allardyce’s initial intention had been to pinpoint up to 10 new players with the intention of ensuring Palace avoided being sucked into another relegation scrap next term. One of those, Jermain Defoe, is to join Bournemouth on a three-year deal worth around £65,000-a-week and a sizeable signing-on bonus.
Palace may now seek to ascertain Marco Silva’s situation as the Portuguese prepares to depart Hull City, with Porto having expressed an interest in securing his services. The former Manchester City manager, Roberto Mancini, may also be sounded out.
The new incumbent will have to be shrewd in the market this summer with the board having spent heavily in January as they sought to edge clear of the bottom. The likes of Luka Milivojevic, Patrick van Aanholt and Jeffrey Schlupp were brought in for an outlay of around £40m, on hefty wages, with Mamadou Sakho also recruited on loan from Liverpool. While Parish had still aspired to recruit the France defender on a permanent basis, that mid-season spending could yet influence the club’s policy over the summer as they seek to comply with financial fair play regulations within the Premier League.
Some players, including the Wales international Joe Ledley, are out of contract and will leave, while the likes of Fraizer Campbell, Bakary Sako, Lee Chung-yong are all expected to depart. The futures of James McArthur and Scott Dann, who began the season as club captain, are also uncertain.
To the uninitiated, espionage and sailing do not normally go hand in hand, yet before this year’s America’s Cup gets underway later this week, holders Oracle Team USA know every tack is being watched.
“It is funny, [there are] guys on the water right now taking photos of the boat and the system on board,” says Oracle Team’s Australian grinder Ky Hurst. “Whenever we roll out the boat they are always there taking photos. They are spying on us.”
It is a sentiment echoed by Oracle Team USA helmsman and Hurst’s countryman Jimmy Spithill, who will be steering for a third consecutive Cup crown when the competition begins on Friday in Bermuda.
“The defending champions usually have a target on their back and added pressure,” says Spithill, the youngest ever America’s Cup winning skipper. “The level of reconnaissance is right up there. It is like James Bond or the CIA. We all have teams based where the other teams are, watching them all the time.”
Accusations of subterfuge might sound paranoid, but surveillance really is just part of life in the competition and the six competing teams make no apologies for keeping a close eye on one another ahead of the 35th edition of world sport’s oldest trophy.
“You try and keep tabs on what the other teams are doing. It is very commonplace to have photographers watching. It goes both ways – all teams are looking,” says SoftBank Team Japan skipper Dean Barker.
As a result teams are eager to protect their designs and intellectual property in whatever way possible. The yachts are craned out of the water before and after training and stored inside shiny cavernous sheds resembling aircraft hangers.
It is here boat builders work around the clock to make micro adjustments to the craft – based on intelligence garnered from on-water testing and simulations via computer modelling – and the tweaks made inside the hanger are done well clear of prying eyes.
“You can learn a lot from the competition,” says Spithill. “That is what it is about in this game. You can look at your competitors and not only take their lessons but improve on it.”
Gaining access to the team bases is nigh on impossible. A towering steel fence rings the perimeter. There is no admission to the general public. Journalists are accompanied by a chaperone, passing several checkpoints before reaching the boat sheds. Photography of the yachts inside these sanctuaries is strictly off limits.
Trying to shadow these breakneck flying machines on the water in a chase boat is difficult too. You can only get a fleeting glimpse bouncing along at 60 kilometres an hour in a rubber boat on Bermuda’s Great Sound. The carbon fibre monsters deploy their hydrofoils, slicing through the water, flying past in the blink of an eye. Even so there are certain angles where photography of these catamarans is forbidden – lest a frame might reveal an engineering advantage the teams want to try and disguise from the competition.
Six muscular men scurry across the yachts – the power they deploy to move the boat is obvious, they lose litres in sweat every hour – but the systems on board that optimise performance aren’t as easy to spy for the untrained eye. Oracle Team USA’s tactician Tom Slingsby, another Australian, says the cutting-edge engineering is what really maximises a boat’s speed.
“Being the pinnacle of the sport, every day we are doing amazing things out there with technology,” he says.
The first Japanese entry in search of the Auld Mug in 17 years, SoftBank Team Japan, believe their technological expertise has made them competitive quickly. Systems and science are arguably more important than crew experience for Asia’s sole entrant.
“In the future I want to combine all the technology and knowledge from Japan to challenge for the America’s Cup – that is my dream,” says sailor Kazuhiko Sofuku at the team base.
The technology and innovation driving the renewed interest and swell in competition doesn’t come cheaply. Tech tycoons and billionaire bankers passionately prop up their syndicates’ ambitions. “There are millions of dollars in campaigns and egos,” says Slingsby.
Just how much investment goes in to funding an America’s Cup campaign is another closely guarded secret. While the regatta’s foundational document the Deed of Gift looks to make competing in the race more transparent, the costs are still prohibitive for many.
“You look at Nascar. They are at $20m per car, per year, and most of the teams have three or four cars, so budgets are well over $100m. We are well under that, but look at what we do. Plus from an athlete point of view I will put our athletes up against anyone,” says Spithill.
“It is not the old suits walking into fancy yacht clubs. The athletes we have on our boats can match it with any athlete in the world I can assure you.”
This new era of racing represents a sport in convergence and it isn’t just the newly bulked up, gym-honed athletic sailors that reflect the changing face of the sport. Race partners from the world of luxury like Louis Vuitton and Panerai, long aligned to maritime pursuits, are now joined by Red Bull – a brand that traditionally outlays most of its marketing spend on car racing and extreme sports. It is evidence of the high octane, risk-riddled formula seeking to entice and cash in on a new audience.
“You look at any sport now, weather it is X Games or auto racing. You watch it because it isn’t easy and there is real consequence and that is exactly our game. We don’t have seat belts, there is no safety,” says Spithill. “I think now the sport works commercially on TV. The valuations are there now.”
And like with most sports it is often the winning team that captures the most fans and eyeballs – and in turn the biggest sponsorship war chest – so the crews aren’t going to let their guard down, or stop keeping tabs on their competition any time soon.
It’s August 2020 and the Tokyo Olympics have just finished. Once again, the USA and Team GB top the medal table. But the real story is the collapse of the once-great Australian team who only have one shooting gold to show for their efforts. Humiliated, they board the plane back home where a festival of national self-flagellation awaits.
A bit over the top? Maybe, but this was the reality for Great Britain’s team back in 1996 when they took home only one gold (in rowing), prompting a decision to use the proceeds of the newly begun national lottery to fund elite sport.
The medals – along with national pride – have flowed ever since. And, in a profound form of flattery not lost on sports fans back in the old country, the Australian government is now considering a similar scheme to boost the country’s flagging Olympic performance.
It’s easy to see why. Britain finished 36th in the medal table at Atlanta but, 20 years later, they were second in Rio with a haul of 70 medals as millions lavished on the high-performance athletes paid dividends. Aside from the odd great athlete such as Sebastian Coe and Daley Thompson, Brits – and I’m one – had in the past been mostly reduced to celebrating the odd plucky showing in the obscure reaches of Olympic endeavour. These days Team GB win golds in super-competitive sports like gymnastics, something quite unthinkable 20 years ago when not even a committed sports fan could have named a single British gymnast.
Australia, by contrast, has sunk from fourth in the Sydney games in 2000 to 10th in Rio and it is this decline that was the elephant in the room as sports minister Greg Hunt launched the national sports plan on Monday.
Aiming to promote “participation, performance, health and integrity”, he said the plan would “consider, with a strong bias towards support, a national sports lottery. There are great examples around the world, most notably the UK, of funding on a secure basis coming from a national sports lottery”. Tellingly, the chief executive of the Australian Olympic Committee, Matt Carroll, said the initiative was “critical” for Australia’s sporting future and to achieve the collective sporting outcomes.
In a country which already has a gambling problem, the plan will be controversial. Critics will say that people who already spend too much money on gambling should not be tempted into parting with even more in order to fund elite sportsmen and women. What’s more, it’s a tax on the poor and it allows the government to sub-contract funding it should be looking after.
But while the Olympic factor has played very hard in the UK, there’s more to the national lottery than cycling golds. Hunt was keen to make the point on Monday that any lottery would be a “public-good lottery” on the model of the UK, with money raised from tickets going to good causes all over the land. The UK’s defining arts projects of the last 20 years – think the Tate Modern or the Angel of the North – would not have been possible without lottery money. And they’re just the marquee projects. Millions more have gone into cherished local projects such as building community centres and youth development schemes that don’t make national headlines.
Australian arts and culture could therefore be a huge beneficiary of a public-good lottery. Consider these figures from the UK. Ticket sales raised nearly £2bn for projects in the year 31 March 2016, a sum which was shared out as follows: 40% to health, education, environment and charitable causes; 20% for sport; 20% for arts; and 20% to heritage.
It might encourage more gambling – no question. But surely it’s better that some of the money flows into worthwhile projects rather than into the hands of pub owners and James Packer. In addition there will be plenty of people who are not problem gamblers who will buy the odd weekly ticket or join the office syndicate and therefore contribute to good causes – and maybe even a few Olympic golds in years to come.
The NFL is the No Fun League no longer.
Commissioner Roger Goodell announced on Tuesday the league will relax rules on celebrations, permitting spontaneous moments after touchdowns and big plays which previously led to penalties and fines.
Examples of celebrations permitted under the new guidelines include using the football as a prop after a touchdown, group demonstrations and celebrating on the ground (like snow angels, for instance).
“Today, we are excited to tell you about another change that comes after conversations with more than 80 current and former players: we are relaxing our rules on celebrations to allow players more room to have fun after they make big plays,” Goodell said in an online letter to fans, which also contained gifs of permissible celebrations – no doubt to show middle-aged league executives’ effortless rapport with youth culture.
“We know that you love the spontaneous displays of emotion that come after a spectacular touchdown. And players have told us they want more freedom to be able to express themselves and celebrate their athletic achievements.”
Goodell added that “offensive demonstrations” or celebrations that delay the game or are directed at an opponent will still be penalized in an effort to promote “sportsmanship, clean competition, and setting good examples for young athletes” – language that should put Randy Moss and Hingle McCringleberry on alert.
Jermain Defoe is set to join Bournemouth from Sunderland as a free agent on a three-year deal that will pay him £20m – including the signing-on fee. The 34-year-old striker, capped 56 times by England, has exercised a relegation-release clause in his Sunderland contract and he will return to the club for whom he played at the beginning of his career.
Defoe was an 18-year-old when he turned out for Bournemouth in 2000-01, on loan from West Ham United, and he scored 19 goals in 31 appearances for them. He played alongside Eddie Howe and Jason Tindall, who are now the Bournemouth manager and assistant manager respectively, and he has always spoken fondly of his time at the south coast club.
Defoe joined Sunderland in January 2015 after a spell at Toronto FC and he was persuaded in the summer of last year by Sam Allardyce, the club’s manager at the time, to extend his contract. He agreed to do so on the condition that he would be allowed to leave for free in the event of relegation.
Allardyce was promptly tempted away by the England job and he was replaced by David Moyes, under whom Defoe became increasingly frustrated. Defoe scored 15 times in the Premier League last season but it was not enough to save Sunderland from relegation. Moyes resigned on Monday.
Defoe’s form saw him win an England recall in March and he scored in the World Cup qualifying win over Lithuania – his 20th goal for his country.
Defoe has been teetotal throughout his career and with the massive contract on offer at Bournemouth, he might reflect on the benefits of having kept himself in peak condition. Watford and Crystal Palace had been among the clubs to show an interest in Defoe but Bournemouth have jumped to the front of the queue.
Real Madrid have reached a deal with the Brazilian side Flamengo to sign forward Vinícius Júnior in July 2018, the Spanish champions announced on Tuesday. Vinícius has just one senior appearance for Flamengo, making his professional debut just 10 days ago in a league game against Atlético Mineiro.
The deal for the 16-year-old is worth €46m (£39.6m), which would make him the second most expensive signing from the Brazilian league in history. The most costly is Barcelona’s Neymar, who moved from Santos in 2013 for an estimated €86m, a player Vinícius has been likened to. Barça were also interested in Vinícius but were unsuccessful in their attempt to sign him.
Vinícius only signed a new contract with Flamengo last week, which extended his deal through to July 2019 and raised his buyout clause from €30m to €46m.
Madrid explained in a statement that they will own the rights to the Brazilian from July 2018, when he turns 18, but he will remain at Flamengo until July 2019 unless both sides agree otherwise.
The teenager has made 22 appearances for the Brazil Under-17s, scoring 19 goals, and was the best performer at the South American Under-17 Championship, at which his Brazil side were crowned champions and he was the leading goalscorer with seven goals.
Real described Vinícius on their website as “one of the brightest young talents in world football, a skilful, pacy attacker who is able to go past players and has an eye for goal”.
Cortez Kennedy, the Hall of Fame defensive tackle who played his entire career with the Seattle Seahawks, has died at the age of 48. Orlando Police said they are investigating his death but it is not thought to be suspicious.
Kennedy was the third overall pick in the 1990 draft and more than fulfilled his potential on a Seattle team that was far from the power it is today. At 6ft 3in and just over 300lbs, he was part of an talented defensive line that also included Michael McCrary, Michael Sinclair and Sam Adams.
Kennedy was named NFL defensive player of the year in 1992, and made eight Pro Bowls. He retired in 2000 and was voted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2012.
“Cortez will be remembered not only for all his great achievements on the football field but how he handled himself off the field,” said Hall of Fame president David Baker on Wednesday. “He epitomized the many great values this game teaches which serves as inspiration to millions of fans. Although he left this earth far too soon, the Hall of Fame pledges to keep his legacy alive forever in Canton.”
Following his retirement Kennedy, known for his good humor and positive attitude, worked as an advisor for the New Orleans Saints, and also invested in small businesses.
The Italian businessman Andrea Radrizzani has taken full control of Leeds after buying the remaining 50% of shares held by the co-owner Massimo Cellino.
Radrizzani, 42, bought a 50% stake in the Championship club through his company, Aser Group Holding, in January and it has been widely reported he had the option of completing a 100% takeover at the end of the season if Leeds failed to win promotion.
Radrizzani, who has also becomes chairman with immediate effect, told the club’s official website: “I am delighted to have the opportunity to become a custodian of this great football club.
“The heritage and history of Leeds United attracted me to the club and having spent time at games and at Thorp Arch [training ground], I can see that we are ready to move forward to the next level.
“This is a long-term commitment, there is a lot of hard work ahead of us and I am aware of my responsibilities as owner of Leeds United. I can assure all supporters that everyone at this club will be doing all we can to build a successful team at Elland Road.”
Marco Silva spent Tuesday in his native Portugal holding talks with Porto and is understood to have reached an agreement to become the club’s new manager.
The Hull City head coach is scheduled to return to meet the club’s owners, the Allam family, on Wednesday but it seems he will be bidding them farewell before joining Porto later this week.
It was expected those impending discussions with Hull would conclude with Silva ending his five-month tenure in charge of the relegated club. The 39-year-old signed only a short-term contract when he succeeded Mike Phelan at the KCom Stadium in January but that agreement contained a clause which facilitated the potential triggering of a one-year extension. Although Silva has enjoyed a strong relationship with Ehab Allam, Hull’s vice-chairman and the man effectively in charge of the club, the coach who nearly rescued the team from relegation did not want to drop into the Championship.
The former Estoril, Sporting Lisbon and Olympiakos manager had indicated he would prefer to remain in the Premier League. If he was always a little cool about Watford’s interest in hiring him as Walter Mazzarri’s replacement, Southampton looked a more enticing prospect for the man dubbed “the new José Mourinho”.
Saints are still to part with Claude Puel and there are suggestions Silva may not be at the top of their list if they were to replace the Frenchman. Moreover, Porto have the added attraction of being able to offer Champions League football.
Aware the man they tried to recruit when he left Sporting in 2015 was effectively out of contract at Hull and attracting considerable attention in England, Porto sacked Nuno Espírito Santo on Monday night. He had survived only one season, with a second-placed finish in the Primeira Liga deemed an insufficient return.
Silva displayed similar hard-headedness last Sunday after Hull supporters constantly sang his name, appealing for him to stay on, throughout the season’s closing fixture, a 7-1 defeat to Tottenham. “I need to think and see what is the best solution, not only for the club, but for me as a coach and for my career,” he said. “It was amazing for me and, if I just looked at the connection between me and the fans, of course it would be impossible to say no. But I have to look at other things as well. I am sure that next Wednesday we will decide.”
Having worked with Steve Bruce, Phelan and Silva in the space of a single year, Allam, who has suggested his family intend to fund a promotion challenge next season, must recruit yet another new manager. With five of Silva’s January signings having arrived on loan and other players also set to leave, the next one faces a major rebuilding job.
Ahmed Elmohamady, the Hull right-back and wing-back, looks set for a reunion with Bruce at Aston Villa. The Egypt international played under Bruce at Hull and Sunderland.
Back in 2015, The Fiver journeyed to the exclusive Spanish coastal town of San Sebastián in order to meet up with our long-lost cousin Juan de la Juan de la Juan de la Juan Straw Donkey Nylon Stringed Guitar Olé Olé Olé Eldorado Tiki Taka Pintxo Sun Sea Sand Dust Fiver. What with Juan being Hungarian, neither of us could speak the language, so we sat on the streets drinking bottle after bottle of the refreshing Basque cider until we were moved on, arrested and deported. Those 13 minutes were among the best of The Fiver’s life, as we watched the world go by, catching a glimpse of how the other half live. Look! There’s David Moyes, resident at the Maria Cristina, perhaps the most glamorous hotel in the whole of Spain! See how the Real Sociedad manager swans down its grand staircase, fleet of foot like Gene Kelly, a relaxed smile playing across his tanned, radiant, content face! He really is enjoying the high lif … oy! Officer! Get your hands off! Hagyjon engem békén!
Two years is an awfully long time, though, isn’t it. Moyes has long since left Sociedad, moving on to endure a soul-destroying spell at Sunderland, having agreed to take a job absolutely everyone else in the entire world knew would end in utter humiliation, lessons from the recent past possibly not fully learned. On Monday that time as Black Cats boss came to an abrupt but predictable end, as he negotiated a 0p severance package at a London hotel and conference centre not quite as salubrious as his old pile on the Bay of Biscay. Agreeing to chip off without a single bronze centime of compo clawed back a little goodwill lost in the wake of one of the most negative campaigns in the history of All Football, the creepy Slapgate incident, and the craven genuflection to Chelsea’s No26 last Sunday. But it’s still a miserable denouement, and Moyes trudged out of the hotel accordingly, leaden of foot, a black cloud hovering over his head as he circumvented The Fiver and Juan, who were enjoying 40 winks on the steps after a few restorative cans of … oy! Officer! That’s our budget cider! Hagyjon engem békén!
That’s the end of that, you’d have thought. And in the case of Juan, packed off back to Budapest with a flea in his ear yet again, it is. But it would seem despite Moyes’ resignation, his work at Sunderland is not yet complete. Hasn’t he done enough already, one may reasonably ask. But no! It would appear he’ll be playing a part in choosing his successor, on account of remaining good pals with owner Ellis Short and managing director Martin Bain. Manchester United fans in particular might spot a problem with this plan, but this is apparently how it’s going to work. Moyes, Short and Bain have drawn up a list including Ryan Giggs, Alan Pardew, Nigel Pearson, Garry Monk and Paul Lambert. The usual suspects, in other words. It’s only a surprise that Alan Curbishley, Bryan Robson, Peter Reid and Mick McCarthy aren’t on it. At least Moyes has resisted the temptation to recommend Lord Ferg for an impossible job guaranteed to end in tears, just to see how he likes it. But otherwise the prospects for the future are enough to turn a Sunderland fan to drink. We would offer, but the local bobby confiscated our stash.
“We can’t take out of our minds and hearts the victims and their families. I know, even during my short time here, that the people of Manchester will pull together as one” – José Mourinho joins tributes to victims of the Manchester Arena atrocity.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here.
AC Jimbo is off watching muscly men, so Max Rushden is in the hot seat for the latest Football Weekly podcast. Listen now.
The animated story of the Premier League season that was.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“David Moyes delays resigning to miss The Fiver’s deadline. I expect Tuesday’s offering to be mediocre, rarely entertaining and containing an overwhelming air of pessimism. With or without a tribute to Moyes” – Darren Leathley.
“Re: the photo of sad Watford fan with time-consuming homemade poster, asking Walter Mazzarri to stay on the coach (yesterday’s Bits and Bobs). When did middle-low-ranking clubs like them (I’m being generous here) start to think that a stress-free, middle-low finish in the Premier League was a bad thing? I can’t help thinking that their ungratefulness will come back to haunt them, Pardew-at-Newcastle-style? I should know about these things as I’m a Leicester fan” – Jim Smith.
“Working on the premise that Dollar are twice as good as 50 Cent and tenor Placido Domingo is 26 times as great (Fiver letters passim), then Lionel Ritchie must be 39 times as great because, as every c0ckney knows, a Lady Godiva is a fiver … and a Commodore is once, twice, three times a lady” – Nathan Eaton.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Jim Smith.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
A glorious own goal from 40 yards out by Chelsea’s Fikayo Tomori denied England three points against Guinea in a 1-1 group-stage draw at the U-20 World Cup.
Antoine Griezmann says there is a six-out-of-10 chance of him joining Manchester United, and a mathematically confusing seven-out-of-10 chance of staying put. “Today, if I have to move, it will not be a problem for me,” he later added. “It may be England, which is in fashion, Germany, China or the [USA! USA!! USA!!!], I’m ready to go.”
Harry Kewell has been appointed as the flamin’ manager of Crawley Town. “During his interview Harry showed us great passion,” honked Crawley’s Selim Gaygusuz.
Gaël Clichy is set to follow Pablo Zabaleta out of the Manchester City exit door for over-30s full-backs. “I won’t be here next season,” he sniffed.
And surgery to repair nose-knack has ruled Germany’s Leroy Sané out of this summer’s Confederations Cup. “I have decided, after a conversation with my doctor, to use the summer break for this operation, so I can start the new season without any discomfort,” he snuffled.
Here’s Simon Burnton with his gripes of the Premier League season, including thrilling player tweets being read out on Match of the Day such as: “Yet another victory: it was well worth the effort.”
What would Jacob Steinberg change next season in the Premier League? Well, he’d make managers accountable for cynical tactics for a start.
Here’s your Premier League referee of the season contenders blog. Yup, Paul Doyle drew the short straw.
Wilfried Bony was deemed just about relevant enough to make an appearance in this flops of the season blog. Po’ Wilfried.
Like football? Like pictures? Get your peepers pointed at The Dozen’s dozen then.
Paul Wilson lavishes praise on Manchester United’s feisty Spanish schemer, Ander Herrera, who is no longer too nice – and that bodes well for their Big Vase hopes.
And have a go at Paul Campbell’s big Premier League 2016-17 quiz and then curse yourself for not watching all 380 games this season.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
Sunweb’s Tom Dumoulin has retained the pink jersey, albeit with a significantly reduced advantage, after an extraordinary and controversial stage 16 of the Giro d’Italia, eventually won by the home rider Vincenzo Nibali.
Dumoulin was left by the Movistar team after their riders joined in an attack while the pink jersey holder briefly left the course and made for a roadside ditch for a comfort break. The incident left observers debating whether riders failed to observe the sport’s “unwritten rules”, as competitors would traditionally not attack the overall leader in such circumstances.
Following Monday’s rest day the 222km stage from Rovetta and Bormio, taking in a double ascent of the Stelvio, offered stunning scenery but gruelling riding. After his break 33km from the finish, caused by what was described as “stomach problems” by his team, Dumoulin struggled up the Umbrail Pass, the third major climb of the stage. Yet with his overall lead over Movistar’s Nairo Quintana threatening to evaporate completely, he rallied to claw back time. He now leads the Colombian by 31sec, down from 2min 41sec when the day began.
The Dutchman told Eurosport: “I just had some problems and needed a dump, I could not hold it any more. It was after the first time on Stelvio, I started to feel it in the downhill and I just had to stop, it was not possible to continue any more.”
He felt he should have been given an opportunity to close back on the peleton once he was able to continue after his unplanned toilet stop.
Dumoulin added: “I decided to fight and fight, and then take conclusions after the finish, that is what I did, and I think that is good but I am very disappointment with the day, of course. I was with the strongest today. I could have easily been with Nibali and Quintana, I just lost it because I had a problem. That’s shit.”
After a two-man sprint the stage was won by Bahrain-Merida’s Nibali, who started the day fourth in the GC, by less than a wheel from Team Sky’s Mikel Landa, with Quintana 12sec back. Nibali, with Italy’s first success of the 2017 race, moved into third overall, 1min 12sec off the lead. Landa took over as King of the Mountains.
Of his victory, Nibali said: “I didn’t think about being the first Italian to win a stage; what counted was having a strong team, making a big effort and staying up there. I am closer now but Dumoulin has the advantage of the time trial in Milan.”
Earlier in the Queen stage, Astana’s Luis León Sánchez was first over the opening climb of the day on the Passo del Mortirolo, appearing to be allowed to take the 1,764m category 1 climb which was named in honour of his team-mate Michele Scarponi following his death last month in a training accident. Britain’s Adam Yates, riding for Orica, sits 10th in the general classification.
Wednesday’s 17th stage will run over 219km from Tirano to Canazei.
When you've gotta go... you've gotta go... Natural break woe for Tom Dumoulin in stage 16 of the #Giro100 pic.twitter.com/IPP7AJQP15
1 Vincenzo Nibali (Bahrain-Merida) 6hr 24min 22sec 2 Mikel Landa (Team Sky) ST 3 Nairo Quintana (Movistar) +12sec 4 Domenico Pozzovivo (AG2R) +24sec 5 Ilnur Zakarin (Katusha) +34sec 6 Davide Formolo (Cannondale) +1min 26sec 7 Bauke Mollema (Trek) +1:35 8 Bob Jungels (Quick-Step) 9 Adam Yates (Orica) +1:35 10 Thibaut Pinot (FDJ) +1:35
1 Tom Dumoulin (Sunweb) 70hr 14min 48sec 2 Nairo Quintana (Movistar) +31sec 3 Vincenzo Nibali (Bahrain) +1:12 4 Thibaut Pinot (FDJ) +2:38 5 Ilnur Zakarin (Katusha) +2:40 6 Domenico Pozzovivo (AG2R) +3:05 7 Bauke Mollema (Trek) +3:49 8 Bob Jungels (Quick-Step) +4:35 9 Steven Kruijswijk (LottoNL) +6:20 10 Adam Yates (Orica) +7:00
Antoine Griezmann has said there is a six out of 10 chance of him joining Manchester United this summer. The Atlético Madrid forward has been consistently linked with a move to Old Trafford in recent months and it now seems there could be some substance to speculation about an £85m move.
The 26-year-old made the admission as a guest on the French TV programme Quotidien. When asked about the plausibility of a move to United, Griezmann agreed it was “possible”. When pressed further and asked the probability on a scale of one to 10, Griezmann said: “Six.” He was then asked if he understood what he was saying, and replied: “Yes.”
It may also not be long before a decision is made on the France international’s future. “I should know more in the next two weeks,” he said.
Reports have claimed Griezmann, who scored 26 goals for Atlético last season, could cost United up to £85m. But he went a step further on Tuesday when speaking to L’Equipe.
“Today, if I have to move, it will not be a problem for me,” said Griezmann. “It may be England, which is in fashion, Germany, China or the United States, I’m ready to go. We finished third in La Liga, it was the objective of the club, but we, the players, want more. Winning titles is what I will look for this summer when deciding on my future.”
At a certain point while talking to Sachin Tendulkar, in a room overlooking the Oval cricket ground, I begin to understand what it might have felt like to bowl at a batsman so sublime he managed to put into doubt Don Bradman’s title of “greatest ever”. It happens after I ask the question to which I most want the answer, as a devotee of cricket: can he select, from all the bowlers he faced, the five-man bowling attack that would have given him, in his prime, the greatest difficulty?
“There are so many great bowlers that I’ve played,” he says in his softly spoken, unhurried manner. “You start from the first series [that I played]. You have Imran Khan, Wasim [Akram], Waqar [Younis], Abdul Qadir. Four really great bowlers. Second series I go to New Zealand and you have Richard Hadlee. Third series, I played in England where Angus Fraser really bowled well. Devon Malcolm was good. Eddie Hemmings bowled well at Old Trafford.”
Oh God, I think to myself. He’s going to name every bowler that performed well in every single Test series – no, every Test match – he played. He doesn’t quite do that, but he proceeds through his first Australia series, his first South Africa series. He moves on to consider the impossibility of choosing between a Warne, a Muralitharan and a Saqlain. Or a Walsh and an Ambrose. Aware of time marching on, I try to ask another question, since I’m obviously not getting a response to this one. He proceeds placidly, speaking over my attempts to change the subject. “What I’ve never liked is comparing players. I’ve always believed in respecting every individual for what they have achieved in life, for the challenges that they’ve met with, the disciplined life they’ve led. Quite a few guys have their own lifestyles.” Lifestyles? How did we get here? “You can’t compare a West Indian lifestyle to an Australian lifestyle, but in their own ways they’ve worked really hard to get to where they’ve made it. You just need to respect that.” When he finally stops speaking two minutes have elapsed, I’ve got nothing that I wanted from the answer, and he has managed to sound very gracious about a wide range of bowlers without acknowledging that some of them – such as Jimmy Anderson, Glenn McGrath and Allan Donald – really did challenge his authority.
Half of me is frustrated, half of me wants to stand up and applaud. That, I realise, must be what it felt like to bowl to Sachin Tendulkar at his best.
But what it might feel like to be Sachin Tendulkar is something I have a harder time imagining and I haven’t come anywhere near the answer while reading his autobiography, Playing It My Way, or while talking to him in this room, with its cricket honours boards and its view of the pitch where Tendulkar reached 91 runs in front of a full house in 2011 before he was out, chasing his 100th 100 in international cricket – the following year he became the first and as yet only man to achieve this distinction. What it might feel like to be him is something that I wonder about precisely because no one in cricket has ever been like Sachin Tendulkar, and no one ever will. This is not just a question of his talent or longevity (both of which are truly remarkable but not unmatchable), it is also about India’s history. When Tendulkar played his first Test, in 1989, India was a closed economy. Three years later, it opened to the global market. Globalisation brought in international sponsorship, market power, satellite channels that broadcast every cricket match and gave airtime to experts who could dissect each aspect of the game – later, social media gave the non-experts platforms to do the same.
Cricket was already a national passion in India, but now the means of expressing and consuming that passion were magnified to an extraordinary degree. Globalisation also brought about, as it has done in so many countries, a surge in nationalism. And Tendulkar – who started his international career, by his own admission, “all at sea” against a fearsome Pakistani bowling attack, but rapidly went on to be a batsman who could demolish any opposition – became the ultimate symbol of this increasingly confident, powerful India. By the time he retired in 2013, at the age of 40, his nickname – more accurately, his title – among his devotees was “God”.
The forthcoming film Sachin: A Billion Dreams, which he is promoting in London the morning after picking up the Asian Fellowship award at the Asian awards, charts something of this parallel journey of man and nation. I hear this from the producer who is sitting in on the interview. Tendulkar hasn’t raised the issue at all when discussing the film, which he says he wanted to make so that his fans could learn about the story of his early days, and the next generation could be inspired by it. Once he became a Test player “everything was captured. It was live action in front of the whole world with no retakes, so they [the fans] know everything about that, but not many guys know my childhood, the challenges and struggles I went through.”
This is all fine and good but less interesting than the story of Tendulkar and India and their intertwined trajectories – particularly as the struggles he talks about don’t seem to involve much beyond the difficulty of getting on to a crowded Mumbai bus with a kit bag. I ask him about the significance of playing for India as opposed to playing for a county or Indian Premier League team, but he doesn’t want to privilege one team over another. “I respected cricket. It really didn’t matter where I played, I always gave my best.”
He has written in his autobiography about how meaningful it was to play for the national team, so I know he’s deflecting the question, but I also believe him completely when he speaks about his respect for the game. It makes me want to hear him talk about match-fixing in cricket – a huge scandal that blighted the sport, and smeared the Indian team – although never him personally – while he was playing. He barely mentions it in his autobiography, which is an extraordinary omission, but he does discuss it in the film. I know this from a two-minute preview, which is all I have been allowed to see.
Why the omission and why the decision to now speak about it? He tells me that we can talk about that after I have seen the film. He can’t give away everything that’s in there, but after it is released and I have watched it, “I’ll take your question – for sure.”
I ask him about all the injuries he suffered during his career, and whether he ever thought he might not recover and return to the game. Yes, he says, when he had surgery for tennis elbow and couldn’t even lift his son’s bat, “which was a plastic bat”. How did that feel? “Oh, terrible. I could not sleep at night. I would call my close friends and ask them to join me on long drives.” There is genuine desolation in his voice, and from all the sentences he has said that washed over me and disappeared these images stand out – the Titan unable to lift a plastic bat who spends his nights driving through the streets of Mumbai, unable to sleep, unwilling to be alone.
It also raises the question of what life is like in retirement – admittedly, retiring at 40 on your own terms is a very different matter to being forced out of the game due to injury at 32. But even so, here is a man whose life from the age of 16 until 40 was dominated by cricket. In fact, he was only 11 when he started to play, and was quickly singled out by his coach as someone who deserved particular attention; even though his father was a poet and professor and, as Tendulkar says, in those days people would laugh at the suggestion that sports rather than studies were a route to a career, something convinced his parents to set aside conventional thinking.
When he was 12, he moved from his parents’ home to his uncle and aunt’s house because it was much closer to both his school and the cricket ground where several days a week he played a practice match in the early afternoon followed by individual training until 7.30pm. His parents visited him at his aunt and uncle’s after their work days were done.
The idea that his cricket was something that everyone – including Tendulkar – had to order their lives around carried on well into adulthood. In the film preview we hear his wife say: “Cricket came first and we came second – and we understood that.” So, four years in, how does retirement sit with a man whose life was so dominated by cricket for so long?
“Very good. I’m enjoying it.”
It is easily the shortest answer he has given me.
Does he still play the sport at all? “I haven’t played for quite some time. But that doesn’t mean I will not in the coming future.”
I remind him of an interview with the cricket writer Sambit Bal some years ago, when Bal mentioned the criticism Tendulkar received for not using his huge influence to talk about important issues. At the time, Tendulkar’s response was that he was focusing on cricket. But what is his view on his role in India now that he is no longer playing and, since 2012, has held one of the 12 nominated seats in the upper house of the Indian parliament. Although the position is conferred as an honour, there is an expectation that the nominated MPs will play a role in parliamentary discussions, and one of the few areas of his life for which Tendulkar has been publicly criticised is his very poor attendance record at the upper house.
“I should talk on the issues which I feel comfortable with. If you go around speaking to 25 guys, all 25 guys will have different suggestions [about what you should do], so in the end it eventually boils down to what I want to do in life.” And what does he want to do in life? “I’m doing that. I’m doing what I feel, and I have always done that for the last 25 years, and people have liked me for that. So, I’m not changing. People might change, but I’m not changing. I’m following the same path.”
The truth is, he isn’t following the same path – for the first time since pre-adolescence. After his retirement there was the autobiography, then the film – both projects that allowed him to inhabit the role of the great batsman. But what next? Already in India the question being asked is whether Virat Kohli, current Indian cricket megastar, is on route to eclipsing Tendulkar’s career. If the limelight was exacting, being half a step away from it is cruel.
But in thinking that, I’m assuming he needs the limelight – the truth is, I have no idea who he is and what he needs. Given how intensely he has been scrutinised for a quarter of a century, his ability to keep his private self private seems almost more of a miracle than the compact brilliance of his playing style.
Sachin: A Billion Dreams is released on 26 May.
The former Barcelona president Sandro Rosell and his wife have been detained in connection with his businesses in Brazil. The detentions were part of a money-laundering investigation related to buying television rights for past matches of Brazil’s national team. Three other people were detained but their identities were not immediately released by authorities.
Police raided offices, homes and businesses in Barcelona and other locations in Spain as part of Operation Rimet, a reference to former Fifa president Jules Rimet, who also gave his name to the World Cup trophy from 1930 to 1970.
Authorities said the operation looked into the alleged illegal payments received by Rosell and other people involved in promoting Brazil’s games. Authorities said nearly €15m (£13m) could have been laundered through tax havens.
Officials said the operation used information from the FBI following the US case against high-level Fifa officials in 2015.
Rosell, a former Nike executive in Brazil, had close connections to the former president of the Brazilian football confederation, Ricardo Teixeira, who was mentioned in the indictment by American officials.
Teixeira was also being investigated by Spanish authorities and raids were also expected in Brazil. Teixeira resigned from the Brazilian confederation in 2012 citing medical reasons amid widespread allegations of corruption and irregularities in his administration. He denied wrongdoing in all cases.
In the 1990s, Rosell negotiated several deals with Teixeira involving Brazil’s national team and Nike, which remains the sportswear company used by the Brazil team.
Several years ago, Rosell was formally accused by Brazilian authorities of using one of his companies to illegally benefit from a friendly between Brazil and Portugal in 2008. Rosell was cleared of any wrongdoing at the time.
In a separate case in Spain, Rosell is to stand trial for fraud and corruption charges involving the transfer of Neymar from Brazilian club Santos in 2013. Prosecutors said the real amount of the transfer fee was concealed to benefit some of those involved. Neymar and his father, who have both denied any wrongdoing, will also stand trial.
Rosell resigned as the Barcelona president in 2014 because of the allegations related to Neymar’s transfer. He had taken over the club in 2010. He and his wife were detained at their home in Barcelona during one of the police raids. They stayed at the location while authorities executed search warrants. Another home owned by Rosell was also searched by police.
Their lawyers could not be immediately reached for comment.
José Mourinho has expressed his sadness over the bombing at the Manchester Arena, saying he and Manchester United have the victims and their families in “our minds and hearts” as they prepare for the Europa League final against Ajax on Wednesday night.
Twenty-two people are known to have died and at least 59 were injured. The attack occurred on Monday evening in the foyer of the venue following an Ariana Grande concert which was attended by a large number of children and parents.
The club cancelled their pre-final press conference at the Friends Arena as a mark of respect and Mourinho offered his condolences before the squad flew to the Swedish capital.
“We’re all very sad about the tragic events,” the United manager said. “We can’t take out of our minds and hearts the victims and their families. I know, even during my short time here, that the people of Manchester will pull together as one. We have a job to do and will fly to Sweden to do that job. It’s a pity we cannot fly with the happiness we always have before a big game.”
United have also cancelled an event for staff to watch the match on Wednesday at a Manchester warehouse for the same reason. In a letter written to them by Ed Woodward, the executive vice-chairman said: “Our thoughts go out to the victims and families affected. These senseless acts are designed to shake the confidence of people and to turn communities on each other. Members of our family of fans and our home community have been affected and we will be reaching out to provide the support of the club in what must be an unimaginably difficult time.”
The team held a minute’s silence at the club’s Carrington training base on Tuesday morning and many players offered messages of support. Wayne Rooney, the captain, said: “Devastating news this morning. Thoughts and prayers are with all those affected.” The midfielder Michael Carrick added: “My thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected by the sickening attack that happened here in Manchester last night.”
Earlier the club had issued a statement. “Everyone at Manchester United is deeply shocked,” it read. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to all those affected, including our supporters, club staff and members of our community such as the children from our Manchester United Foundation partner schools who were attending the concert at the Arena.“Club staff are ready to help the police and other emergency services in any way that may be required at this challenging time for our city. Old Trafford’s Megastore, Museum, Red Cafe and Stadium Tour are all closed to the public today.”
The Ajax manager, Peter Bosz, said: “What happened yesterday evening in Manchester is something we all feel in Ajax and on behalf of us all we express our sympathies with the victims. The feeling that prevails is that the final does not have the glow it should have. Tomorrow should be a football feast but because of the events in Manchester, we are affected. It is horrible. My sympathies are heartfelt.”
The Etihad Stadium is being used as a support centre to assist those affected by the bombing. Manchester City said in a statement: “The thoughts and prayers of our ownership, board and everyone at Manchester City are with the people of Manchester and all those affected following the horrifying events.
“We have offered our full support throughout the night and this morning to the leaders of the city of Manchester itself and to the emergency services who are doing so much to support our city in these most challenging of circumstances.”
Bolton Wanderers paid tribute to Georgina Callander, the first named victim of the attack, who used to play for the club’s under-11 team. “Our thoughts and prayers are with her friends and family during this awful time of loss,” the club said. “Georgina and all will be remembered at our annual memorial service on Tuesday night. There will also be a minute’s silence before the first-team ladies’ friendly against Wigan Athletic at Macron Stadium, where the team will wear black armbands.”
Last month five people died in Stockholm when a hijacked truck was driven into crowds on a shopping street. Uefa, European football’s governing body, said there was no specific intelligence to suggest any of the Europa League final activities in the city may be the target of attacks. “Uefa has been closely working with local authorities and the Swedish FA for many months and the terrorist risk had been taken into account since the very beginning of the project,” it added.
“Furthermore, a number of additional security measures were implemented following the attacks in Stockholm last April. Due to the tight security arrangements, Uefa urges fans to arrive at the stadium as early as possible, as detailed checks will be made at the entrances, resulting in potential delays in accessing the stadium.”
Uefa also confirmed that there would be a minute’s silence before the final and the opening ceremony “considerably reduced as a mark of respect for the victims of the Manchester attack”.
The Uefa president, Aleksander Ceferin, said: “I am deeply saddened by the horrible terrorist attack in Manchester. It shocks me so many innocent people lost their lives and I would like to send my condolences to the families of those affected.”
Scotland Yard has said extra armed police officers will be deployed at Wembley for Saturday’s FA Cup final between Arsenal and Chelsea, and Twickenham’s Premiership final between Wasps and Exeter.
A full review of the security and policing operations for the weekend’s sporting events is under way.
Wembley will also stage the League Two play-off final between Blackpool and Exeter on Sunday and the Championship play-off final between Huddersfield and Reading on Monday.
A Football Association spokesman said: “Fan safety is of paramount importance and we have robust security measures in place at Wembley Stadium. In collaboration with the Metropolitan Police and the local authorities there will be an enhanced security operation for all upcoming events. All supporters are encouraged to arrive at Wembley Stadium as early as possible for security checks and to avoid any delays in entering the stadium.”
Former Manchester United striker Eric Cantona has recorded a message of support and solidarity for the victims of the terror attack in Manchester, saying “my heart is with you”.
Former France international Cantona, who retired from football at the age of 30 in 1997 after a hugely successful five-year spell at United, said his thoughts were with those affected.
“I think deeply to the victims, to the wounded persons, kids, teenagers, adults, to their families, to their friends, to all, all of you, all of us,” the 50-year-old on Eurosport UK’s Twitter feed. “I think to this city, Manchester, and Mancunians, that I love deeply. I think to this country, England, and the English, that I love deeply. I suffer with you, my heart is with you. I always feel close to you.”
The San Antonio Spurs’ season is over eight wins short of the franchise’s sixth championship, swept by the Golden State Warriors and outscored by 84 points over the final three and one half games of the Western Conference Finals. So concludes the finest coaching performance in Gregg Popovich’s 21 seasons leading the Spurs.
San Antonio’s line-up for their Game 4 defeat showed how little Popovich had to work with at the end. Patty Mills, Danny Green, Jonathon Simmons, what’s left of LaMarcus Aldridge and then Manu Ginobili getting an honorary start for what may have been his final game in a remarkable NBA career. On the sidelines was MVP candidate Kawhi Leonard, out with an ankle injury since late in the first half of Game 1 when Golden State’s Zaza Pachulia accidentally undercut him (or committed basketball “manslaughter”, depending on your point of view).
San Antonio had already been playing without future Hall of Fame point guard Tony Parker and role player David Lee. And all of this carnage came in the first first season the Spurs played without Tim Duncan since Bob Dole was the Republican candidate for president.
Transitioning beyond a franchise legend sets most franchise’s back quite a long way. Yet Popovich’s Spurs still went 61-21 this season, good for the second-best record in the NBA. Even losing a second franchise legend in the playoffs when Parker went down didn’t do them. Popovich gave heavier minutes to Mills and 20-year old point guard Dejounte Murray – San Antonio’s pick at No29 in last June’s draft – and San Antonio closed out a Rockets team that thought itself a legit title contender in six games, taking Game 6 by a final score of 114-75 that wasn’t nearly as close as those digits suggest. For extra bonus points, the Spurs’ humiliation of the Rockets in the series finale came without Leonard, who sat out the game with a tender ankle. Leonard returned for Game 1 of the Conference Finals with a vengeance, scoring 26 points in 24 minutes as the Spurs built a 23-point lead halfway through the third quarter. And then it all collapsed. Popovich has won NBA coach of the year just three times in his 21 seasons. Likewise, LeBron James has only been deemed league MVP four times in 14 seasons and isn’t even a finalist for the award this year. Both men are so consistently excellent that there’s an urge among voters to almost punish them for it and feel the need to honor some other coach or player this year because surely Pop and LeBron will have more opportunities to win individual awards down the road. But if all was fair, each man would have double-digit trophies and no one could rightly complain. Maybe the better idea is to just name the NBA’s coach of the year award the Pop Trophy and then it won’t matter who they give it to.
The consistent winner that Popovich has maintained – with a huge assist from general manager RC Buford – is so remarkable precisely because it is a consistent winner. The Spurs have had one pick better than No24 in the draft in the last 20 years, and that was in 2010 when they selected ... wait for it ... 20th overall. Twenty consecutive playoff appearances in a row, never once picking in the lottery portion of the draft since landing Tim Duncan in 1997. Trust the process.
Despite the franchise’s five titles, the Spurs are never anybody’s title pick heading into a new season. They’re the anti-New England Patriots despite having the same number of championships. But even if Ginobili retires, and even if Parker soon follows him, the Spurs will be right back in contention next year, probably aided by a solid contributor taken 29th in the draft and an international import no one outside of San Antonio’s front office has ever heard of.
While Leonard transitioned into the team’s go-to player in Duncan’s final years, it’s still remarkable how San Antonio churned right along this season without the longtime stoneface of the franchise. The 1990s Bulls didn’t make it through the conference semis while Michael Jordan was Tebow’ing around in minor league baseball; when both Jordan and Pippen split a few years later, Chicago didn’t crack 30 wins for five years. The Jazz missed the playoffs for three consecutive years without Karl Malone and John Stockton. The Celtics weren’t a factor for more than 15 years after Larry Bird retired. No one still has any idea what the post-Kobe Lakers are doing and the Mavericks are falling into oblivion and Dirk Nowitzki hasn’t even retired yet. But in Year 1 AD (After Duncan), Popovich’s Spurs were just one ankle-slaughter away from taking a 1-0 lead on the star-packed Golden State Warriors. Who knows what could have happened from there.
“Usually things happen in the world and you go to work and you have your family and your friends and you do what you do,” Popovich said during the Conference Finals. “To this day, I feel like there’s a cloud, a pall over the whole country in a paranoid, surreal sort of way ... It has to do with the way one individual conducts himself, and that’s embarrassing. It’s dangerous to our institutions and what we all stand for and what we expect the country to be. For this individual, he’s in a game show. Everything that happens begins and ends with him, not our people or our country. Every time he talks about those things, it’s a ruse. Disingenuous, cynical.”
How good is Popovich at coaching basketball? It’s so easy for him that in his spare time he’s able to provide political commentary that is far more insightful than anything heard on CNN or any other network. At least I think that was political commentary. He could have been talking about Zaza Pachulia.
Ander Herrera has already played in one Europa League final but if that makes him more experienced than many of his Manchester United team-mates it is only because his present club have rarely given Uefa’s second-string competition their full attention. The midfielder reached the 2012 final in Bucharest with Athletic Bilbao, only to be beaten 3-0 by an Atlético Madrid side already beginning to respond to the newly arrived Diego Simeone.
Bilbao put out Manchester United on the way to the final, along with Schalke and Sporting Lisbon, but when they came across Radamel Falcao and a well-organised Atlético they were out of their depth. “Atlético were better than us,” Herrera said. “They were more experienced and they managed the game well.”
That should not happen in Stockholm on Wednesday. United may no longer be the European heavyweights they once were but they go into the final against Ajax as favourites on account of the age and experience contained within the squad, not least in the coaching department. If anyone can prepare a team to win a particular game José Mourinho probably can – and Herrera is likely to be an important part of his strategy.
The 27-year-old has not only survived but thrived at Old Trafford this season and was voted the player of the year by the club’s supporters. David de Gea had won the award for the previous three seasons, which tells you all you need to know about United under David Moyes and Louis van Gaal. Herrera’s importance to the side was expected to be overshadowed by the arrival of the world-record signing Paul Pogba but the scrapper from Spain has had arguably his most effective campaign.
Herrera is neat, assured and versatile, in his own words he can play 10, 8, or 6, which means he can cover any role from defensive shield to operating in the hole behind the main striker. Pleasingly, Herrera can adapt his game to each position, he never looks as if he would be happier or better used elsewhere on the pitch. He can do something else as well, he can follow instructions and he can follow an opponent all afternoon, best exemplified when he man-marked Eden Hazard out of the game when United beat Chelsea. Van Gaal never seemed wholly convinced by a player who was already a United target when he joined the club in 2014 but Herrera’s snappy aggression and non-stop, whole-hearted performances have been exactly what Mourinho would have asked for.
There is no doubt the player’s feistiness on the pitch is what endears him to United fans. In a team frequently criticised for being laboured or lethargic Herrera stands out as a bundle of energy. The energy is not always directed at opponents, a fair amount of it is aimed at the referee and what is left over is often used to gee up team-mates but Herrera is not one of those players who drifts through games looking unruffled or indifferent. He cares, he gets worked up and he does not mind admitting it.
“I’m not perfect but I always try to give of my best,” he said recently. “I never want to feel at the end of a game that I still have some energy left. At this club the fans have seen some incredible players over the years and you must always be aware of what a privilege it is to play for Manchester United.”
Herrera has not only been able to win over the fans by putting such words into deeds, he also forced Gary Neville to backtrack. The former United player turned pundit was not initially impressed by what he saw, suggesting Herrera was “too nice” to be a destructive force in midfield. After three years he has revised his opinion.
He looks like a fighter now. If there's a job to be done on the pitch it is usually him doing it
Herrera is still never going to be mistaken for Roy Keane in a bad mood, though he has displayed tenacity on the pitch as well as off it. He has sometimes had to fight for his shirt and has done so willingly, while he has been remarkably consistent whether used as a defensive midfielder or further up the field. “He looks like a fighter now,” Neville said. “If there’s a job to be done on the pitch it is usually him doing it.”
The difference is probably confidence and a regular place. Herrera has grown into his role at United and Mourinho has made sure he knows he is valued. Herrera was delighted to receive the player of the year award from De Gea, a player he has long admired, though, typically, not about to get above himself.
“It’s not about what I have done, this is a team sport,” he said. “We have in our hands the chance to make history for the club but if we are going to win the trophy we will need hard work from everyone.
“We are a team who is together. Even [injured] Zlatan Ibrahimovic will be there to help and support us, and we have players like Michael Carrick and Wayne Rooney who have been European champions. Not every player in our dressing room has played in a European final but people who know what it is like can push us to be prepared.”
The Premier League’s top scorer, Harry Kane, hit two hat-tricks in the final week of the season to win the golden boot for the second year running. With 29 goals from 30 appearances, he had to lead the line in our team of the season. Supporting Kane is the league’s top-rated player, Eden Hazard, who is the only Chelsea player in the side. The fact that the top two clubs are represented by just two players says more about their collective efforts than their lack of individual brilliance. The same cannot be said of Arsenal. The gap between their best player, Alexis Sánchez (7.76), and their second best, Laurent Koscielny (7.25), is the biggest in the league this season. Had it not been for Sánchez’s brilliance – 24 goals and 10 assists – Arsenal would have struggled more than they did.
While Paul Pogba was castigated by many, he performed well and finished the campaign with a goal and an assist against Crystal Palace on Sunday. Pogba’s team-mate Antonio Valencia, the Manchester United players’ player of the year and the man in line to captain the team in the Europa League final this week, fills the right-back spot in our team. Remaining in Manchester, Kevin de Bruyne provided more assists (18) than any other Premier League player this season, while Nicolás Otamendi and Aleksandar Kolarov both impressed at the back. Otamendi ranked high for tackles (2.3), interceptions (2.7), clearances (6.3) and aerial duels won per game (3.2), while Kolarov was a sturdy performer when called upon.
Roberto Firmino enjoyed a solid second season at Anfield, scoring 11 goals and laying on seven assists, while Virgil van Dijk was by far the best centre-back in the league before an injury cut his season short in January. Between the sticks, Jordan Pickford proved once again why he is so highly rated. The 23-year-old was a shining light in Sunderland’s abysmal season, making 135 saves in 29 appearances. Only Burnley keeper Tom Heaton – 141 saves in 35 appearances – made more.
Neymar (8.52), Lionel Messi (8.46) and Luis Suárez (7.81) scored 79 goals between them in La Liga this season to finish as the top three rated players in the league. Neymar’s inclusion means there is no place for Cristiano Ronaldo in our side, with Real Madrid represented by Toni Kroos and Dani Carvajal. Kroos finished second for assists (12) in La Liga, while Carvajal returned impressive figures for tackles (2.5), interceptions (2) and key passes per game (1.5).
Across the Madrid divide, three Atlético players made the cut in the shape of Diego Godín, Filipe Luís and Antoine Griezmann. Godín missed the run-in due to suspension, but was again a solid performer at the heart of the Atlético defence, while Filipe Luís provided the required width from deep, having completed more dribbles (74) than any other defender in Spain. Griezmann endured his worst goalscoring season for the club so far but still scored 16 and set up another eight. It’s no wonder Manchester United are prepared to spend big on the striker.
There’s a place at the heart of the defence for Athletic Club’s young centre-back Yeray Álvarez, who averaged more interceptions per game (3.7) than any other player in La Liga this season. Asier Illarramendi (3.5) had the second most interceptions and his 69 passes per game also ranked highly. Alaves were the surprise package in Spain this season, securing a ninth-place finish after 10 years outside of the top flight, and goalkeeper Fernando Pacheco deserves much credit. Alaves conceded the fifth fewest goals (43) in the league and Pacheco ended the campaign with a respectable 73.2% save success rate.
The Bundesliga’s top two clubs make up the bulk of the team of the season. Starting with the debutants, RB Leipzig astounded everyone in their first campaign in the league. While every player deserves credit, Naby Keïta and Emil Forsberg were the standout stars. Keita was second for dribble success rate (63.8%), while Forsberg provided more assists (19) than any other player in Europe’s big leagues. The man to beat Keita in the dribble stakes? Thiago Alcântara (70.6%), who enjoyed a stunning season under Carlo Ancelotti. The Spaniard earned a rating of 8.28 and made more interceptions (125) than any other player.
His Bayern Munich team-mate, Arjen Robben, rounds off the midfield, with 13 goals, nine assists and 67 dribbles. Further forward, Robert Lewandowski was pipped to the golden boot by Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang on the final day, but his 30 goals and five assists helped earn a rating of 7.74. Max Kruse was one of Werder Bremen’s best players, with 15 goals and seven assists.
At the back, Arsenal target Sead Kolasinac features at left-back, while FC Cologne’s Frederik Sorensen takes the right-back spot. In the middle of the defence, Mats Hummels lines up alongside Benjamin Hübner, who averaged 2.9 tackles, 3.3 interceptions and 3.1 clearances per game. Hübner’s Hoffenheim team-mate, Oliver Baumann, plays in goal, having made more saves (115) than any other keeper in the league. Only Manuel Neuer (14) kept more clean sheets than the Hoffenheim No1 (12) as Baumann played a vital role in their top-four finish, a fine feat given Hoffenheim were nearly relegated a year ago.
There isn’t a better place to start in the Ligue 1 team of the season than right at the back, where Yohann Pelé excelled for Marseille. The 34-year-old kept 18 clean sheets in 38 appearances in what was a fine campaign. In front of him, we have two Paris Saint-Germain defenders and one each from St-Étienne and Guingamp. St-Étienne captain Loïc Perrin is one of the more consistent players in the league and was again impressive this season, with 2.2 tackles, 2.1 interceptions and 5.7 clearances per game. Fernando Marçal, who spent the season on loan at Guingamp from Benfica, provided more assists than any other defender in the league.
Thomas Meunier was perhaps brought in as an understudy for Serge Aurier but he earned his place in the starting line-up and impressed alongside the experienced Thiago Silva. Lucas Moura enjoyed a successful season, with 12 goals and five assists enough to earn him a place alongside his Paris Saint-Germain team-mate Marco Verratti. The Italian made the second most passes per game (87.5) in Ligue 1 and remains one of the best midfielders in the game.
Champions Monaco are well represented in the Ligue 1 team of the season through Fabinho and Thomer Lemar. Alexandre Lacazette scored 28 goals this season to become our top rated player in the league and he plays up front with creative sensation Ryad Boudebouz, who made more key passes (117) than any other player in the league. Considering Montpellier could only finish in 15th, a big summer move is in the offing for the 27-year-old Algerian.
There is still one week left in Serie A, but little is expected to change in the team of the season. The champions have only two representatives in our team but, as with Antonio Conte’s Chelsea, that says more about their collective effort than their lack of quality. The two stars who really stood out in the Juventus team were Brazilian full-backs Dani Alves and Alex Sandro. Mattia Caldara, who was on loan from Juventus at Atalanta this season, caught the eye with seven goals and he is joined by surprise package Federico Fazio at the heart of defence.
Gianluigi Donnarumma, who turned 18 this season, earned the best rating of any goalkeeper in Europe to make our team. In midfield, Lazio’s Felipe Anderson and Roma’s Radja Nainggolan are joined by Napoli duo Marek Hamsik and Lorenzo Insigne. Hamsik ranked third for key passes (75) and Insigne impressed with 17 goals and eight assists.
The top two rated players in Serie A partner in attack, with Edin Dzeko (7.82) leading the way both in rating and goals scored (28). Atalanta’s Alejandro “Papu” Gómez (7.75) partners Dzeko in attack. No player has won more our of man of the match awards (10) in the league this season, though his place is under threat from Dries Mertens, who has scored 27 goals so far.
The standout star in the Primeira Liga team of the season is Bas Dost, who scored 34 goals for Sporting in in his debut campaign. Incredibly, he scored more goals than nine of the 18 teams in the league. Benfica forward Jonas partners Dost in attack and for good reason, with the 33-year-old ending the campaign with 13 goals and four assists from just 19 appearances. The champions are also represented through Pizzi, who scored 10 goals and provided eight assists from midfielder. Pizzi ranked top for key passes (90) and total passes (2495) with the 27-year-old’s ball retention and creative qualities crucial in Benfica’s success.
Yacine Brahimi and Gelson Martins provide the speed out wide in our team, with Danilo Pereira rounding off the midfield, having averaged 1.8 tackles and 2.2 interceptions per game. Porto team-mates Felipe and Alex Telles impressed at the back this season. Telles made the second most crosses per game (2.3), while Felipe’s proactive approach to defending gave him averages of 4.4 clearances and 2.4 interceptions per game as Porto conceded just 19 goals this season.
Raul Silva was solid at centre-back for Maritimo in their excellent campaign and Nelsinho’s impact from full-back helped ensure Benfica landed the title. Last but certainly not least, Vana features in goal, with the 26-year-old averaging a notable 3.6 saves per game.
• Follow WhoScored on Twitter and Facebook• Follow Ben McAleer on Twitter
The last scraps of first-hand information before the Derby on 3 June were recorded here on Tuesday, as three horses with entries in the Classic, including the leading ante-post contenders Cracksman and Eminent, exercised on the course at the track’s annual Breakfast With The Stars event.
Horseplay, a 12-1 chance for the Oaks, was also given the chance to experience the famous downhill run around Tattenham Corner, and all three horses did enough to suggest this unique track will not catch them out next week.
Cracksman has been here before, having narrowly beaten Permian, another Derby contender, in the Investec Classic Trial in April, but John Gosden’s colt missed his intended prep run for Epsom when the ground for the Dante Stakes at York last week turned soft. Permian franked the earlier form with victory in his absence but Cracksman has had just one run this season and there was a little more urgency about his gallop than was the case for Eminent a few minutes later.
Eminent and Cracksman are sons of the outstanding Frankel and share an impressive stride with their sire. Both moved smoothly down the hill before moving clear of their lead horses and neither Gosden nor Martyn Meade, the trainer of Eminent, could have asked for more from their Derby contenders.
Cracksman is owned by Anthony Oppenheimer, whose Golden Horn worked on the track at the same event before giving Gosden and Frankie Dettori their second victories in the Derby two seasons ago.
“He did a bit of routine stuff, like we did with Golden Horn two years ago,” Dettori said. “We just started at the mile and came around Tattenham Corner and then pulled up at the furlong marker, so if I went past the winning post at snail’s pace, it was because I was already pulling up.
“He’s a horse that’s only run twice and you’d expect him to improve. What happened at Epsom [in April] was a blessing, because it was a slow-run race, he had to move out and quicken and do a lot of things and he answered every call. It was great to see the second winning the Dante. It gives me a lot of confidence going into the race that we have a horse that can be very competitive and go to war with something that’s going to be close to favouritism. He’s not Golden Horn yet by any means, but potentially he can be anything and a week Saturday, we’ll find out.”
Eminent recorded a fast time when successful in the Craven Stakes on his first run of the season but finished only sixth behind Churchill in the 2,000 Guineas. The winner there could boost the form in the Irish equivalent on Saturday, while Meade feels that another half-mile can bring further improvement from his colt, who will be his first Derby runner.
“I was thrilled, he did exactly what we wanted him to do today,” Meade said. “This horse hasn’t been away from Newmarket in his entire life, so to have a new experience was very important for him. I wanted him to stay overnight as well, to get used to a different environment and just see how he would act around this track.
“I always had the feeling he was going to act well, and I think he did. The [Derby] trip is what we’ve been waiting for, I think. The Guineas just wasn’t for us, things didn’t go according to plan and maybe it came a bit soon after the Craven.
“In a way, you want to get on with it now and get it over with, but it’s just such a wonderful privilege to have a horse capable of running in the race.”
Best Of Days, unraced since winning the Royal Lodge Stakes at Newmarket last September, also exercised around a mile of the track on Tuesday morning, but Hugo Palmer, his trainer, remains unsure whether the colt will be part of the Godolphin operation’s significant team for the Derby.
“We had a little bit of a setback with him three months ago,” Palmer said, “and that’s why he’s not run in a trial. We were able to keep exercising him, but he went six weeks without having a rider on his back.
“He’s in the King Edward VII and Queen’s Vase [at Royal Ascot] and we’ll put him in the Irish Derby tomorrow, and while the Derby is the Derby, there are a lot of other nice races for him.”
Aidan O’Brien, in a phone interview, confirmed he could have seven runners on Saturday week, a squad that seems likely to be led by Cliffs Of Moher, the winner of the Dee Stakes at Chester’s May meeting.
“I think there’s a good chance we’ll have seven,” O’Brien said. “We were very happy [with Cliffs Of Moher] at Chester, he went to the line very well. We think that he’s going to improve, he’s done a couple of pieces since and we’re happy with that.
“The three from the Derrinstown [Douglas Macarthur, Yucatan and Capri] all came on from their first to their second run and we think they will come on again, and the three from the Vase at Chester [Venice Beach, Wings Of Eagles and The Anvil] are all solid mile-and-a-half horses that could even get further.”
Phil White, who has responsibility for Epsom in his role as the Jockey Club’s London regional director, said security at next week’s Derby Festival, which includes the Oaks and Coronation Cup the day before the Derby, will be a primary concern following the devastating bomb attack in Manchester.
“People’s safety is our No1 priority, it always has been,” White said. “We’ve been working with Surrey police and all other partners to ensure we’ve got robust and appropriate measures in place for the Derby and that hasn’t changed but of course with Manchester being a developing situation, we will be in constant contact with the police in the days leading up to the event.”
Ayr
2.20 Noble Manners 2.50 Duncan Of Scotland 3.20 Secret City 3.50 Straightothepoint 4.20 Inexes 4.50 Restive 5.20 Nezwaah 5.55 Stoneboat Bill
Kempton Park
6.10 Transmitting 6.40 Margherita 7.10 Di Fede 7.40 Wadigor 8.10 Dubai’s Secret (nb) 8.40 Broughtons Fancy 9.10 Arctic Angel
Yarmouth
2.00 Cartographer 2.30 Tyrsal 3.00 Graceful Lady 3.30 In Ken’s Memory 4.00 King Oswald 4.30 Realize (nap) 5.00 Swilly Sunset
Lingfield Park
2.10 Cross Step 2.40 Brooke’s Point 3.10 Rosa Damascena 3.40 Kerrymerry 4.10 Taajub 4.40 Regarde Moi 5.10 Fleeting Glimpse
Southwell
5.50 Yes Daddy 6.20 Minella Tweet 6.50 Follow The Bear 7.20 Lerichi Belle 7.50 Lovely Touch 8.20 Lilly’s Legend 8.50 Hello Bertie
“The haters will always hate,” says Lance Stroll with a passivity that almost certainly belies the fact he knows there is more weight to the phrase than its throwaway juvenilia suggests.
The 18-year-old Canadian rookie is already under intense pressure and about to face his toughest test on the streets of Monaco. How he comes through it will determine whether he can give his critics reason to reassess.
Stroll has been carrying baggage since he entered the senior levels of racing and it has increased now he is in Formula One. Just as Mrs Merton once asked Debbie McGee what “first attracted her to the millionaire Paul Daniels”, Stroll is almost never mentioned without reference to being “the son of Canadian billionaire, Lawrence” – used as shorthand for explaining the teenager’s place on the grid.
His father has bankrolled him with largesse up to and including ensuring his drive with Williams. Among other things Stroll Sr purchased the Prema F3 team and, for his winning 2016 season in the series, hired the Ferrari engineer Luca Baldisserri. Before entering F1 he paid for his son to go testing at a variety of circuits with a 2014 Williams. For the haters Stroll is on the grid only because of family funding and the scale of it seems to rile them further.
Stroll is used to it now. “I think it is a very normal reaction,” he says. “People think he has money, it is easy for him to be where he is. But in this sport everyone has to have money coming from somewhere to get through the junior ranks. The fact I have won championships and races proves there is more to the story than money.”
Pay drivers are nothing new and being backed by family money is not unusual but Stroll has attracted far more attention and ill-feeling than many others. First there is the speed with which he has made it to the top after only three seasons in single-seaters but more crucially the one answer with which he could have silenced the critics – success on the track in F1 – has been lacking.
Dismissing Stroll so quickly seems a little unfair. In Australia a brake failure caused a DNF, in China he was spun out by Sergio Pérez and in Bahrain Carlos Sainz also ended his race with an ill-timed attack. A spin at Sochi was recovered for his first finish in 11th place and perhaps his worst race was an indifferent performance at the last grand prix in Barcelona. He knows he was not on the same pace as his team-mate, Felipe Massa, who passed him despite having been 50 seconds back.
He is bullish but honest on the season so far. “It’s wrong to say Lance Stroll is the driver who started at the Australian Grand Prix – that’s not how it is,” he says. “I am 18 years old, it’s my first year, the cars are tricky to drive, the tracks are new and these are all challenges I have to work at. I know in time I will be a much better driver and I don’t doubt that.”
The longer he goes without better performances the greater the pressure to prove his point is going to become. Paddy Lowe, the Williams technical director, has acknowledged that fact. “One of the very difficult things for Lance is the enormous pressure placed on him,” he says. “He’s a driver with a lot of expectation around him across the paddock, because there’s a spotlight on how he got here and ‘does he really deserve the drive?’”
The sentiments are echoed by the team’s deputy principal, Claire Williams. “He has a huge amount of pressure on his shoulders,” she says, “but I think he’s doing an impressive job. Our realistic expectations this year are for him to score points.”
Scoring points is crucial and Williams need Stroll to step up. They are sixth in the constructors’ championship, 35 behind the fourth-placed Force India, the position Williams targeted at the start of the year. He seems unlikely to do so in Monte Carlo, with the street track not playing to the strengths of his car, but proving he can master the circuit cleanly would be an achievement.
Monaco is a test like no other, where even the smallest error is punished unforgivingly. “I know it is going to be a big challenge, knowing the type of track it is, and I have never been there before,” Stroll says.
The jury, for the moment at least, ought to be out on Stroll and he remains unconcerned by the verdicts that are already in. “There are people who are hating you more because of where you are coming from,” he says. “People like the ‘he comes from nothing and made it to F1’ story. I know that but I just do my thing, I focus on my job.”
This week is all about focus. He will need to be razor sharp to make it in Monaco because, if he fails, Stroll will be subjected to an even greater and more critical gaze.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Robert Madley was absolutely correct to disallow Riyad Mahrez’s penalty against Manchester City on 13 May. Having spotted the Algerian kicking the ball against his standing foot before it went into the net, the referee had no choice but to award Manchester City a free-kick. Yet this law feels unfair on the attacking player. It was clear that Mahrez accidentally slipped while taking his penalty and that he was not trying to gain an unfair advantage by misdirecting Willy Caballero. Perhaps the law needs to be tweaked. Though the double touch cannot be permitted when it is used in an underhand way, would it not have been fairer to award a retake in this case?
Yes, the Football Association still has to eke out as much money as possible from Wembley. Even so, surely sporting reasons should trump admittedly valid business ones when it comes to staging FA Cup semi-finals. Making it to Wembley is supposed to mean something to supporters and players, so isn’t the stadium’s aura lessened by playing matches there prematurely? Let’s go back to having the semis on neutral venues and save the famous walk up Wembley Way for the final. And while we’re at it, is there any reason that the League Cup semi-finals are two-legged affairs? Not only does this format favour stronger sides and lower the chances of upsets, it is also an obvious place to start if the authorities want to trim fat from the schedule. After a draining Christmas period, it is an unnecessary burden.
Michael Oliver was brave and observant enough to send off Ander Herrera when he spotted that Manchester United’s players were fouling Chelsea’s Eden Hazard on a rotational basis in their FA Cup quarter-final. The treatment towards the Belgian was not brutal, but Oliver was sufficiently concerned to hold a lengthy discussion with United’s captain, Chris Smalling, about the constant fouling on Chelsea’s biggest threat. Play restarted and Herrera, already on a booking, brought Hazard down again. It wasn’t the worst foul and in isolation it probably did not merit a second yellow card. But enough was enough. Herrera was off. The problem, however, is that other referees might not be as astute or courageous as Oliver and that kind of cynicism will not be eradicated for good without punishing the person who is ultimately responsible. If referees identify what they believe to be a premeditated campaign of intimidation on one player, why not grant them the power to sanction the offending side’s manager?
Nobody cares about your boring pub conversations about controversial refereeing decisions. They are not a reason to push back against the introduction of further technology that can prevent mistakes from ruining games. This is not about too much being at stake for referees to make errors: it is simply about making sure that there is as much of a level playing field as possible. Human error is inevitable. But so much unhealthy anger could be avoided if referees were given more support. Would it really have been so terrible if play had been stopped for a couple of minutes to allow a video referee to alert the officials on the pitch about Alexis Sánchez’s handball against Hull? Arsenal might have gone on to win that game anyway, but at least Hull wouldn’t have been left with a burning sense of injustice at full-time. More technology would not lower our respect for referees. It would have the opposite effect.
Manchester United versus Southampton on a Friday night? No thank you! West Ham versus Tottenham on a Friday night? Yes please! The difference between the two examples is obvious: whereas it was unreasonable to expect Southampton fans to make the long journey up to Old Trafford at the end of the week, there was nothing wrong with having a London derby at that time. Night games between local rivals are easy to attend and the atmosphere tends to be better under the lights. Television companies need to take that on board. With thoughtful scheduling, there is no reason that Friday night football cannot be a success.
An long range own goal by the England defender Fikayo Tomori handed Guinea a 1-1 draw at the Under-20 World Cup in South Korea.
Chelsea’s Tomori put the ball in his own net from just outside the centre circle in the 59th minute after attempting a backpass to his goalkeeper Dean Henderson. The defender struck the ball without looking and was shocked to see Henderson well outside the penalty area. The keeper made a vain attempt to kick the ball clear as it passed him. Lewis Cook opened the scoring in the 53rd minute with a low shot from 25 yards.
England wore black armbands during the Group A match in Jeonju in recognition of the bomb attack at the Ariana Grande concert in Manchester.
Following their 3-0 victory against Argentina on Saturday England have four points from two matches and next face South Korea on Friday. Guinea, who earned its first point in the tournament, play Argentina.
In Group B, Venezuela became the first team to advance to the second round by routing Vanuatu 7-0 in Daejeon.
Sixteen of the 24 teams will progress to the knockout stage, the top two teams from each of the six groups and the four best third-place finishers. The final takes place in Suwon on 11 June.
Disaster for @England!A misunderstanding at the back gifts Guinea an equaliser 🎁 pic.twitter.com/zB2bYGNLJI
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
This is a rather nonsensical category if the best referees are the ones you do not notice. But perhaps that just means that referees should be subject to a negative form of evaluation whereby the best are the ones who provoked the least amount of swearing and outrage. Every official, just like every player and coach and possibly even some journalists, made mistakes this season but some made fewer than others; and some governed in a more helpful way than others. The football authorities of Saudi Arabia, which is of course very big on enlightened government, reckon that Mark Clattenberg is the Premier League’s top referee and have succeeded in attracting him to their kingdom to rear a generation of expert Saudi whistle-blowers. This, then, was Clattenberg’s last season in the Premier League so you might like to vote for him as a kind of lifetime achievement award. Ander Herrera probably wouldn’t endorse that after the harsh sending off he suffered against Burnley this season, a match in which Clattenberg also dismissed José Mourinho for protesting about a rejected penalty appeal, but, in general, players seem to appreciate the way that Clattenberg runs games.
Madley showed he was prepared to make big decisions when he (correctly) sent off three players on his Premier League debut back in 2013 and he did not shrink from making big calls this season either. Riyad Mahrez found that out when he had a goal chalked off after being (correctly) adjudged to have a kicked the ball twice from the penalty spot against Manchester City. Other officials have either let such offences go in the past but Madley was admirably vigilant. He was less vigilant, mind you, when Chelsea went to Everton earlier in the season and Séamus Coleman escaped unpunished for an ugly tackle on Diego Costa. In April Madley was criticised for sending off Oumar Niasse against Watford and that decision was later overturned on appeal, which seemed an unjust undermining of the referee whose decision at the time was perfectly understandable.
The 46-year-old’s standing is such that he takes charge of international and Champions League matches on top of his domestic duties and he usually goes about his work in as non-intrusive a way as possible. He is particularly reluctant to show red cards, so a player really has to do something oafish to be dismissed by Atkinson. The last player he sent off was – you guessed it – Marouane Fellaini. Arsenal fans might complain that Atkinson can be a tad too laissez-faire at times, notably when he and his assistants failed to spot a couple of significant offsides when Manchester City beat Arsenal 2-1 this season, but, overall, Atkinson does not feature prominently in many fans bad books.
He took charge of more matches than any other Premier League official this season, including several high-profile European games. He memorably sent off Burnley’s Jeff Hendrick for a bad foul against Watford after only six minutes, showing righteous contempt for the silly but popular notion that a player should be let off for first or early offences. He still had no truck with that notion when Laurent Koscielny got dangerously reckless against Everton after only 14 minutes on the final day of the season. Oliver could have sent off Yaya Touré in the first half in Manchester City’s draw with Liverpool at the Etihad in what was one of the referee’s most contentious displays in a season in which he got far more decisions right than wrong.
Cricket statistics often come with caveats attached. According to Wisden, Don Bradman’s 95.14 is the highest batting average in first-class cricket. But, as the small print says, that is only among those who scored at least 10,000 runs. And that little asterisk hides a lot. Like this, the story of a man with a better average than Bradman, and everyone else in the history of first-class cricket, the man who would be top of that list if it were not for that caveat.
In the little town of Hay, close by the Murrumbidgee River, one thing everyone agreed on was that Norman Callaway could play. Hay was only 40 years old back then, but they had still had some fine cricketers in that time – men like the dashing all-rounder ‘Happy Jack’ Dillon and Frank Darchy, the local Justice of the Peace. Tom Callaway was a good bat too but his boy, Norman, was going to be better than the lot of them. He was only 12 the first time he turned out for Waradgery CC. They had been two men short and sent him at No7. He could hardly lay bat on ball in those early matches but everyone noticed his fielding and the local paper wrote up his “magnificent”, “splendid” catches at square-leg.
Norman swam well and sprinted fast but cricket was his thing. His father taught him to play straight, so Norman soon learned how to hold an end up. He made five not out in Waradgery’s big game in the town derby against Hay, to save the draw. Then when he was batting against boys his own age, he was something else again. When Public School played Convent in October 1910, Norman creamed 117 in the first innings and 64 in the second. The paper called him the “Trumper of the school” after Victor Trumper, who in 1910 was every boy’s hero. That same season Trumper took 159 and 214 not out off the South Africans, in back-to-back Test matches.
Before long there was not much left that Tom could teach his son. When Waradgery played Hay again that November, Tom was out for a duck, and the team were 24 for three when Norman came in. “Young Callaway,” said the local paper “proceeded to show his grandfathers – not how to suck eggs – but how to play the Hay bowling.” He made 32, the top score out of the team’s 117. He was going to be “the best Hay has ever produced”, the town’s “knickerbocker champion”.
The Callaways had a four-room house on Hatty Street, with a garden full of dahlias and a brood of leghorn chickens. Tom owned a soap factory, so they were comfortable enough. But 1912, the year Norman scored 259 runs in six innings and took 15 wickets with his leg-spin too, was the year everything changed. In May Emily Callaway gave birth to a third child, a boy called Ernest. Three days later he died of acute bronchitis. In their grief the Callaways decided to sell up and move to the city. They auctioned off the house, the factory and their furniture and in late November made the long journey to Sydney. “Callaway and his family,” said the paper, “succumbed to the attractions of ‘the big smoke’.”
City life suited Norman just fine. He joined Paddington Cricket Club and played his way into the second grade. He finished the season top of the averages, with 80 from seven innings, and caught the eye of the great Alec Bannerman, doyen of the local coaches, a man Wisden itself said “would be remembered as long as cricket is played”. Bannerman picked Callaway to train with the New South Wales Colts and made a point of talking him up in the papers. “A fair bowler and a good batsman,” was Bannerman’s verdict, “worthy of inclusion in the first XI”.
First grade was a leap for a 17-year-old. Norman made his debut against Trumper’s club, Gordon. Paddington’s skipper Monty Noble sent Callaway in at No3 and he made 41, top score in the team’s 213. “He played very neat and correct cricket,” said the Sydney Morning Herald, in an innings “well worthy of special mention”. Norman followed it with a 26 against University, top score in a draw on a tricky pitch. These performances made news back in Hay, where the Riverine Grazier ran proud “told you so” stories about the hometown boy batting in big-city cricket.
Soon the Sydneysiders cottoned on too. On 18 October Norman hit 137 against Middle Harbour and all of a sudden, everyone was talking about this country kid, only lately up from Hay. “A splendid innings,” said the Herald, “he batted brilliantly,” agreed The Sunday Times. Callaway was 5ft 7in but “a wonderfully well developed lad, of great power and splendid physique”, “strongly built for his years”. He still played straight, just like Tom had taught him, “keeping the left elbow well forward”, but now he had an “easy and confident” leg glance, a “crisp”, “strong” drive and showed a “splendid judgement” in “selecting the right ball to jump into and punish.”
Norman finished the season with an average just under 50, which earned him a call-up to the NSW Colts. At the MCG he tore into Victoria, hitting 129 in two hours of batting. “He is,” said the Sydney Sun, “one of the most promising colts seen for some time”. That winter the Callaways moved to a house on Ebley Street and Norman switched clubs. He was playing for Waverley now, where he found himself in the middle order alongside another bright young prospect, Alan Kippax. They batted side-by-side through the season, taking turns at the top of the averages.
When a slot opened up in the NSW team, it was Callaway who got it, not Kippax. This was for the inter-state game against Queensland at the SCG, the last first-class match of the season. It started on Friday, 19 February 1915, a beautiful, sunny day in Sydney.
Queensland won the toss, and chose to bat. Which was a mistake. They collapsed to 137 all out, routed by New South Wales’ two quicks, Lyall Wall and Will Cullen. But Queensland had four fine fast bowlers of their own. John McLaren, who had already played Test cricket, Charles Barstow and Sidney Redgrave, who had both represented Australia XIs in tour games, and John McAndrew, who would do in the future. And McAndrew, a tall, left-arm quick, was running red-hot. He clean-bowled three men in his first spell, for just nine runs, and NSW were 17 for three.
Around 4pm, then, Norman Callaway walked out into the SCG, an 18-year-old on his first-class debut. And he started to do the one thing everyone in Hay had always said he could. “From the first ball,” said the Herald, “he swung the bat with great power and precision at anything within striking distance.” Norman made 20 in his first 10 minutes at the crease. Soon his partner, Frank Farrar, was caught behind, and the score was 58 for four. In came NSW’s captain, the ‘Governor-General’ himself, Charlie Macartney. Macartney was dropped at slip, first ball. It was, the Herald said, “the turning point of the game”. NSW scored another 178 runs by stumps, without losing another wicket.
“And the strange part of the story is that the biffing and banging were not done by the little man of might,” said The Referee, “but by the colt making his first appearance in first-class cricket.” Callaway cut hard past point, came down the pitch to hit “whizzing off-drives past mid-off and over cover”. Soon “the ball hummed to all parts of the field at an extraordinary pace”. Macartney, the great attacking bat, told the boy “You go right ahead; I’ll keep my end up.” Callaway made his first 50 runs in 67 minutes, then went from 50 to 100 in another half-hour. He brought up his ton with “a magnificent straight drive that landed on the pickets at the far end”.
At stumps “Hay’s knickerbocker champion” was 125 not out. Macartney had 57. “Callaway’s display was one of the finest ever seen from a colt”, said the Herald. They compared him to great names from old days, Massie, McLaren and Noble. “He should develop into one of the best players in Australia,” agreed The Referee. On Saturday Macartney was out for 103 but Callaway eased past 150 and on towards 200. He was dropped once at deep point, then again at mid-off, survived a missed stumping too. Just before lunch he brought up his double hundred. He finally fell soon after, caught at slip for 207, in three and a half hours of batting.
And then, just like that, the season ended. Queensland were bowled out for 100, so NSW did not get to bat again. And while Norman played a few more games for Waverley, the first-class cricket was over – not just for that season but the four that followed, suspended during the first world war.
Trumper died that June. If Australia, and Sydney, had lost one great batsman, some were sure they had found another. “Though he has nothing like the range of strokes of Trumper, his long, free-swinging drive with the beautiful follow-through is a reminder of the Nonpareil’s methods,”, said ‘Nyren’ in The Referee. “He is like the late Victor Trumper in that he invariably attacks the bowling,” agreed The Mirror, “and like that late, great cricketer, he has also a beautiful ‘swing’, the bat generally describing three parts of a circle and finishing well over the left shoulder.”
Now Norman Callaway was 20, and had found his calling. Only it was not as a cricketer or in his day job as a clerk. On Tuesday 27 June, 1916, he enlisted in the army. A friend remembered that Norman had wanted to join the artillery but they had more recruits than they could take. “Oh well,” Norman said, “I’ll go in the footsloggers. I can’t hang around for a few weeks doing nothing.” He even lied about his age, added a year on to it so he wouldn’t need his parents’ permission to enlist. On 7 October 1916 Private Norman Callaway, 5794, embarked on the SS Ceramic and sailed to England.
Norman Callaway went over the top on 3 May 1917, 100 years ago this month, at Bullecourt, during the Battle of Arras. He never came back. No one knows exactly what happened but Private Alec Matthews said that Callaway had the top of his head blown off by a shell soon after they started over. “He fell across me. I was so shocked that at the time I never thought of taking his disc or paybook or any proof of identity.” Norman was 21. His body was never found. He was reported missing in June, confirmed dead in November.
They have had a lot of good cricketers in Hay, before the first world war and since. For a long time, whenever a local boy started scoring runs, the papers would compare him to another, one who had played like Trumper for the Public School, scored hundreds in Sydney first grade and who, over two sunny days at the SCG, made a glorious double century in the only three hours of first class batting life allowed him. But none of the others lived up to it. There never was, never would or will be, another quite like Norman Callaway. That kid could really play. It was the one thing everyone in Hay agreed on.
Norman Callaway’s first-class record: Matches: 1. Innings: 1. Runs: 207. Highest Score: 207. Average 207.

This is an extract taken from the Spin, the Guardian’s weekly cricket email. To subscribe, just visit this page and follow the instructions
The statement made by the Arsenal majority owner, Stan Kroenke – after the club failed for the first time in 20 years to finish in the Premier League top four – was clinically short, utterly unemotional, yet for all that, distinctly revealing of his motivation for involvement in the club.
The US-based owner was, as usual, not at the Emirates Stadium on Sunday, where he would have found himself in a vortex of sourness and seen protest banners including the one describing him as a “leech”. His response was not the reaction of a man with Arsenal or even football in his veins, but a brief, two-sentence statement to the stock exchange.
Even that was not a reaction to the final-day shakeout of the league table, in which Manchester City and Liverpool claimed the final two qualification places behind Chelsea and Arsenal’s keenest rivals, Tottenham Hotspur, for next season’s Champions League. Instead it was a blunt and somewhat insensitive clarification three days after the leaking of Friday’s news that he had turned down a £1bn offer for his 67% shareholding from the Russian-Uzbek billionaire Alisher Usmanov, himself a 30% stakeholder.
The fact that a rare Kroenke public utterance, at this era-defining moment of slippage from the Champions League, was a brisk matter of money told its own story. That he should say of his corporate vehicle KSE [Kroenke Sports Enterprises] UK, that its shares in Arsenal “are not, and never have been, for sale” was odd and uneasily phrased. The next sentence, according to Tim Payton of the Arsenal Supporters Trust, gave it away: “KSE is a committed, long-term investor in Arsenal and will remain so.” That self-description as an “investor” drove home many of the frustrations with him among supporters encapsulated by the “leech” banner. “That said it all, in that short statement,” Payton said, “he’s an investor, involved in the club to make money.”
The US always had a commercialised system of sports, in which rich owners buy franchises in closed leagues, aiming in the modern era to see the values of their initial investments inflated by TV and broadcasting dollars, and the tickets, merchandising and food bought by the fans in the stadiums. Arsenal supporters who look over the Atlantic at their owners’ franchises will not see much inspiration on the field, with middling or struggling performances in the most recent seasons for the LA Rams in the NFL, Colorado Rapids in the MLS, Colorado Avalanche in the NHL and Denver Nuggets in the NBA.
English football for a century featured mostly the rough compromise by which rich men did own shares and put some money in if needed, did not take money out and presented themselves as “custodians” of institutions we still call clubs even now. Arsenal were the acme of this culture, unusually upper class, with generations of shareholders never making a penny for themselves through long and successful tenures. It can be forgotten that the toxic stand-off now between Kroenke’s inert, absentee regime and Usmanov – presenting himself as a fan in the corporate box who would spend big money on players and win things – came about because the inheritors of the old Arsenal tradition cashed in.
David Dein, the former vice-chairman whose football nous is still commonly said to be missed in today’s corporate operation, began by selling his stake to Usmanov for £75m after he was marched out of the door, oddly, for encouraging Kroenke to buy into the club. The sitting Arsenal shareholders, led by the late Danny Fiszman, took against Usmanov amid unease about his backstory and decided a sale to Kroenke, an American corporate sports franchise owner who married into the Walmart family, was preferable.
Kroenke paid the unholy fortune to them in April 2011, £11,750 per Arsenal share. Lady Nina Bracewell-Smith, who inherited her stake from her great grandfather-in-law, Sir Bracewell Smith, made £116m. Fiszman, who was terminally ill by then, made £159.5m from two sales to Kroenke. Peter Hill-Wood, the then chairman, took home £4.7m.
Arsenal shares were trading at £18,000 on Monday, despite the beleaguered Arsène Wenger falling short of Champions League qualification and the tortured air about the club. That is a £6,250 increase for Kroenke on each share in six years, a very good return for an investor, if not for supporters burning with desire to reclaim the Premier League title last won by Wenger 13 years ago.
People wondering why Kroenke should turn down the fine profit represented by Usmanov’s offer, a £565m gain on the £435m his 67% is calculated to have cost him in total, are missing what Kroenke sees. Even without the Champions League riches, football’s TV billions, which attracted the US investors to buy Premier League clubs, are on an upward trajectory. This is only the first year of the Premier League’s own £8.4bn TV deals from 2016-19. Uefa starts its next Champions and Europa League cycle from 2018-21 projecting similar uplifts.
Interest in and appetite for the Premier League is still growing around the world and the always elusive moment of breaking America is edging closer. Kroenke, across an ocean in a different time zone and happy to describe himself as an investor, is a long way away from selling yet.
Unquestionably the Premier League’s dominant tactical trend was the three-man defence. A remarkable 17 of the 20 sides started with a back three at some point in the season, with only Southampton, West Bromwich and Burnley doggedly sticking to a back four.
Its overwhelming popularity was largely down to the influence of Antonio Conte at Chelsea. His decision to switch to a three-man defence in the second half of the 3-0 defeat by Arsenal in September proved a turning point and is arguably the most significant tactical decision in the Premier League’s history. Chelsea’s subsequent run of 13 successive victories, the first six without conceding a single goal, was the main reason for their title success.
Chelsea’s system was flexible – at times it looked as if the wing-backs were part of the defence, at other points in the midfield line, but it was most effective when Victor Moses and Marcos Alonso pushed forward aggressively and effectively formed a front five with Pedro Rodríguez, Diego Costa and Eden Hazard. Teams found it impossible to cope with their back four being overloaded, with Chelsea’s wing-backs regularly popping up unmarked at the far post to convert when the opposition had been dragged to the opposite flank.
Ronald Koeman’s Everton were thrashed 5-0 at Stamford Bridge when attempting to match Chelsea’s shape but opponents often found themselves faring better when deploying wing-backs. Pep Guardiola’s unusual 3-2-4-1 system should have beaten Chelsea at the Etihad but Chelsea fought back and recorded a 3-1 victory, their most important win of the campaign. Chelsea’s winning run was ended in January by Spurs, who also played 3-4-3.
By spring even Arsène Wenger was playing a three-man defence for the first time in 20 years. Arsenal took inspiration from Chelsea, who had changed system in the first place because of a defeat to Arsenal. Saturday’s FA Cup final will be 3-4-3 against 3-4-3, a fitting summary of this domestic campaign.
While many of the bottom-half clubs remained focused on dropping deep and staying solid in two banks of four, the general trend for the bigger sides was to press aggressively in more advanced positions. Although it was relatively rare to see a full-pitch press in the Premier League, midfield zones have become based around regaining the ball as much as retaining it.
Mauricio Pochettino’s Tottenham remained the Premier League’s most cohesive, efficient pressing side. With Jan Vertonghen and Toby Alderweireld happy playing in an advanced defensive line, and Victor Wanyama recruited for his ball-winning ability in front of the back four, Tottenham were even more defensively solid than last season, conceding only 26 goals.
Jürgen Klopp’s Liverpool press in a different manner, counter-pressing to regain possession immediately after the ball is lost. They are also excellent at boxing teams in towards the flanks, shifting almost their entire side over to one touchline. On regaining possession they look to spread play and knock quick-passing combinations into attack, which occasionally worked excellently.
A few years ago, when Barcelona and Spain’s possession football was at its most revered, Premier League midfielders played calm roles, keeping their shape and using possession with care. Now everything has become considerably more frantic, based around constant sprinting, closing down and blocking off passing angles. The physical demands are extraordinary and it is notable Chelsea – like Leicester the previous season – had the benefit of no European football.
Quality in possession has taken something of a backseat and it is significant N’Golo Kante was voted the PFA player of the year. Ball-winning has rarely been so vaunted.

At one stage it seemed the Premier League was on course to beat the division’s record for the highest number of goals per game. In the end it fell narrowly short, finishing on 2.80 goals per game, 0.01 short of the record set in 2011-12.
But whether or not the record was broken is largely irrelevant – the main story is the average has returned to its level of a few years ago. Between 2009-10 and 2013-14 the goals-per-game average was at its highest rate, a steady spell of 2.77, 2.80, 2.81, 2.80 and 2.77. It then dropped to 2.57 and 2.70 for the last two seasons.
This season’s rise underlines that the majority of Premier League teams have generally played positive football. Perhaps only Middlesbrough, Sunderland and Watford were unduly negative – others may have defended deep but usually offered a sufficient counterattacking threat too.
The high goals-per-game ratio was also a reflection of the inequality in the division. The 15-point gap between seventh-placed Everton and eighth-placed Southampton was notable but more significant is the fact the top seven recorded goal-difference figures of +18 or more, and everyone else managed -7 or less.
The final day of the season, when the top four sides defeated the bottom four sides by an aggregate scoreline of 20-2, rather underlined the disparity and, while a high goals-per-game rate is usually celebrated as a good thing, it is worth considering the numbers in more detail. Often it is simply a sign of inequality, whereas the Premier League has marketed itself as a league where anyone can beat anyone.
Petra Kvitova is set to play at Wimbledon less than seven months after she was stabbed by an intruder at her home.
The 26-year-old, who required four hours of surgery to her playing hand after the December attack in Prostejov in the Czech Republic, could even be ready to play in the French Open, which begins in Paris on Sunday.
“She is on track for Wimbledon,” Katie Spellman, Kvitova’s publicity manager, said on Tuesday. “She will make a last-minute decision about [playing at] Roland Garros.”
Kvitova, the left-hander who won Wimbledon in 2011 and 2014, will be included on the entry list for the championships, which will be released on Wednesday. The tournament begins on 3 July.
The former world No1 Victoria Azarenka is also planning to play at Wimbledon following the birth of her son. The 27-year-old has not competed since last year’s French Open and gave birth to Leo in December. “Leo kinda said he wants to see London and Wimbledon,” she said.
Azarenka is planning to play in one of the warm-up events before Wimbledon. She is eligible to retain her ranking as world No6 if she is ready to play her first tournament within 12 months of giving birth.
It was a mixed day for British tennis in the first round of the women’s French Open qualifying, meanwhile.
Naomi Broady fell to a straight-sets defeat at the hands of Switzerland’s Jil Teichmann while Heather Watson came from a set down to beat Anastasiya Komardina and progress to the second round.
Broady was broken four times as she was brushed aside by the world No153 in a 6-4, 6-2 loss in Paris, but there was better news for the British No2 Watson, who followed her compatriot on court six with a 3-6, 7-5, 6-1 victory over her Russian opponent.
The 25-year-old was broken three times as she lost the opening set but soon fought back to level the match in a tense second set with a decisive break in the 12th game having trailed 4-3 and a break down.
But the Guernsey-born player breezed through the deciding set and finished the match in emphatic fashion by losing only four points in her final four games to seal a second-round tie with the Czech Republic’s Tereza Smitkova.
Fellow Briton Tara Moore gets her campaign under way with a first-round match with Chang Kai-chen on Wednesday morning. Players must win three qualifying rounds to reach the first round proper, the draw for which is set to be made on Friday.
The early abandonment at Wantage Road handed Nottinghamshire the point they needed to join Worcestershire and Yorkshire in progressing from the North Group of the Royal London One-Day Cup. It also took the wind out of the sails of Durham, Leicestershire and Lancashire, all of whom might have squeaked in as the last round of matches started. It’ll be scant consolation for him, but Lanky’s Jordan Clark ended the group stage with the best strike rate of batsman scoring over 250 runs (143), a sentiment that might be shared by rock-bottom Warwickshire’s veteran spinner, Jeetan Patel, whose economy rate of 5.12 was the lowest among bowlers taking at least 10 wickets.
With only Essex dodging the weather in the South Group, their win over Kent consolidating their position at the top of the table to earn a semi-final slot, Somerset and Surrey went into the eliminators with their North group counterparts. Despite having had a thin time of it lately, Kent’s white ball specialist, Alex Blake, took the batting honours in the South Group with a strike rate of 158, with Jade Dernbach’s economy rate of 3.8 just edging out Toby Roland-Jones as best of the bowlers. After a four week break (nobody is quite sure why), the tournament resumes with the knockout stage on 13 June.
Just 12 points cover the top four in Division One of the County Championship, with Essex capitalising on Alastair Cook’s availability to lead the ladder having been promoted last season. Ryan ten Doeschate’s men simply hammered Hampshire (reprieved relegation last year, but I’m going to the Rose Bowl on Saturday, so I can’t say anything unkind) in just over 200 overs cricket. While runs don’t look a problem for Essex, the question for 2017 was always about who would take the 103 Championship wickets delivered by those retired old foxes, David Masters and Graham Napier. Well, Matthew Quinn and Jamie Porter showed plenty of promise last year and combined to take 10-124 in this match. The two 24-year-olds will learn much from Neil Wagner and (can it be possible to say this?) the veteran Ravi Bopara, and will get plenty of overs if they can stay fit.
Weather and some obdurate batting led to draws in the other three Division One matches. At Lord’s, Surrey’s somewhat imbalanced attack (Tom Curran, Sam Curran, Mark “Hot” Footitt and Stuart Meaker look like four new ball specialists with nobody to do a Peter Siddle job as third seamer) proved a notch or two below Middlesex’s, with two more potential England men, Toby Roland-Jones and Tom Helm, a very classy opening pair. Ultimately, it didn’t matter though, because Kumar Sangakkara walked past his portrait in the Long Room and did not stride back until he had stroked twin centuries, the ageless master half a dozen notches above his fellow batsmen. Two more needed now for a century of centuries in First Class and List A cricket – standing ovations can be cheap these days, but his will be richly deserved when it arrives.
Worcestershire squeezed the only positive result this week in Division Two (basement dwellers, Durham and Sussex, started their match on Sunday) to go three for three, as they say stateside. Hapless Derbyshire (played three, lost three) were swept aside once openers Daryl Mitchell and Brett D’Oliviera had replied to the home side’s 275 with 243 runs of their own. Joe Leach added five second innings wickets to his four in the first to lead his team to a very comfortable innings win. Australia’s greatest ever finger spinner and ninth on their all-time wicket-taking list, Nathan Lyon, picked up a couple of scalps, but was barely needed (or noticed) at all.
Hitherto unstoppable Nottinghamshire looked like making it four wins in a row when Chris Read invited Glamorgan to follow on, 361 behind with two whole days to play. But Division Two cricket proved itself tougher than some (including me) say, as the Welsh county (if not quite Welshmen) dug in for an old-fashioned stalemate. Skipper Jacques Rudolph set the tone with 14 made in an hour and a half, before fellow countrymen, Colin Ingram and Chris Cooke, batted out the last day (yes, the last day) with the former racking up nearly ten hours at the crease for his 155 not out. Stuart Broad had figures of 34-10-55-0 in Glamorgan’s second innings, which may or may not please Andrew Strauss, As for Broad, he’s probably sick of the sight of South Africans already and the First Test doesn’t start until July.
• This is an article from the The 99.94 Cricket Blog• Follow Gary Naylor on Twitter
Marc Overmars knew he was watching something special when he first laid eyes on Kasper Dolberg. Jens Steffensen, a former Denmark international who has been Dolberg’s agent for more than four years, recalls: “After one day of his trial, he said to me: ‘We want to sign him.’ We went inside to phone Kasper’s parents and discuss what to do – but it didn’t take long to decide because Ajax has such a long history of Danish players coming through the system; we chose them. It was a very good match. His personal trainer now is Dennis Bergkamp.”
Little more than two years on, Ajax’s technical director has been proven right. Dolberg, a 19-year-old powerfully built forward from Silkeborg, has excelled in Peter Bosz’s thrilling young side, scoring 16 goals in the Eredivisie and another six from nine starts in the Europa League. An impudent finish in the 3-1 defeat by Lyon in the second leg of the semi-final, dinking the ball over the goalkeeper and top-spinning it into the net to elude the despairing defender’s lunge, proved vital as Ajax booked their place in Wednesday’s final against Manchester United with a 5-4 aggregate victory.
Not for the first time this season, comparisons were made to a strapping teenager who made his mark in the famous red and white shirt 35 years earlier. After Dolberg’s 18-minute hat-trick against NEC in November, consisting of two trademark strikes with his right foot and a clever angled header, even Dolberg’s father, Flemming Rasmussen – like Dolberg’s mother, Kirsten Dolberg, a former professional handball player in Denmark – could not resist.
“I see many similarities with Marco van Basten,” he said, noting his son had just broken the 1988 European Championship winner’s hat-trick record by four minutes. “If he goes like him that’s very good of course. They are the same size, same speed and both have a good shot.”
Dolberg was spotted playing for his local side GFG Voel when he was 12. Having alternated between handball and football as child, he settled on the latter and joined Silkeborg’s academy. Still painfully shy, however, he initially struggled to settle and returned to Voel. A year later he was persuaded to go back.
“We signed Kasper when he was a 15-year-old boy,” says Steffensen, who owns the Scandinavian Soccer agency. “I played for six years in the Bundesliga and in the same Denmark team as Allan Simonsen and John Sivebaek, so I know a bit about talented players.
“He already had nearly everything at that time. He had speed, a fantastic eye for the game, ability with both feet, free-kicks. His game in the air was not that good but when you have that speed you can learn how to jump properly.
“But with young players, it always depends on what is inside his head.”
In 2009 another young Danish striker also appeared to have the world at his feet. “Within five years I want to be the top scorer in the Premier League and I want to be known as a world-class striker,” Nicklas Bendtner, who now plays in Norway for Rosenborg, told the Guardian eight years ago. “And it will happen. Trust me, it will happen.”
There appears little chance of Dolberg making the same mistakes as the former Arsenal striker. In an interview with the Danish national broadcasters DR in October, the softly spoken teenager said his preference was “to remain in the background” – a trait his father believes his son has inherited from him.
“He can come across as indifferent, nonchalant or even cold but that can be deceptive,” Rasmussen said. “When he is on the pitch and facing competition he will think, deep down, that he will get the better of that opponent.”
Steffensen says: “Kasper is a very quiet person and his feet are always one metre in the ground. It’s important to have that connection to earth.”
After Dolberg made his debut for Silkeborg in May 2015 and starred for Denmark’s Under-19s, Wolfsburg contacted Steffensen that summer and arranged for him to attend a trial. John Steen Olsen, Ajax’s celebrated Scandinavian scout whose long list of discoveries includes Jan Molby, Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Christian Eriksen, had also spotted something and asked the agent not to make hasty decisions. It was the prospect of working with Bergkamp, who has been entrusted with bringing through young players to the first-team squad, that was the most persuasive argument.
“Danish players have almost the same mentality as the Dutch people,” Steffensen says. “You can count on the fact that they are team players and also have very good technical ability when they are young. But because the domestic competition is not as strong as other countries you need to find the right place to step up to the next level.
“When Kasper came to Ajax he was a left winger. But Marc Overmars told us that he thought he could be a fantastic No9. He put Bergkamp and Kasper together and we have seen the results ever since.”
Ajax paid €270,000 to sign Dolberg but, at first, his progress was steady not spectacular. After some promising appearances in the Uefa Youth League, he was invited to last summer’s pre-season training camp in Turkey by Bosz and forced his way into the first-team reckoning, signing a five-year contract before he had made his senior debut.
“We knew that he would get to this level … but to be there so quickly was a surprise for us,” Steffensen says. “In the last few years he has really started to develop physically and I think that is one of his strongest assets now. He’s also very calm; he believes so much in himself. Kasper has a natural instinct going forward but is not a selfish player.”
The cushioned backheel pass into the path of Davy Klaassen in the away leg of the last-16 tie against Copenhagen in March illustrated that. Bergkamp has been encouraging Dolberg to shoot more often in recent months, although the influence of the man who remains in the top five of the Premier League’s all-time list for assists is clear to see.
At the end of the second leg against Lyon the average age of Ajax’s side was 20. Inevitable comparisons have been made to Louis van Gaal’s 1995 European Cup winners for a team also containing the Chelsea loanee Bertrand Traoré, the German winger Amin Younes and the 17-year-old defender Matthijs de Ligt, plus others including Patrick Kluivert’s 18-year-old son Justin.
“It’s a really fantastic job they are doing,” Steffensen says. “They take the young players and give them a chance to come into the first team. Of course, the level in Holland is not like in England but still it is a good level of football. It’s important that they are given a chance, not only for one or two matches but for a long period of time, so they have a proper chance to adapt.”
Dolberg, who is renting a flat on his own in Amsterdam after staying with a host family during his first year in the Netherlands, remains very close to his parents. They have been in touch even more regularly in recent weeks as speculation over his future spirals, although his assertion last week that he will stay put this summer will have been music to the ears of Overmars and co.
“We’ve had interest from all over Europe, especially from England,” Steffensen says. “All of the top clubs in England have been in touch – and in Spain as well. Everything depends on Ajax. He has a contract with them until 2021 but I don’t know what they want to do. They have not given me any indication how much it would cost to buy him.”
Anything north of £30m, if the latest speculation is to be believed. Manchester City have been scouting Dolberg since last season and appear to be the most keen. Steffensen may not earn a penny from any transfer. He says he has an exclusive contract to represent Dolberg, which expires next summer, with the Dutch agents SEG International ready to step in.
“With such a player there will always be competition from other agents but that is actually the name of the game,” Steffensen says. “I was the same when I was a young player because I got into the first team as a 17-year-old, so I know how it works. If Kasper decides to stay with us in Scandinavian Soccer or if he decides to go with another big agency then we will wish him all the best in the world. We found him and put him into the way that he as to go. He has kept focused all the way, so he deserves to be a success.”
As for whether Dolberg will suffer from nerves when he runs out to face José Mourinho’s United at Stockholm’s Friends Arena, you can probably guess the answer.
“No, no, no,” Steffensen says. “It is like any other match. He will do what he can and hopefully it will go well – but he’s not nervous at all. He never is.”
André Onana
Goalkeeper Born: 2 April 1996
Cameroon is producing a number of promising goalkeepers and the emergence of Onana is a credit to the Samuel Eto’o Foundation in Douala, where he played until the age of 13. A five-year spell at Barcelona ended when he decided he “had to leave to grow as a player” and his rise in stature since arriving at Ajax in January 2015 has been rapid. At 6ft 3in Onana is a commanding presence with excellent reflexes. His cousin Fabrice Ondoa, also a goalkeeper, is four months his senior and was one of the stars in Cameroon’s Africa Cup of Nations triumph in February.
Davinson Sánchez
Centre-back Born: 12 June 1996
The scouts have been out in force for Sánchez, a Colombian centre-back who had been coveted by Barcelona before choosing to join Ajax from Atlético Nacional last summer. His reason for moving to the Netherlands was that first-team football would be easier to come by; sure enough, he fitted into Peter Bosz’s side immediately and has been a cornerstone of this Europa League run. Sánchez is powerful and composed in possession; his captain, Davy Klaassen, says he is a “beast” and he is likely to be dominating attackers in one of the continent’s biggest leagues soon. Barça remain keen.
Davy Klaassen
Attacking midfielder Born: 21 February 1993
It says plenty for the youthfulness of Ajax’s lineup that, at 24, Klaassen seems like its elder statesman. His leadership skills are not in doubt but the Ajax captain is himself a work in progress and one that a number of top clubs around Europe would like to see improve on their watch. Klaassen, who is Ajax through and through, having emerged from the club’s academy, is a dynamic attacking midfielder who is perfect for driving the tempo Bosz demands. His goalscoring record reflects a well-honed sense of timing and his vision on the ball stands up to most, too. He would appear well suited to the Premier League.
Hakim Ziyech
Attacking midfielder Born: 19 March 1993
Ziyech is perhaps the most vaunted of Ajax’s creative forces and had been linked with a number of European clubs before moving to Amsterdam from Twente a year ago. A technically outstanding playmaker who is at his best in the area behind the striker, the Moroccan international – who was born in the Netherlands and came through at Heerenveen – makes the attack tick through his dribbling and his ability to pick the right pass. Ziyech, 24, also takes an excellent left-footed set piece but the assists come from all over the pitch and stopping him may be key to Manchester United’s hopes of victory.
Amin Younes
Winger Born: 6 August 1993
Younes, who will start on the left side of attack, has been named in Germany’s Confederations Cup squad and that is ample reward for the progress he has made since joining from Borussia Mönchengladbach in July 2015. The 23-year-old had not quite made the grade there, despite a number of Bundesliga appearances, but has pushed on at Ajax and boasted the best take-on figures in this season’s Eredivisie. He has been decisive in the Europa League, scoring twice past Celta Vigo and at the death against Schalke before netting the third of Ajax’s four semi-final first-leg goals against Lyon. Nick Ames
In the aftermath of Dwight Gayle’s goal for Newcastle United against Barnsley this month, a second cheer rang around St James’ Park. DeAndre Yedlin quickly flicked his gaze towards the home dugout in the hope the noise signified a late equalizer for Aston Villa against title challenging Brighton — it did.
“Yeah, for sure, [it’s the most surreal game I’ve played in],” Yedlin told the Guardian afterwards, a league winner’s medal around his neck. “I heard a few cheers, one at the beginning of the game, and then the Barnsley fans were cheering [Brighton’s goal] and then at the end of the game it was odd because everyone was just silent. I didn’t know the game [at Villa Park] hadn’t ended yet, so everyone was waiting anxiously. It was such a relief when I heard everyone going crazy and to win it like that.”
Euphoria and the Championship title followed in the rollercoaster that was Newcastle’s first full season under Rafa Benítez. Yedlin has gained much needed stability under the Spaniard, even if his move to Tyneside arrived directly after a spell with rivals Sunderland.
“I mean, obviously there’s a rivalry, but the way I see it I was a Sunderland player on loan and this [Newcastle] is my new team now,” he said. “I’m fortunate that Newcastle and the fans welcomed me with open arms because I know it’s not easy being a former Sunderland player. I have to say thanks to them for that. I wasn’t nervous at all though [about joining Newcastle]. At the end of the day this is my team now and I’m glad to be here.”
Newcastle fans are also glad Yedlin is at St James’ Park. The 23-year-old is a defender with attacking intent, using his speed and technique to influence the game at both ends of the field. Those skills have made him perfect for a Newcastle side that thrives on the counter-attack. A contender for the best full-back in the division, Yedlin’s qualities have not been lost on supporters or his team-mates.
“I didn’t know too much [about him when he arrived],” team-mate Ayoze Perez told the Guardian. “All I knew was he played in Sunderland last year and before that in Tottenham. I never saw him play, but I got surprised when I saw how good he can be. He’s a very good defender, but a great person as well. Sometimes he makes you feel calm when you know he is around, because of that speed. He defends really good as well. He takes advantage of his speed, and has given a lot of assists this season, and that is a plus for our team to have that kind of right-back it means a lot. It can make a lot of difference.”
Previously, critics have questioned Yedlin’s defensive abilities, but a match-up with Eden Hazard at the 2014 World Cup showcased Yedlin’s potential to defend. Although this season has not seen him face the caliber of Hazard, it has still seen Yedlin tested. It is a challenge the 23-year-old has risen to, and Yedlin is keen to note the influence of his teammates.
“Playing regularly always improves your game, but so does being in competition with a guy like Vurnon [Anita],” he said. “You can learn from him every day. He’s a very professional guy both on and off the field, so I’ve tried to absorb as much as I can from his game. Little things, just like the way he moves, the way his character is, because I think he’s a top professional.”
Yedlin has been forced to share first-team opportunities with Anita this season — a consequence of Benítez’s rotation policy. The Spaniard is a methodical manager. Last summer, before he signed Isaac Hayden from Arsenal, Benítez spent two hours explaining how he thought Hayden’s game could improve. Yedlin underwent a similar evaluation, and believes it has improve his game.
“I think he has been good for me,” he said. “I think he’s just made me a more complete player. He’s given me advice on picking better times to go forward, and picking times when to stay back. Obviously positioning, both attacking and defensively, I’m very fortunate to have him as a manager.”
Yedlin feels confident in his position, but knows full well next season will see him tested again. Benítez has been promised a healthy transfer budget, and is expected to add over half-a-dozen new faces to the squad. Regardless, Yedlin welcomes the competition.
“If you don’t want competition, I think it means you’re scared and you can get a little bit comfortable,” he said. “You never want to be too comfortable because that’s when you start to get complacent and start doing those little stupid things and getting too relaxed. Competition all over the field is great. I don’t know what will happen in the summer [with new signings] but I’m just looking forward to get back with the team.”
This summer promises to be a big one for Yedlin both at club level and internationally. The defender is likely to be involved when Bruce Arena selects a squad for World Cup Qualifiers in June and the Gold Cup in July. It will be a testing time for the US Men’s National Team, and Yedlin is hopeful he can carry his winning mentality from Newcastle with him into camp.
“I think at least individually I have a lot of momentum heading into the summer,” he said. “I’ve got to stay fit, stay prepared, because we have a big qualifier coming up against Mexico so I have to stay prepared for that, but I still have a job to do in the summer.”
If Yedlin could secure wins against Mexico and Trinidad & Tobago, as well as a medal at the Gold Cup, it would cap off a fantastic 12 months. It also seems apt that a man that moves at such speed on the pitch has such a fast-paced life off it. Able to squeeze in a brief holiday before things restart, Yedlin is wise to rest up, as things only look like they will be more hectic for the defender during his second year on Tyneside.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Most pundits do not get as much time to hold forth as Carragher does on Sky Sports, especially on Monday nights, but Carragher has earned his platform. He has a strong all-round game: his tactical explanations are usually interesting and he has a keen eye for players’ strengths and weaknesses. He also has a mischievous humour that can prick the pomposity of others. Not always concise but unfailingly candid, he made memorable criticisms this season of Liverpool’s goalkeepers, Leicester’s players – which he followed up online with Danny Simpson – and Arsenal’s so-called son-in-laws (“what father would want his daughter to bring one of them home?”)
Neville retuned to Sky Sports in earnest this season after his managerial misadventures and confirmed that he remains a shrewd judge and an exceptionally clear communicator, on-screen at least. Whether in the gantry or the studio his insights were always well delivered and worth hearing. His stabs at management seem to have reinforced his solidarity for the men in the dugout and he became a rare ally of Arsène Wenger when even Jamie Carragher suggested it was time for the Frenchman to leave Arsenal. “There isn’t a part of me that wants Arsenal to replace Wenger when the club have supported him for so many years,” he said. “I feel very uncomfortable suggesting the grass may be greener and that he should move on.”
Keane’s stock-in-trade is not so much telling it like it is as telling it how he thinks it should be, which means full-blooded and flimflam-free. When he appears on ITV it is not to deliver sharp insights but to denounce laziness, poor concentration, selfies, goalscoring celebrations and cowardly tackling. That inevitably made “shameful” Arsenal a regular target this season even though they are a team with “only two decent players”. Despite being predictable Keane is at his best when giving the impression that he is pursuing his own blood feuds, which is why he is particularly entertaining when holding forth on Jose Mourinho’s Manchester United. “I’m sick to death of him â€¦ maybe the club’s too big for him,” he ventured after hearing Mourinho’s complaints about United’s injuries and fixture list.
He has improved a lot. Granted, he had set the bar very low but now he is worth listening to and one can imagine him being consistently interesting even if the BBC were to give him as much time as Sky Sports give to their main pundits. As it is, his brief contributions on Match of the Day this season were often instructive, whereas in the past they reeked of laziness. Memorable segments this season included a short piece in praise of Hull City’s Harry Maguire and the good use he made of footage of Swansea City’s defeat at Manchester United in November to back up his claim that the Welsh team’s players were guilty of “the most abject, embarrassing 45 minutes of football I have seen in a long, long time from any team at any level.”
BT Sport have really missed a trick with their panel of pundits, most of whom are dreadful. Rio Ferdinand can be decent but Hargreaves stands out because he is very knowledgeable, especially of players and managers who have come from outside England. He is also quite idiosyncratic, insofar as he shares his acumen in an understated way but also has a tendency towards laughable hyperbole when describing an impressive shot or passage of play – but that latter trait comes across as child-like enthusiasm rather than cynical hyping.
A relatively recent addition to the punditocracy, the former defender is an intelligent and unpretentious analyst with seemingly sincere enthusiasm for spreading understanding. He is particularly strong on tactics but has a solid all-round game.
The mood at the British and Irish Lions stately training base in Maynooth, County Kildare was neatly reflected by the two dozen swans on the lake beside the endless winding drive leading up to Carton House. Serene on the surface but paddling frantically underneath to keep up will be the Lions default setting for the next few weeks, particularly in the wake of the gloomy news about Billy Vunipola’s tour-ending shoulder injury.
No man, as we all know, is bigger than his team, particularly when he has not yet worn the jersey. But Billy V? Not the Saracen tank who has been steamrollering all-comers, until the weekend at any rate. Not now. What a massive hole his absence leaves in Warren Gatland’s planning.
It was impossible, consequently, to ignore the elephant-sized issue in the room as the coach held court beneath the chandeliers. Perhaps the only other player whose exit would cause a comparable groan is Owen Farrell, presently a prime candidate for both the 10 and 12 jerseys. Gatland did his best to look on the bright side, grateful to have as many as 30 players in Ireland courtesy of last weekend’s defeats of Saracens and Leinster.
Only four individuals – Jonathan Sexton, Sean O’Brien, Rhys Webb and Ken Owens – were restricted to static bikes while the rest of the squad embarked on what will be a crucial week of training. In less than a week from now they will be on the plane to New Zealand; there is general acknowledgment they could do with another fortnight’s preparation time at least.
Gatland knows this better than anyone but it is too late now to do much about it. All the conditioning staff could do was drag the other bruised Saracens off to the cryotherapy chamber in an attempt to fast-track their recoveries. “We’re trying to cover an eight-week pre-season in about two weeks, so having players we didn’t expect to have is a huge bonus for us,” said the coach. Everyone’s spirits are willing; hopefully their bodies will eventually follow.
Sadly, though, the Vunipola setback recalls the premature injuries which undermined the Lions last expedition to New Zealand in 2005; to Lawrence Dallaglio against the Bay of Plenty in Rotorua and Brian O’Driscoll in the first Test in Christchurch. Psychologically the ripple effect was significant in both cases, even if the outcome of the series would almost certainly have remained the same.
The only positive is that at least Vunipola’s exit has taken place before the squad have flown out. It tends to be harder to stay coolly philosophical when you are in a small New Zealand town, the rain sluicing down, when you have just lost to a local provincial team and one of your key Test totems is sitting head bowed and distraught in the lobby. The big No8 has been spared the never-ending flight home too.
And as one door closes, another one opens. Anyone who watched Vunipola’s cousin Taulupe Faletau in Bath’s last few games of the season will be aware the Welsh No8 is running back into some form at the right time. CJ Stander and Ross Moriarty will not take a backward step and James Haskell will come stampeding out of every dressing room determined to prove he should have been on the tour in the first place.
The mind also slides back to Rob Howley’s horribly painful shoulder injury in 1997 and the series-turning opportunity that suddenly knocked for Matt Dawson. On the last tour the Lions ended up winning the series with a different captain – Alun Wyn Jones – and a replacement prop – Alex Corbisiero – leading the way. Not all unforeseen events are unfortunate.
Injuries, too, are simply part of rugby: an occupational hazard at all levels. At what point, though, does the attrition rate start to outweigh the attractiveness of the product? The Rugby Players’ Association chose a timely day to announce its membership’s rejection of Premiership Rugby’s plans to extend the domestic season until the end of June; at some point those shaping the sport’s future need to accept player welfare is more than just a couple of glib words to be routinely lobbed into every press release.
The counter argument is that professional rugby union as we know it will be financially unsustainable if the volume of games is reduced. But what price a modern, forward-thinking sport whose principal gladiators are injured before they even step into the ring and are torn between two or three increasingly demanding masters? Corbisiero should be in his prime and running around the green and pleasant acres of County Kildare; instead he is now promoting the game to an American television audience. Maybe, in the long run, that is good news for rugby. Right now, for all the beautiful serenity of the Carton House estate, the 2017 Lions need all the help they can get.
Amid all the weekend’s other excitement Leinster’s defeat by a 14-man Scarlets team on Friday evening did not necessarily receive the widespread attention it merited. The Welsh region were sharper and smarter on the night and those calling for senior Wales squad recognition for James Davies, brother of Jonathan, have every reason to jump up and down on the basis of his efforts in Dublin. Interestingly Davies Jr was equally conspicuous in the GB sevens team at the Rio Olympics last summer; those who reckon sevens does nothing to prepare players for top-level 15s may yet have to reconsider. Should the Scarlets surprise Munster in Saturday’s Pro12 final, it is a good bet the brothers Davies will have played a leading role.
The Aviva Premiership final at Twickenham between Wasps and Exeter Chiefs has all the ingredients of a breathless classic, with both sides committed to pouring forward at every opportunity. They will be doing well, though, if they improve on the try scored on the same pitch by Dan Norton in Sunday’s World Series sevens final. England lost to a never-say-die Scotland but Norton’s masterclass in how to wrong-foot covering defenders is well worth checking out on the web. Over to you, Christian Wade.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Say what you like about Tony Pulis, he knows how to set up his team for a set piece. In the end his West Bromwich Albion side scored 16 times from corners, and conceded just four. The importance of set pieces to the Baggies’ success cannot be overstated: just four teams scored fewer goals from open play, and of those only Burnley haven’t gone down. Chelsea are another fine example: they have enough talent to dominate teams in open play, but it is Antonio Conte’s coaching rather than Roman Abramovich’s millions that has taken a side that score 11 and conceded nine from set pieces last season – an overall +2 set-piece goal differential – and transformed them into one that has scored 22 and conceded seven; from corners alone they have scored 13 and conceded two.
There are many aspects of tactical preparation that are so complicated as to be incomprehensible even to avid fans, but this one isn’t rocket science. Yet Marco Silva has rocketed from obscurity to popularity on the back of an impact at Hull that, while laudable in many respects, has included totally hapless defending at corner kicks. No fewer than 13 top-flight teams have conceded 13 goals or fewer from set pieces all season, a tally that under Alan Pardew Crystal Palace reached before the end of November.
Watford also deserve special mention here: they conceded 202 corners, of which 16 led to goals. In other words, they conceded from 7.9% of all the corners they faced; the next-worst sides – Southampton and Hull – conceded from a considerably superior 5.7% and at the other end of the scale Chelsea conceded from 1.3%, Spurs from 1.5%, Arsenal from 1.6% and West Brom from 1.9% (Jürgen Klopp’s Liverpool conceded from an unimpressive 5.3% of the 133 corners they faced, letting in as many corner goals as let in by Arsenal, Spurs and Chelsea combined). There are many ways of judging a manager, but if a chairman is uncertain and seeking some kind of tiebreaker you could certainly make an argument that a coach who cannot be trusted to get corners right probably cannot be trusted at all.
“The thing that appeals most about it to me is that it’s just a great way to start the weekend,” said Jeff Stelling, as he discussed Sky’s plans for their latest live football slot before the season began. “I can’t think of anything better than going to the pub, having a beer and being able to watch live football on a Friday night.” It turned out, however, that football fans could think of plenty of better things to be doing, and viewing figures were disappointing, while Stelling’s double act with Rachel Riley attracted mixed reviews.
Sky scheduled three Friday night fixtures in the first weeks of the season, then dumped it for four months, showed a game at the end of December and left another four-month gap before they broadcast two crucial late-season matches: West Ham v Tottenham, when the home side’s victory effectively ended the title chase, and West Brom v Chelsea, when the visitors’ coronation was completed. What we have surely learned from this experiment is that the footballing world needs one guaranteed fallow day, and an opportunity for football fans to pretend that they care about their families.
It is time to rethink this law, which has repeatedly and emphatically proven itself beyond useless and is inconsistently applied anyway. A player is booked if he removes his shirt after a goal, but if he removes his shirt as he heads to the tunnel at half or full time, or for that matter because it has been torn or bloodied and he needs a new one, there is no punishment. We either find footballers’ torsos offensive or we don’t, and if the only justification for the inconsistency is that shirt sponsors demand retribution should their logos be absent from post-goal celebration pictures, then the law is more offensive and unsporting than the action it is intended to prevent. Curiously, players are also cautioned for climbing onto an advertising hoarding or perimeter fence to celebrate a goal, even though that would probably bring an advertiser gratefully-received additional publicity.
Running into the crowd creates clear health and safety problems and it is right that players are discouraged from doing it, but this season’s league champions have a manager who regularly buries himself among fans during his exuberant celebrations, in close proximity to and full view of the fourth official – a precisely identical offence to the one that players are punished for every week – and has never once been cautioned as a result. The former official Graham Poll once complained that “showing a yellow card to a goalscorer renders a referee even less popular than he already is, and does nothing to deter the players’ actions. Otherwise they would have stopped doing it by now.”
That was over six years ago, and it still doesn’t work. In Europe’s top five leagues over the last four seasons alone there have been comfortably more than 300 cautions for excessive goal celebrations, with Roberto Firmino the most consistent offender with seven. Poll suggested that players should be fined instead, a punishment that would almost certainly be just as ineffective by way of deterrent, but would at least raise a bit of cash for charity or something.
Here is a simple guide to winning free kicks:
Step one: Win, intercept or get passed the ball.
Step two: Run with ball towards touchline.
Step three: Wait for opponent to come vaguely near you, which will by necessity be from behind as only the touchline, dead space and the stands lie ahead. If necessary, slow down to give them time to catch up.
Step four: Fall over.
This method is successful 95% of the time, and players have figured it out, leading to a lot of wasted time and free-kicks from wide positions. It isn’t so much foolproof as fool-reliant, the fool in question being the referee. The merest nudge, and sometimes not even that, in this clearly contrived position cannot possibly be worthy of a free-kick; someone must point this out to them and they must act upon it. As an alternative, their special outsized goal-line-technology-indicating watches could be slightly modified to provide mild electric shocks every time they cluelessly award this particular kind of set-piece, which should sort the problem out in short order.
The only possible explanation for the use of post-match player tweets on Match of the Day is that after their appearance – and they pop up during the manager interview snippets, just before the studio panellists get their say – their own analysis cannot fail to appear erudite. The players are not to blame here – they have but 140 characters in which to thank or apologise to their team-mates and supporters – but their postings, top-of-the-head tokens of appreciation, are designed to appear in someone’s timeline in the moments following the final whistle before getting rapidly relegated by more recent brief and superficial musings. Five hours later, there seems little reason to reprint them except cruelty. And so it is with reluctant hypocrisy that we feature a handful here, not just hours later but months, gleaned from a couple of random episodes. You may notice that everyone seems terrifically happy, which is no coincidence – at no stage was a defeated player’s posting featured:
• “A good win to end a very good week,” said Jan Vertonghen.
• “Great win to finish the week! Enjoy the weekend,” said César Azpilicueta.
• “Fantastic team performance again!” said Harry Kane.
• “Yet another victory: it was well worth the effort,” said N’Golo Kanté.
• “Great fight to come back and get the win!!!” said Nathaniel Clyne.
• “Three points was the only thing that mattered today! Great feeling,” said Simon Mignolet.
• “It was important to win again keep adding points in this late stage and keep growing as a team. C’mon, City!” said Sergio Agüero.
• “Great win this afternoon! Amazing support from the fans that got us through the game,” said Nathan Redmond.
• “What a win! Unbelievable atmosphere!” said Gini Wijnaldum.
• “Very important three points!” said Christian Fuchs.
• “Glad to score. Let’s keep it up,” said Riyad Mahrez.
• “Great worked win. Let’s keep going boys,” said Oriol Romeu.
• “Incredible character and performance today! Amazing support from our fans as always,” wrote Marc Pugh.
• “Great team performance … two great goals,” said Jason Puncheon.
BBC bigwigs, stop this nonsense now.
The ground has been drying steadily at Brighton since the final declarations for today’s meeting were made on Sunday, but the going is of little account to Roy Rocket (3.50) when he gets the sea air into his nostrils.
John Berry’s grey lost his maiden tag at the 16th attempt back in April 2015 when he raced at Brighton for the first time, and since then he has added five more victories here to his record while without once getting his head in front anywhere else. He has yet to win off a mark as high as today’s 73, which is a slight concern, but his successful return to action last month over one-and-a-half miles was one of his best runs to date and with that race behind him, he should stand every chance of defying a 6lb rise in the weights at a track that suits him so well.
Provoking (4.20) has yet to record at win at Brighton but ran well at the course last month when making his seasonal debut at a mile. He is 2lb lower today and also steps back up to 10 furlongs, which should work in his favour.
At Nottingham, Chelsea’s Boy (3.00) should go well in the stayers’ handicap while Marilyn (3.30) catches the eye at around 8-1 in the fillies’ handicap. She probably needed the run on her seasonal debut at Newmarket’s Craven meeting and could be running off a generous mark on the basis of her success in a maiden at Yarmouth last year.
Kinloch Pride (5.40) has won four of her five starts since the turn of the year but has shown definite improvement with every start and is well worth a bet at around 100-30 to defy another 7lb rise at Newcastle.
Brighton: 2.20 Arabian Jazz, 2.50 Sweet Pursuit, 3.20 Black Bess, 3.50 Roy Rocket (nb), 4.20 Provoking, 4.50 Kefeel, 5.20 Fairy Mist, 5.50 Duke Of North.
Newcastle: 2.10 Muzaahim, 2.40 Broctune Papa Gio, 3.10 Shargiah, 3.40 Master Singer, 4.10 Morning Suit, 4.40 Major Crispies, 5.10 Hamidans Girl, 5.40 Kinloch Pride (nap).
Nottingham: 2.00 Master Grey, 2.30 Angel Palanas, 3.00 Chelsea’s Boy, 3.30 Marilyn, 4.00 Sporting Times, 4.30 Al Nafoorah, 5.00 Corridor Kid.
Hexham: 5.45 New List, 6.15 Apache Pilot, 6.45 Cape Hideaway, 7.15 No Such Number, 7.50 Hattons Hill, 8.20 Cairnshill, 8.50 Bygones For Coins.
Huntingdon: 5.35 New Agenda, 6.05 Lake Chapala, 6.35 Zayfire Aramis, 7.05 Tell The Tale, 7.35 Cobra De Mai, 8.05 Golanova, 8.35 Always Archie.
David Moyes is to play a part in sourcing his successor at Sunderland. It’s the sort of plan that worked so well a few years ago at Manchester United, isn’t it. Names on his list include Ryan Giggs, Nigel Pearson, David Wagner, Alan Pardew, Garry Monk, Aitor Karanka, Slavisa Jokanovic and Paul Lambert. Perhaps Moyes should also consider Sir Alex Ferguson for a job that’s guaranteed to be a world of pain for whoever stupidly agrees to take it, just to see how he likes it.
Meanwhile sprinting out of the Stadium of Light door, as though chasing a ball lumped straight down the middle because his team-mates have no other ideas left: Jermain Defoe. He’s making a break for it, in double-quick time, in the hope of getting as far away from the mess as possible. Bournemouth, 343 miles south, fits the bill perfectly.
More hot managerial news, and the blackboard with the wet sponge hanging beside it at Watford will soon have the words Roger Schmidt scratched lightly on to it. The erstwhile Bayer Leverkusen coach has nothing on for the next couple of months, so it’s all coming together nicely.
To celebrate the 18th anniversary of That Night In Barcelona, Manchester United are planning to do another number on Bayern Munich. This year’s FC Hollywood-baiting one-two is a double swoop for Renato Sanches and Douglas Costa. Meantime, to celebrate the 14th anniversary of Porto’s second European Cup win, José Mourinho is planning to riff on Monaco’s pain once again by making off with midfielder Bernardo Silva.
Everton “won’t release a statement today” on the future of Ross Barkley, according to reports. Perhaps that’s because the whispers surrounding a £25m deal for Swansea midfielder Gylfi Sigurdsson are pretty much doing their job for them. The Toffees also want Málaga forward Sandro Ramírez, but Atlético Madrid might get there first.
Kyle Walker’s long-mooted move to Manchester City is in doubt. But only because Chelsea and Bayern Munich are sniffing around too. Chelsea are also interested in Monaco midfielder Tiemoué Bakayoko, Romelu Lukaku of Everton and Real Madrid’s Álvaro Morata. But they still want to keep popularity’s Diego Costa, who is now attracting interest from his former club Atlético as well as Chinese Super League spendthrifts Tianjin Quanjian.
Should the Walker deal fall through, Manchester City will cheer themselves up by splurging £50m on subtle body-language communicator / desperate Arsenal wantaway Alexis Sánchez. In turn, the Gunners will console themselves with 19-year-old KAS Eupen striker Henry Onyekuru, though Everton are also interested, and to be fair they can offer Europa League football as well.
And Philippe Coutinho has insisted he wants to remain at Liverpool: “Stay here and they will end up building a statue in your honour. Go somewhere else and you will be just another player. Here you can be something more.” Jürgen Klopp adds: “He really likes being here, it’s not like someone has to force him. His family really likes it too.” The chances of all this putting an end to those persistent links with Barcelona: about one in a million.
Stephen Curry scored 36 points and the Golden State Warriors closed out the Western Conference final against the injury-ravaged San Antonio Spurs with a 129-115 victory Monday night, becoming the first team in league history to start the playoffs 12-0.
Golden State led by as many as 22 points in cruising to their third straight NBA finals. The Warriors await a possible third straight championship match-up with Cleveland, who lead Boston 2-1 in the East finals.
“It’s great to be one of the last two teams standing, we’ll see how it goes,” said Kevin Durant, who had 29 points and 12 rebounds.
San Antonio’s only lead came on the opening possession when Manu Ginobili tossed in a left-handed scoop shot. The Spurs started Ginobili in what could be his final game with the team. The 39-year-old had maintained he will not decide whether to retire or return until after the season.
Unsure if the beloved veteran will return, the crowd serenaded Ginobili with “Manu, Manu” chants as the game came to a close. “An amazing competitor, even more fun playing against him,” Durant said of Ginobili. “He was phenomenal this series.”
Kyle Anderson scored 20 points to lead the Spurs, who were without Kawhi Leonard, Tony Parker and David Lee. San Antonio didn’t go down without a fight despite the injuries. Anderson dove on the court for a loose ball that the Spurs had tipped away defensively, pushing the ball upcourt to Mills who fed Ginobili for a three-pointer that pulled San Antonio to 108-94 with seven minutes remaining. The effort made Spurs coach Gregg Popovich smile and clap at times, but the Warriors’ depth and talent proved too much for short-handed San Antonio.
Golden State shot 56% and were 14 for 39 on three-pointers. Draymond Green had 16 points, eight rebounds and eight assists for the Warriors. Spurs forward LaMarcus Aldridge closed out a disappointing series with his second eight-point effort against the Warriors.
Colton Sissons scored his third goal with 6:00 left, ensuring the Nashville Predators’ magical postseason now includes the franchise’s first trip to the Stanley Cup final after eliminating the Anaheim Ducks with a 6-3 win in Game 6 on Monday night.
The Predators, who have never won even a division title in their 19-year history, came in with the fewest points of any team in these playoffs.
Now they’ve swept the West’s No1 seed in Chicago, downed St Louis in six in the second round and then the Pacific Division champ in six games. Peter Laviolette became the fourth coach to take three different teams to the final, and the first since the playoffs split into conference play in 1994.
The Predators will play either defending champions Pittsburgh or Ottawa for the Stanley Cup. Game 1 is on Monday.
Anaheim lost in the conference finals for the second time in three years.
AFL umpires have asked league officials to consider the impact of the centre bounce on officials amid suggestions the traditional practice could be contravening occupational health and safety guidelines.
AFL football operations general manager Simon Lethlean said he was collaborating with umpires on the issue to find out whether bouncing the ball was in some cases leading to injury.
“We’ve had that claim for a while now, so we’ve certainly understood the umpires’ position,” Lethlean told SEN radio.
“I suppose ‘claim’ is a strong word – they more asked us to look into the occupational health and safety issues that may or may not be around the bounce, and we’ve got independent doctors doing that alongside the official physiotherapist of the umpires.”
Lethlean ruled out an immediate change to rules concerning the bounce but said the issue was worthy of investigation.
“There will be no change to the bounce this season, but it’s certainly a commission decision at some stage this year to whether there’s a change or not,” Lethlean said.
“Just because there is a occupational health and safety review doesn’t mean the bounce has to go. It actually means there are ways to mitigate and prevent injuries, if that’s the case, by way of training methods, frequency, better medical and research.”
The centre bounce is understood to put a strain on umpires’ backs and shoulders, and calls to seek an alternative method of restarting play have been heard before.
But taking the bounce out of the game has proved difficult, with the more conservative factions within the AFL keen to uphold traditional elements of the game.
“It’s an unusual and unique facet of our game that I think is a fantastic part of the game, but if the overwhelming evidence and facts are that it’s removing umpires from our game, limiting the umpires that we get, losing good decision-makers and good umpires and causing injuries, we’ve got to consider [changes],” Lethlean said. “We certainly will and we’ll do it seriously.”
The AFL will, however, act immediately to outlaw the jumper punch before the end of the current season, following a series of recent incidents.
“It’s unusual, but we’re going to [change the rules]. We don’t want punching to continue,” Lethlean said. “We’re unequivocal about that.
“I think a change is required. Clearly, the deterrent of fines is not stopping on-field punching in various forms. That’s up to me now to give the MRP [match review panel] the equipment by which to be able to classify for either more forceful contact or for more intent.
“We’ll make that really clear to the players and clubs and make a change that’s enforceable and gives the MRP the right equipment in their classifications to ensure that sanctions are now matches [suspension], as compared to fines, if that’s going to be the deterrent required.”
Eleni Glouftsis’ journey to becoming the first female field umpire in AFL history began with a notice in the high school bulletin in Year 9. Glouftsis was a footy fanatic, and had been playing for years at Adelaide High School when she saw the AFL female pathway advertisement.
“At that time in South Australia there wasn’t really great pathways for women once you finished playing in high school,” she tells Guardian Australia after taking her bow centre-stage at Docklands. “I really loved football and being involved in fitness so I gave it a go and really enjoyed it.
“In hindsight I’m definitely glad I kept up with the umpiring. I’d love to play AFLW, but I just love being involved at the elite level, and I was happy to be able to do it in some form.”
Glouftsis’ landmark call-up comes in the same year as Tracey Gaudry’s appointment as first female CEO of an AFL club, as well as the incredible success of the inaugural season of AFLW. Glouftsis believes that the emergence of women in AFL speaks for the importance of pathways such as the one that was available to her.
“It’s really important in terms of the progression of the game. We’ve seen a lot more women involved in the past few years. They’ve gone through the ranks and they’re ready to be in these elite positions now.
“The AFLW was so fantastic to show everyone that women can be involved in all aspects of the game, and that it should be a game for everyone in Australia. Now with women players and hopefully more women umpires at the elite level, hopefully we can show them that women are just as capable as men.”
Glouftsis will officiate her second match this weekend, in the game between Melbourne and Gold Coast in Alice Springs. Things haven’t all gone her way, however, with controversy ensuing over the decision – made in consultation with umpires’ boss Hayden Kennedy – to throw up the ball rather than bounce it in the second half of her debut game on Sunday. Glouftsis had previously had to recall two of her bounces – a situation she described as “really disappointing”.
“I’m generally quite a good bouncer, [but] with the turf being re-laid last week, a number of the umpires had a lot of trouble with the soft surface.”
Glouftsis is aware of the conjecture over her difficulty with bouncing being a gender issue, but said she had not paid much attention to it. “We had another umpire tossing it up because he was having the same issue. It’s not a gender issue, and I hope I can prove that in Alice Springs.”
Nonetheless, the debate has reignited calls for a review of the AFL’s traditional centre-bounce, with coaches seemingly torn on the issue. After Sunday’s match, John Worsfold said he would be happy to scrap the bounce, while Adam Simpson was critical of the decision by the umpires to change from bouncing to throwing the ball midway through the game. But Glouftsis said such decisions were common when conditions changed in a match, such as after rain. She also hinted that the bounce might have outlived its historical purpose.
“Obviously it’s a really traditional part of the game, and I love the unique aspects of AFL. But a number of umpires have had shoulder reconstructions, and one umpire is still out with a back injury because of it.
“The way it is now, the bounce is so predictable because it has to be so straight. It takes away the whole purpose of the bounce, which was to be unpredictable. With the way our game’s changing, it really makes you think, ‘is there a place for the bounce any more?’”
With her second outing less than a week away, Glouftsis said she had some time to reflect on all the people who had supported her along the journey, including her 91-year-old grandmother, who made the trip from Adelaide along with her mother, father, brother and sister, as well as her partner Dillon Tee, who is also an AFL (boundary) umpire. Glouftsis said she and Tee had just purchased their first home in Adelaide when she got the call to move to Melbourne to pursue her umpiring career.
“It was really challenging, but Dillon was such a great support. He said ‘if it doesn’t work, let’s just move back again’. At this point, it makes it all worth it.”
Glouftsis said she hoped her debut would encourage other women to consider umpiring. “If you’re passionate about football, umpiring is such a great way to be involved. It increases your fitness, your confidence, your leadership; there’s so many skills you learn from being part of a football environment.
“It’s a great way to be part of the great game of footy.”
LeBron James may be accused of many things but a lack of confidence in his own powers is not usually one of them. However, that’s what his team-mate JR Smith believes he needs after James scored just 11 points and gave away six turnovers during the Cleveland Cavaliers’ shock defeat to the Boston Celtics on Sunday night.
James’s total was one of the lowest in his post-season career, and the first time in eight playoff games that he had failed to score 30 points. “He’s got to be aggressive, get downhill, play like he’s been playing, play confident,” Smith said. “That’s what I always think, when people of his stature or people like him, you’ve got to play confident the whole night and play aggressive. It’s the Eastern Conference finals. It’s not enough for him. For what he does, what he brings, it’s not enough. He knows that. We know that. Just expect him to be better in Game 4.”
Cleveland still lead the Eastern Conference finals 2-1 and are expected to win the best-of-seven series, especially against a Celtics team who are without their best player, Isaiah Thomas. But James’s performance on Sunday was unusually passive   – he took just three shots in the fourth quarter. 
On Monday, James did not stay around for extra work on his game after practice, which was unusual. His coach, Tyronn Lue, insisted the All-Star was in good spirits however. 
“No blame. We’re all to blame,” Lue said. “We lost. It happens. For a guy who played great for five straight months, he’s got to have a bad game sooner or later. He’s human. He didn’t shoot the ball well. It wasn’t his ordinary game. But Kevin [Love] and Kyrie [Irving] had it going early and they played well, so it kind of got him out of rhythm a little bit in that first half. That’s no excuse. They played well, but we’ve just got to play better, be more physical.”
The Celtics, meanwhile, are on a high after coming back from 21 points down to win Game 3 with 0.01 seconds left. Game 4 is on Tuesday in Cleveland but Sunday’s win means the Celtics will play at least one more game in their home arena this season. Game 5 is in Boston on Thursday.  
Avery Bradley was the hero for the Celtics on Sunday after his three-pointer sealed the win. He said the absence of Thomas, who will miss the rest of the playoffs with a hip injury, may have helped inspire the team. 
“You obviously hear people saying that it’s all about how you respond, and we don’t feel like people believed in us and counted us out,” Bradley said. “But that just put another chip on our shoulder, which I think is good. I hope we can continue to play with that chip on our shoulder and come out the same way next game.”
Bradley said Thomas wasn’t in Cleveland but they were keeping in touch. “We called him on FaceTime, so he got to celebrate with us a little bit,” Bradley said. “We wish he was here with us, and we just want him to get better.”

Juan Mata believes Manchester United finally have the right manager in José Mourinho, with the Spain international hopeful a new era of success can be kick-started by winning the Europa League.
United face Ajax in Wednesday’s final in Stockholm. If Mourinho’s side win they will claim their second trophy of the season, following the EFL Cup, as well as qualifying for the Champions League next season.
United have not won the Premier League since Sir Alex Ferguson’s final season in charge, the 2012-13 campaign. David Moyes succeeded Ferguson but was sacked after 34 league games and his successor, Louis van Gaal, was removed after two seasons, though he did win last year’s FA Cup.
Mata said: “Mourinho hates to lose. If you are the manager or a player for this club, you have high demands. It doesn’t matter if Sir Alex Ferguson just left, it doesn’t matter about the size and quality of the squad, you are always asked to reach the top.” The 29-year-old midfielder added: “I’m confident we can deliver and the fans will be happy again. Hopefully we can start from the final against Ajax on Wednesday.
“We want to play European football, hopefully it is Tuesday and Wednesdays, instead of Thursday’s, but if it’s Thursdays we will play Thursdays and it wouldn’t be an excuse to try to win the title. Obviously you don’t have as much time for recovery as you should, and we have lived that this season. But I think the club and money will help us try to get a bigger squad and help us prepare for a different competition.”
Mata was signed by Moyes in January 2014 for a then club-record £37.1m. His contract expires in 2018, with the club holding an option to extend by a further season and Mata has indicated that he wants to sign on again.
“Yes, I’m happy here. I’ve always said that since I came here it has not been the greatest moment in the club’s history,” Mata said. “It’s been a different approach and a new stage after Sir Alex Ferguson. We’ve had a few managers, different players coming and going, but I feel really happy to be at this club. I feel privileged to play for Manchester United. It is something when I’m old I will always be proud of.”
There are 5,000 miles between England and India and for Ben Stokes, just back from the IPL, Leeds seems a world away from Pune. He is here to prepare for England’s ODI against South Africa on Wednesday and, though Yorkshire is one of the few places on earth aside from India where cricket could fairly be described, to borrow Stokes’ phrase, as “a religion”, they are a little more solemn in their observance of it round Headingley way. “It’s completely different to England,” he says. “They go mad for it. They’ll queue up for five hours just to see Dhoni walk out on to the pitch.” It’s a relief, he says, to be able to “walk across the road and get a coffee” without having everyone pester you for “selfie, selfie, selfie”.
While most of Stokes’ English team-mates were pottering about the county grounds he was playing alongside MS Dhoni and Steve Smith for Rising Pune Supergiant. They made the IPL final – where they lost to the Mumbai Indians by a single run on Sunday – but Stokes missed the game. He, Chris Woakes and Jos Buttler were recalled from the IPL for England’s training camp in Spain, even though they were allowed to skip the two one-day internationals against Ireland. If the traditionalists were annoyed the trio had missed the England matches, IPL fans were just as irked that they were not around to take part in the tournament’s final rounds.
“It’s pathetic,” said Kevin Pietersen on Sky Sports, “an absolute shambles.” Stokes, stuck in the middle, is a little more diplomatic. “Before the tournament started it was made clear that all of us, me, Woakesy and Jos, were available for the 14 group games and then, if either of the teams got through to the finals, which obviously Kolkata, Mumbai and Pune managed to do, we weren’t available for that,” he said. “So all three teams were aware of that and we were aware of that as players as well, so that was always the thing going into it.” In Spain, he said, the England squad had done “a lot of fitness work, fielding work and a lot of team-bonding stuff”.
Pune certainly missed him. The coach, Stephen Fleming, admitted as much after the game. Stokes, who started the IPL as the most expensive player in the tournament after he sold for £1.7m, finished it by being named the most valuable. He scored 316 runs in 12 matches, with a strike rate of 143 and an average of 32, and he took 12 wickets at 26 runs each, with an economy rate of 7.18. He won three man-of-the-match awards, which is a better measure of his influence, for his three for 18 against RCB, his two for 21 against Mumbai and his 103 against Gujarat Lions.
As for the money, “once the whole thing started you wipe that under the carpet,” he says, “and you judge yourself solely on how you perform on the pitch. That’s where all the pressure came on myself, in wanting to go out there and put in performances for the team I was playing for.” If he is a richer, happier and more famous player now, he says he is also a better one. For the first time in his career he was able to spend a stretch of time on specialist T20 skills, instead of fitting the practice into his schedule between one-day, Test and championship games.
“Being able to work hard on those skills for six weeks was a really good thing to be able to do,” Stokes says. “Being able to work with specialist coaches in Twenty20 cricket, I think my bowling has gone up another level.”
The main benefit is that “all in all I think my areas are a lot better and tighter than they have been recently in one-day cricket, which came down from just working solely with [the bowling coach] Eric Simons over the six weeks I was there.” On top of that he got more experience “batting in different situations and under different pressure” so, he says, “all parts of my game have got better”.
The curious thing about the IPL is Stokes found himself working with the Australia captain, Smith. “I remember doing a batting session with some power-hitting towards the end where the guy who I will be playing against in the Ashes in our winter was helping me, which is something that you would never be able to fathom when you are playing against each other. When you have got two guys who are going to play each other and want to be winning and have their own ways of going about it end up working together – IPL is probably the only place where you get that.”
Next up are the three ODIs against South Africa, then the Champions Trophy. “We’ve earned the right to be the favourites,” Stokes says. “But we’re keeping our feet firmly on the ground and we know this is the competition with the best eight teams in the world and anyone can beat anyone.”
The worry is that it will all take a toll. And while he says he hopes he will be able to play “everything in the next two or three seasons”, including the IPL, he does admit “we just have to see how the body copes with everything”. And if there are any more conflicts in the schedule he is clear about where his loyalties lie. “Playing for England,” he says, “is always the main priority.”
Ben Stokes was speaking on behalf of Royal London, sponsors of one-day cricket
Warren Gatland fears the Lions will lose up to 10 players to injury over the next month following Billy Vunipola’s withdrawal from the squad heading for New Zealand. The head coach has also revealed he asked the England No8 to come to Ireland for a second medical opinion on his injured shoulder before respecting Vunipola’s request to pull out of the tour.
With the squad due to fly from Heathrow on Monday, Gatland is desperately hoping no further replacements will be required before departure but, with two showpiece domestic finals still to negotiate in London and Dublin this Saturday, he is not entirely optimistic. “No doubt there could be a couple more next week,” he said. “We plan to lose six to 10 players; that’s just the attrition rate of past tours. Any player who gets injured at this time is a big loss to the squad because you spend a lot of time going through the process of picking [specific] players.”
Vunipola is a conspicuous absentee on every front but a long-standing shoulder issue, which was set to be operated upon in July, has been aggravated at the most inconvenient of moments. “I did try and persuade him to come over and be assessed but he was adamant he wasn’t right,” said Gatland. “He is a big loss to us but I fully respect the decision he’s made not to go on the tour. He spoke to his family and they felt he was making the right decision. I think it was pretty tough for him. He’s had this ongoing shoulder problem for the last five to six months. We knew he was being managed by Saracens and it needed an operation which was potentially going to be done this summer.
“It had been popping out during games so you’ve got to respect his decision. I wasn’t going to push him. He’s got to be in the right mental frame of mind … we just have to move on.”
More happily for Gatland X-rays have confirmed the Ireland prop Jack McGrath has only a bruised arm, with his compatriot Tadhg Furlong also able to train on Monday. While Johnny Sexton, Sean O’Brien, Rhys Webb and Ken Owens were able to do only light exercise at the squad’s temporary base outside Dublin, the Lions coaches have 30 players on parade following the semi-final wins by Scarlets and Exeter over Leinster and Saracens respectively. “Being purely selfish they were pretty good results for us on the weekend,” said Gatland. “We’ve gone from 14 in Wales last week to having 30 in camp. We weren’t really expecting that number.”
The remaining members of the squad will join up on Sunday, including Vunipola’s replacement, James Haskell. Gatland phoned the Wasps forward to check on his state of fitness before calling back with news of his selection.
Haskell, unsurprisingly, was extremely keen. “He said: ‘I’ll carry the bags if needs be,’ reported Gatland. “That’s the kind of person he is. It’s not just about your rugby ability. It’s about how you handle being in the squad. Some people are used to being No1 for their nations. On this tour they might have to accept they’re No2. He’ll be great for us…a really positive addition. He’s also had experience of touring and playing in New Zealand. That’s reasonably significant.”
Haskell, belatedly picked for the long-awaited Lions adventure he thought had passed him by, remains gutted for his injured England team-mate but fully intends to make the most of his unexpected opportunity.
“It’s no good just being on the tour and collecting the kit,” said Haskell, who had spoken to Vunipola only hours before news of the latter’s withdrawal was released. “You want to win when given the opportunities in midweek games and then fight for that Test place. That’s when you’re truly a Lion, when you make those Test sides.”
Haskell still has clear memories of the Super Rugby season he spent with the Highlanders, based in Dunedin. “Of all the places to visit, New Zealand is one of the toughest. Everywhere you go, everyone gives you a haka.
“They say they’re welcoming you but it seems as if they’re offering you outside for a fight, from kids aged five to the OAPs. They say it’s to welcome us but it looks very much like an aggressive war dance to me. Over there they live and breathe their rugby. That’s what I found living over there. I loved it. It’s a place where rugby is the No1 priority.”
Another slice of good news came in the shape of the Lions captain Sam Warburton who says he is fully fit and ready to “crack on” for the New Zealand tour.
Warburton has not played since suffering a knee injury early last month, but he is firmly on course potentially to lead the Lions in next week’s tour opener against a Provincial Barbarians XV.
“I am fully fit, which is good,” said Warburton. “Last week in the camp in Wales I was pretty much doing everything apart from just the last little bit of contact stuff.
“But today I trained fully. We did full contact, and I was absolutely fine. That’s is all the boxes ticked, and now I can crack on.
“We’ve only had one day here, but we can run pretty much two lineouts and get some team stuff going.
“We can do it all fully-loaded. All the boys are pretty much up to the speed. We can start building some momentum.”
David Moyes saw it as the high-point of his managerial career when chosen to succeed Sir Alex Ferguson at Manchester United by the man himself. He could never have imagined it would be the turning point, or that a reputation built so carefully could unravel so quickly.
Since swapping the comforts of Everton for a six-year contract at Old Trafford in May 2013, departing Goodison Park to a standing ovation no less, Moyes has been sacked by two clubs and resigned from the one with whom he suffered the first relegation of his career. It may reflect well on the 54-year-old that he has left Sunderland without compensation for the final three years of his contract, but it reflects a truly dismal spell at the Stadium of Light that the clean break will be a mere footnote in Moyes’s time at the club. A Football Association charge for threatening to slap BBC Newcastle and Radio Five Live reporter Vicki Sparks, six wins in 38 Premier League games and pandering to John Terry’s ego at Chelsea on the final day of the season will be more defining memories for the Sunderland support.
Ten months at United, one year at Real Sociedad and 10 months on Wearside: the stability that Moyes gave to Everton – and vice versa – is now the exception to his career at the highest level when, as the United contract demonstrated, it had seemed the norm only four years ago. Change has not been confined to results since Ferguson summonsed his fellow Glaswegian to his home and offered, no, bestowed on Moyes the job of replacing a legend, a task he appeared unsuited for from the start. The Scot has faced constant calls for his dismissal from Sunderland supporters during the final months of a season that delivered the relegation the club have flirted with for several years. It will have hurt Moyes to hear demands for his head every time he set foot in his technical area but, tellingly, financial constraints are believed to be behind his resignation ahead of a season spent fighting in the Championship, not external pressure.
Moyes might have felt he had to quit before, with little money to spend and his few productive players such as Jordan Pickford and Jermain Defoe destined to leave this summer, his return as Sunderland manager looked even worse. Instead, however, it is a decision that strengthens the suspicion Moyes has lost some of his fight, his confidence and his clear convictions on how to develop a team for the long term since walking into a dressing room of champions at United and encountering open hostility. Moyes was accused of being aloof and arrogant during his 12 months at Real Sociedad, criticism that would not have been said of him prior to being chosen by Ferguson, while Fabio Borini’s admission that the Sunderland squad was divided invited fresh questions about his man-management skills.
A catalogue of injuries and the timing of Moyes’s arrival as Sam Allardyce’s replacement last summer contributed to Sunderland’s problems this season but his signings, tactics and motivational woes were equally significant. In many respects he resembled the right fit for Sunderland given what he achieved with time, patience and boardroom support at Everton but Ellis Short’s seventh manager in five years did not help himself with talk of a relegation fight two games into the season. What Moyes saw as brutal honesty was perceived by others as unnecessary negativity, and the image proved impossible to shake. A mid-season break to New York that preceded another miserable run of form and turning to a host of former, ageing Everton players to improve Sunderland’s survival prospects added to supporters’ dismay.
Moyes was not the first Sunderland manager to discover his transfer budget was not as large as it had appeared during talks with the club’s hierarchy. Allardyce, while feted for dragging the club to safety before landing the England job, also quickly took issue with the financial situation at Sunderland and allegedly thought it 50% less than he had been led to believe. By getting out now Moyes may feel he has an opportunity to start afresh and with the long-term outlook that suits him elsewhere. But after the experiences of United, Sociedad and now Sunderland that is a risk.
His options at the highest level will have suffered as a consequence of this season and his diminishing returns, although the Scotland job remains a likely alternative once Gordon Strachan’s time is up. Time out to reflect on the downward trajectory of his career, to rediscover the drive and ambition that characterised his arrival in the Premier League, is in order.
Mitchell Pearce has been recalled by NSW coach Laurie Daley on the same day Billy Slater’s long and storied career with Queensland appears to have been ended by Queensland mentor Kevin Walters.
Pearce, channelling the cockroach name the NSW side has colloquially became known as, was thought to have had a black line ruled through his name after his infamous pre-season scandal last year but has been given yet another lifeline by a Blues coach smitten with his club form.
The Roosters No7 beat out incumbent Adam Reynolds and will tie Immortal Andrew Johns as the most capped NSW half in history. It is either a redemption story on steroids or a maddening disregard of the Einstein’s definition of insanity, depending on your position.
Pearce has won just four of his 15 Origin matches over a rep career that started back in 2008. He has not played in a winning series. His statistics for the Blues make for sorry reading: one try, six assists, 15 errors, just two forced drop outs and more missed tackles (51) than runs (49).
It is a selection that will set a state alight in debate. No player divides NSW fans more. Those for his inclusion argue that he has been the best half in club-land available. Those against point to his malodorous Origin record. Daley clearly doesn’t buy into the philosophy that those who ignore history are doomed to repeat it.
No doubt working in Pearce’s favour is the partnership he has with James Maloney, the duo winning a premiership together at the Sydney Roosters in 2013 during three years playing together.
While it was Pearce’s inclusion that set tongues wagging south of the border, it was an exclusion that left Queensland coach Kevin Walters in tears and a state in shock with Billy Slater passed over.
Slater has played 27 times for the Maroons since debuting as a scintillating 20-year-old in 2004. Injury has kept him out of the last four encounters but after a strong – and healthy – start to the season, the Storm custodian was expected to return to the No1 jersey with Darius Boyd shifting to the wing.
Arguably the greatest fullback in history, Queensland’s long-standing policy of loyalty to those who have got the job done previously was overlooked in a decision that, barring injury to Boyd, has likely brought the curtain down on one of the Maroons’ longest-serving and most popular players.
It is no doubt a changing-of-the-guard match for the Maroons. Johnathan Thurston is likely to miss the match with injury. Greg Inglis and Matt Scott are both out hurt and Nate Myles could join them. Corey Parker has retired.
Anthony Milford beat out a hot field to partner Cooper Cronk in the halves as Thurston’s chances of playing diminished, a field that included Daly Cherry-Evans and Cameron Munster. There is no doubt though that Milford’s explosiveness and individual brilliance stylistically complements the organised football-savant genius of Cronk.
It was a bold move from Walters but one that will likely pay dividends. The Maroons mentor has also happily put his faith in debutant Dylan Napa to start at prop. The fiery Roosters red-head will no doubt be targeted early by the aggressive Blues pack but Napa is a player who knows no fear.
Walters’ counterpart Daley though was far more conservative in his selections. Aside from going with Nathan Peats to debut at hooker, a decision forced upon him by an injury to Peter Wallace and a belief that incumbent Robbie Farah is a bad match with Pearce, Daley has stuck with an ageing team.
Brett Morris hasn’t scored a try in eight weeks yet was chosen on a wing. Josh Dugan was picked out of position and having not played in a month. Jarryd Hayne has been unable to rediscover his pre-NFL form. Aaron Woods and David Klemmer kept their spots in the prop rotation despite Dragons pairing Paul Vaughan and Jack De Belin and Storm youngster Jordan McLean being in far better form.
It will be this conservatism that will likely cost the Blues. Again. Daley has consistently believed the team who lost narrowly are on the verge of winning so when the following year rolls around he is reluctant to make changes. The greatest trickery Queensland have ever played is having NSW believe they are close to ending the Maroons’ dominance.
The packs again look evenly matched. Both are deep with aggression and work rate. The fullbacks of each team are brilliant, different in style but matchwinners all the same. The Maroons have maybe the slightest of edges in the three-quarter line, primarily because the centres – the toughest defensive position on the field – are actually centres.
The tale of the halves though, that is where Queensland have dominated New South Wales over the last decade and where they again have a clear advantage, even with a debutant. Cooper Cronk can be relied on to kick well and get his players in the right spots. Milford’s role will be simple. Unfortunately the Blues don’t have a Cooper Cronk. They don’t even have their best available halves pairing.
Kumar Sangakkara fell early on the final morning of Surrey’s draw with Middlesex, tempted into wafting at James Franklin, but by then his work was done; the baton was picked up by young players – Ben Foakes and the Curran brothers, Sam and Tom – whose games he has so profoundly influenced, who manoeuvred Surrey into a position Middlesex would not dare chase. The equation was 242 runs in 39 overs, and they settled for a draw.
That Surrey escaped with that result was largely down to Sangakkara. In this game he scored two centuries, passed 20,000 first-class runs, became just the fourth Surrey player (after Tom Hayward in 1906, Jack Hobbs in 1920 and 1925, and Ian Ward in 2002) to score Championship hundreds in four consecutive innings. He scored 234 runs in the match, and the next greatest contribution from a Surrey batsman was Foakes’s 86. Nobody, not even Gary Ballance, has more than his 592 runs in Championship cricket this summer.
Sangakkara confirmed at the close that it is a case of catch him while you can: this will be his final summer in the county game and, in the week a portrait of him was unveiled in the pavilion, his last red-ball game at Lord’s. “It was nice to bat again at Lord’s,” he said. “It’s probably the last time I’ll play a four-day game here. The biggest mistake you can make is to think you are better than you are and you try to fight the inevitable. You need to get out while you are ahead. All good things come to an end. Cricketers and any other sportsperson has an expiry date.
“I didn’t imagine the week would end this way, no. It is a great privilege and an honour and I think Anthony, the artist, has actually made me look a bit better than I actually am. I’m not sure if I’m better than Mahela [Jayawardene, whose painting is next to Sangakkara’s], but certainly better than I am in real life! That was a plus point.
“The only time I have walked past a picture of me was in my last Test and they had some cutouts of me – that was a bit embarrassing and unnerving, and this is too! I have basically no memorabilia at home of my time in cricket, so I’m not a big one for mementos. But it is Lord’s, and it’s a great privilege. Look at all the other portraits of great cricketers and you feel a bit funny, thinking you don’t belong in that environment but the fact the MCC wanted my portrait was very humbling.”
Middlesex felt an opportunity when Sangakkara fell and, sensing reverse-swing, declined the new ball. From there, Surrey’s innings dragged on, largely thanks to Foakes’s patient, unbeaten 67. Yet it remained curious Middlesex approached their challenging chase with such passivity. There was no adjustment to the batting order or urgency (particularly after Nick Gubbins was given caught behind off the thigh pad), rather an acceptance of 13 points to Surrey’s 11. They have drawn their first three games, and narrowly missed a win against Essex last time out on another dead Lord’s track; if they are to defend their title, they must start converting positions of such authority into wins.
At Taunton Marcus Trescothick made Somerset history, with his 50th first-class century for the county seeing him pass Harold Gimblett as Somerset’s most prolific century-maker. Despite Trescothick’s efforts, Warwickshire invited the hosts to follow-on 187 behind. The bespectacled 41-year-old Trescothick returned to the crease and ended 46 not out as a draw (from which Somerset took eight to Warwickshire’s 12 points)was declared.
The Roses match at Old Trafford ended with Yorkshire’s Peter Handscomb blasting a 76-ball second innings century, but Lancashire, who reached 432, 16 behind on first innings, took 10 points to Yorkshire’s nine.
The only result of the day came at Derby, where a combination of insipid batting from the hosts and inspired captaincy and bowling from Joe Leach combined to give Worcestershire a remarkable maximum-point win by an innings and 42 runs. Leach declared his side’s first innings with a lead of 140, then took five for 32 to skittle Derbyshire for 98. Worcestershire have won their opening three games for the first time since 1988.
Glamorgan’s Colin Ingram (155*) and Chris Cooke (113) batted throughout the final day to share 226 and deny a Stuart Broad-led (he bowled 34 wicketless overs) Nottinghamshire attack a fourth straight win, while second-placed Kent, for whom 41-year-old Darren Stevens made another century, drew with Leicestershire. On day two at Hove, Luke Wells scored a staggering career-best 258 from 311 balls as Sussex racked up a lead of 165 over Durham. Stiaan van Zyl finished the day 141 not out.
Farewell, then, to the year that almost was. This was a Premier League season that sparked with a controlled excitement, never quite caught fire but still dished up another digestible slice of high-end product.
Things kept on almost happening. Leicester City almost completed the most dramatic title-plus-relegation act of all time. But then it was all sort of OK. Marco Silva almost pulled off a minor managerial miracle – but somehow not quite. To great fanfare Tottenham Hotspur pulled to within one victory of being quite close to creeping up on Chelsea’s shoulder at the top – almost but not quite, leaving for the third season in a row not so much a title race as a well-ordered title jog.
Manchester United eked out arguably the most pointless extended unbeaten run in footballing history. Liverpool fought heroically on one front to make it to fourth place – quite a good result pending success in the Champions League qualifying round. Arsenal finishing fifth rather than fourth was one of the stories of the season. At the bottom there was a relegation struggle almost to the end that only really involved two clubs, Hull City and Swansea City. Whisper it but the season could have been pretty much called off in February without too much being lost.
And yet, this being English football, there was still drama – moments of brilliance and great booming narrative arcs to be resolved – though this tended once again to be extraneous drama and noises off, a league of personality and soap opera where the football itself has at times felt like a necessary background music.
The sacking of Claudio Ranieri in February, a straightforward enough event in context, was among the most furiously discussed and emoted-over events of the season. West Ham United’s stadium-angst was the most interesting thing about West Ham United. Paul Pogba’s agent’s fee was, for now, the most interesting thing about the world record signing. At Arsène Wenger’s final press conference there was a degree of exasperation when, right at the last, someone made the mistake of asking a question about football tactics rather than boardroom politics.
A season billed as a meeting of the super managers became a season of struggle for José Mourinho and Pep Guardiola
Perhaps the most intriguing storyline in the league of chatter was the way a season billed as a meeting of the super managers became instead a season of struggle for José Mourinho and Pep Guardiola. The fluency of Manchester City’s attack at the end suggests Guardiola’s delicate, slightly precious methods may start to show real progress next season. Before then Guardiola found himself jounced and jostled in novel fashion. The puritanical obsession with style and method, with wheeling out game, gaffe-ridden Claudio Bravo, with praising unconditionally the stones of Stones, was fascinating to watch. “What is tackles?” Guardiola’s response to the defeat at Leicester, was a delicious, if slightly spun, moment of worlds colliding – and the quote of the season.
Mourinho eventually gave up on the league, having arguably not really engaged with it in the first place as something to be seized with any real enterprise or energy. Victory in the Europa League final will justify, if not quite explain, United’s meekness in a league they once made a habit of taking by the throat.
There were plenty of individual success stories. N’Golo Kanté was crowned best player, fittingly in a league that prizes energy and industry, though his excellence as a midfield screen is as much a tribute to his intelligence and reading of the play. Antonio Conte’s switch to a back three has already been lauded as a cultural breakthrough up there with the invention of the horse-drawn train but its effects were instant and brilliantly worked.
Paul Clement pulled off a wonderful coup in keeping his inherited Swansea team up, a rescue act achieved not via the familiar “personality” and motivational tropes but through hard work, tactical acuity and relentlessly drilling his players.
From a neutral point of view Bournemouth, Burnley, late-season Crystal Palace, Everton in patches and, above all, Tottenham were the real joy of the season. Spurs in particular are a success story with everything bar an actual real-life trophy. They can still claim a fine record in the league, a hugely engaging team and a thrilling style, all achieved on a (relative) budget and despite some awful recruitment in the summer.
Harry Kane’s partnership with Dele Alli, a football league product given sustained early exposure, has been a piece of rare illumination. Thanks to a starburst of goals at the end the season’s top scorer is a young English player trusted to bloom in the Premier League in his early 20s. A constrained budget and simple good luck may have played a part in this but it is surely an example to be followed.
The enemies of progress have been the same as ever: too much chop and change, too many options, too much cash in the float, too many interested parties on board. This is a league where teams are built at hyper speed by a manager flipping pancakes and building a matchstick replica of the Eiffel Tower while simultaneously sliding down the banisters; and where there is often no time for development or studied improvement. Premier League clubs spent £1bn in the summer without obvious improvement in standards or ramping up of the star-ometer beyond the glister of late-career Zlatan Ibrahimovic, a standard-bearer for ageing, well-preserved men everywhere.
Beyond this the actual football in the Premier League has been gripping and also interesting, with a degree of fluidity, new shapes and tactical innovation. At times through the autumn and winter the league seemed to have found a new level of physicality, a game of bruising collisions and endless sprints, the idea of hurrying a mistake out of an opponent in an attacking area still eagerly embraced by English football, from the days of Charles Hughes and putting it in the mixer to the current “high press”.
It made for some breathless contests, some impressive feats of stamina and power and some wonderful yardage stats. In between times the steel of Atlético Madrid, the class of Bayern Munich and the attacking verve of Monaco exposed the vulnerability of the Premier League style to a skilful counterpunch. Next season will as ever promise more of everything. The real challenge is to produce more coherent, settled teams, not least among the bigger, hungrier clubs; and above all to give the domestic dramas a more flattering context by challenging the very best in Europe once again.
The Football Association has contacted bookmakers seeking their observations after payments were apparently made to punters who had wagered bets at odds of 100-1 on the specific time of John Terry’s substitution against Sunderland.
Paddy Power had accepted the bets on Terry being replaced between 26:00 and 26:59, matching his shirt number, in Sunday’s final Premier League fixture of the campaign, the 36-year-old’s last as a Chelsea player at Stamford Bridge. The then Sunderland manager, David Moyes, said after the match his team had “known it was coming” and had raised no objections. The visiting goalkeeper, Jordan Pickford, was reminded by Diego Costa and duly kicked the ball out of play to allow the substitution to take place.
While the Premier League is believed to be relaxed about the matter, content the player’s withdrawal did not contravene any of their rules, the FA has now instigated a dialogue with betting companies to ascertain the precise chain of events on Sunday. The governing body has requested any relevant information. There is no suggestion that the decision to substitute Terry was anything other than Chelsea’s attempt to give their captain a proper send-off as his 22-year spell at the club draws to a close, and no suspicious betting patterns have, as yet, been reported.
The FA’s rules regarding match-fixing state that: “Fixing is arranging in advance the result or conduct of a match or competition, or any event within a match or competition.” Comparisons have been drawn with the incident, still under investigation, in which the Sutton United goalkeeper Wayne Shaw resigned after eating a pie during February’s FA Cup tie against Arsenal. However, the bet involving Shaw was offered on the open market by a bookmaker, whereas wagers on Terry’s substitution followed an inquiry by a punter.
“We replied to a novelty request for odds on John Terry’s substitution – one of hundreds on the Chelsea game – and fair play to the three punters who were on at odds of 100-1,” Paddy Power said in a statement. “To be honest the only mistake here is we should have clocked sooner there’d be another cringe-worthy Chelsea sendoff for JT.”
While Terry suggested post-match that he had proposed the substitution in the minute that matched his shirt number, it is understood the decision was made jointly by the captain, the manager, Antonio Conte, and senior players in the squad who had deliberated how best to grant the former England captain the best farewell. Conte had hoped to use the game against Sunderland, which was eventually won 5-1 by his side, as a means of maintaining key players’ form before Saturday’s FA Cup final against Arsenal.
There was a precedent at Chelsea, with Didier Drogba carried off by his team-mates midway through the first half of his farewell appearance, also against Sunderland, on the day Chelsea lifted the Premier League trophy in 2015. Terry’s substitution process on his 717th appearance for the club had begun when the clock ticked on to 26 minutes, making it the 27th minute of the match, and by the time he left the field through a guard of honour formed by his team-mates it was the 28th minute, yet Paddy Power honoured the bets, saying: “Clearly the send-off was planned for the 26th minute to commemorate JT, hence why we paid out.”
The Chelsea head coach, Antonio Conte, has been named Premier League manager of the year by the League Managers Association at their 25th annual awards dinner.
Chris Hughton was named Championship manager of the year after guiding Brighton to the Premier League while Sheffield United’s Chris Wilder won the League One manager of the year award.
Paul Cook collected the League Two manager of the year prize following Portsmouth’s title win.
At least one punter backed a winner at 999-1 after it had already crossed the line on Monday while others lost a combined total of nearly £43,000 at short odds after a three-way photo-finish at Carlisle in which the winner appeared to many observers to have finished second at best.
Ventura Dragon, the 5-4 favourite for the five-furlong novice event for two-year-olds which opened the card, made significant ground against the far rail in the closing stages and flashed across the winning line locked in battle with Sayaady, a 10-1 chance. Magic Mark, at 9-2, was also involved in the finish towards the middle of the track, but the initial impression of many viewers was that Sayaady had just held on.
This belief was apparently confirmed by a freeze-frame of the finish shown on the Racing UK channel moments later, in which Sayaady’s nose seemed to be in front.
Almost £25,000 was staked on Sayaady on the Betfair betting exchange at its minimum price of 1.01 – equivalent to 100-1 on – during the race, and another £19,500 at the same price after the horses had crossed the line, before the judge announced that Ventura Dragon had actually won the race by a nose.
At least one bet of less than £1 was matched on Ventura Dragon at the maximum price of 1000 (or 999-1) before the result was declared, with other bets at 120 (119-1) and 100 (99-1).
The total of just under £43,000 lost on Seyaady at 1.01 places him ninth in the all-time list of expensive short-priced losers on Betfair since the exchange launched in 2000. The most expensive to date was Kay Gee Be, who was nailed on the line in a race at Nottingham in 2011 after more than £200,000 had been staked on him to win at 1.01.
The 5-4 shot Ventura Dragon (far side) wins the opener at Carlisle in a three-way photo finish with Seyaady in the middle just touched off pic.twitter.com/oMhql216ZW
Tim Palin, the director of racing for Ventura Dragon’s owner, Middleham Park Racing, was one of many to be deceived by the close finish.
“It did look like he was finding it too sharp again,” Palin said. “I thought he was running on nicely for third and then I thought he might get second.
“I was watching it at Doncaster Sales and, when they crossed the line, I thought we were second at best, so it was a very nice surprise when I heard the result.”
Freddy Head, who saddled the outstanding miler Solow to land five Group One events in 2015 during a winning streak that extended to 10 races, said on Monday that the seven-year-old has been retired after failing to recover fully from an injury sustained in March 2016.
Solow was one of the most successful geldings that European racing has seen and his victories included the Queen Anne Stakes at Royal Ascot, the Sussex Stakes at Glorious Goodwood and the Queen Elizabeth II Stakes, also at Ascot. In addition he took the Dubai Turf, one of the world’s most valuable turf events, at Meydan in 2015 and won his final start in the Prix Montjeu at Chantilly despite sustaining the injury which eventually cut short his career.
“We just couldn’t get him back to where he was and didn’t want to risk injuring him again,” Head said. “He was too good to risk so we’ve called it a day. He won five Group Ones – picking one out is hard, maybe the Sussex Stakes at Goodwood or the Queen Anne at Royal Ascot. He was most impressive in Dubai, but that form probably wasn’t as strong.
 “To do what he did in those six months, he was a real champion and he retires having won his last 10 races. Even in his last race he was impressive, it didn’t look like he could win from where he was. He was one of the best, if not the best, I’ve trained and I’ve had the likes of Goldikova, Moonlight Cloud and Charm Spirit. During those six months I think he was unbeatable. I think he was just by himself.”
Roger Charlton will step Atty Persse up in trip at Haydock on Friday as part of his preparations for an outing at Royal Ascot after ruling out a bid for the Derby. The unbeaten son of Frankel, who was a general 20-1 chance for Epsom, will race over a mile and a quarter for the first time at the Lancashire track.
Brighton
2.20 Arabian Jazz 2.50 Sweet Pursuit 3.20 Black Bess 3.50 Roy Rocket (nb) 4.20 Provoking 4.50 Kefeel 5.20 Fairy Mist 5.50 Duke Of North
Newcastle
2.10 Muzaahim 2.40 Broctune Papa Gio 3.10 Shargiah 3.40 Master Singer 4.10 Morning Suit 4.40 Major Crispies 5.10 Hamidans Girl 5.40 Kinloch Pride (nap)
Nottingham
2.00 Master Grey 2.30 Angel Palanas 3.00 Chelsea’s Boy 3.30 Marilyn 4.00 Sporting Times 4.30 Al Nafoorah 5.00 Corridor Kid
Hexham
5.45 New List 6.15 Apache Pilot 6.45 Cape Hideaway 7.15 No Such Number 7.50 Hattons Hill 8.20 Cairnshill 8.50 Bygones For Coins
Huntingdon
5.35 New Agenda 6.05 Lake Chapala 6.35 Zayfire Aramis 7.05 Tell The Tale 7.35 Cobra De Mai 8.05 Golanova 8.35 Always Archie
Police say Indianapolis 500 pole-winner Scott Dixon and fellow former race winner Dario Franchitti were robbed at gunpoint while in a Taco Bell drive-thru lane.
A police report that the robbery happened shortly before 10pm on Sunday at the fast-food restaurant less than a mile from the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, where Dixon had hours earlier won the top starting position for next Sunday’s Indy 500.
The police report says two males ran away after the robbery and that Dixon’s wife, Emma, was also in the vehicle. Officers later arrested two boys, ages 15 and 14.
IndyCar driver Tony Kanaan told reporters on Monday that Dixon was making a food run for a group of drivers. “While they were ordering with their windows down two guys approached at gun point,” Kannan said. “They held a gun at Dixon’s head and asked him for his wallet and his phone. You don’t expect that to happen, especially here ... Obviously, I’m glad they’re OK. Now obviously I can make fun of them big time.”
Dixon, who is from New Zealand, is the 2008 Indy 500 winner and a longtime Chip Ganassi Racing team-mate of Franchitti, a Scot who retired in 2013 with Indy 500 wins in 2007, 2010 and 2012.
“Scott Dixon and Dario Franchitti are completely fine after being held up last night by two men at a fast-food restaurant,” the team said in a statement. “We will allow the Speedway/Indianapolis police departments to handle the situation and while they conduct their investigation we will refrain from making any further comments to allow Scott to focus on the upcoming Indianapolis 500.”
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
It is baffling to think that they were getting ready to welcome the Moyesiah at Old Trafford this time four years ago. If Moyes could turn back the clock, it is unlikely that he would accept Manchester United’s offer to succeed Sir Alex Ferguson. But how could he have possibly known that landing his dream job would lead to this nightmarish turn of events? Try as Moyes might to remind the world of his undeniably excellent work at Everton, all anyone can see now is the man whose limitations at the highest level were exposed in one of the more brutal ways imaginable, leaving his reputation in tatters and raising his inherent caution to such debilitating levels that now he is known as the Energy Vampire at Sunderland, draining the spirit of the people around him. He was nothing short of a disaster at the Stadium of Light. He arrived with a defeatist attitude, waved the white flag as relegation approached and was fortunate not to lose his job after being caught making disparaging remarks to a female BBC interviewer. It is true that Sunderland’s many problems are not all down to Moyes, but what did he do to lift the malaise? Most football supporters can stomach losing – it comes with the territory. What they cannot abide, however, is watching their team roll over every week, so the majority of Sunderland’s supporters will not be losing any sleep now that Moyes will not be managing their side in the Championship, after he resigned the day after the final game of the season.
The Spaniard employed a different brand of negativity to the type favoured by Moyes, but it was no less damaging to his team’s survival hopes. The warning signs were already there for Middlesbrough, who were goal-shy even while winning automatic promotion from the Championship last season, and Karanka stubbornly failed to rectify concerns that a lack of verve would be their downfall in a tougher league. His focus on defence was too great and while Middlesbrough were stingy at the back, they failed to find the right balance between defence and attack. They were a chore to watch and their players often looked bored and uninspired. The division’s lowest scorers should have replaced Karanka long before his sacking in March.
Taking your pick from the collection of rogues signed by West Ham last summer isn’t easy. For instance, Álvaro Arbeloa’s only league start came in an awful 3-0 defeat to Southampton and the veteran right-back, who picked up three bookings in four appearances, has not been seen since a wretched 5-1 thrashing against Arsenal in December. André Ayew, signed for £20m, tore a thigh muscle on his debut. Havard Nordtveit has threatened to redefine mediocrity. Gokhan Tore stunk the place out before getting injured in October. Presented with an easy chance against Stoke, Jonathan Calleri produced a farcical rabona. But the floppiest of them all was the Italy international who was supposed to solve West Ham’s striking woes. West Ham paid a £5m loan fee to bring in Zaza from Juventus and would have been obliged to part with another £20m if he had reached 14 Premier League appearances, negotiating that must make the taxpayer wonder how the east Londoners secured such a sweet deal for the London Stadium. Zaza made 11 appearances in all competitions, failed to score once, sent one shot out for a throw and left in January. Still, at least he wasn’t allowed near penalties.
Here is a goalkeeper who won two La Liga titles and seven major titles overall with Barcelona and who played a starring role for Chile in their Copa América triumphs in 2015 and 2016. He arrived in England with a reputation for being good with his feet, which seemed to make him the perfect fit for Pep Guardiola, who had decided that Joe Hart no longer had a part to play at Manchester City. Yet Bravo has struggled ever since his shaky debut in the Manchester derby, when his error led to a goal for Zlatan Ibrahimovic. The Chilean was sent off at Camp Nou in October and at one point even his shot-stopping abilities deserted him – Bravo failed to make a single save when City lost 4-0 at Everton in January. Guardiola’s intentions are possible to understand in theory, but it isn’t working.
The Ivorian was one of the most lethal strikers in the Premier League before leaving Swansea City at the start of 2015, but he has become an irrelevance since then. The 28-year-old has failed to impress on loan at Stoke City. Deemed surplus to requirements at Manchester City, it was reasonable to assume that Bony would regain his form once he started playing regularly again and there was a brief hint of a resurgence when he scored twice in the win over Swansea in October. But those were Bony’s only goals for Stoke. He has not featured since departing for the Africa Cup of Nations in January and clubs will think twice before making a move for him this summer.
The appointment of a woman as a top-flight referee in Germany has been hailed as a breakthrough for equality domestically and a milestone for football.
Bibiana Steinhaus has become an overnight celebrity since the announcement by the German football federation’s referee commission that she will take charge of games in the Bundesliga next season. The same organisation banned women from playing football as recently as the 1950s.
Writing in Die Welt, columnist Oskar Beck said that until now almost every element of the game was male, even the definite article “der”, which is used to describe everything from kick-off to goalpost, counterattack and corner kick. Fittingly, he said, “whistle” – “die Pfeife” – is feminine.
Steinhaus would change the tone of the game for the better, Beck added.
Another columnist said Steinhaus’s appointment ranked in importance with the country getting its first female chancellor in 2005.
The 38-year-old, from Bad Lauterberg in northern Germany, works as a police officer in Hannover, and is known as “Bibi”. She said the job “has always been my dream. That it should come true has obviously made me extremely happy.”
Steinhaus told the DFB website: “For any referee, whether man or woman, it is the biggest ambition to be able to blow the whistle in the Bundesliga. I’ve spent many years working towards that and faced several setbacks. Which is why I’m very happy about the trust the referee commission has shown in me, which proves that even in refereeing it’s performance that counts”.
Inspired by her father who was also a football referee, Steinhaus took charge of her first match in 1995. She was promoted to the women’s Bundesliga in 1999 and to the women’s regional league in 2001. In 2005, she was recognised by the international football body Fifa, becoming a referee for the second tier of the Bundesliga in 2007. She refereed key women’s football matches at the London Olympics in 2012.
Her partner, the ex-Premier League and World Cup referee Howard Webb, said he was “absolutely thrilled to bits” by Steinhaus’s appointment. Webb told the BBC he thought it might inspire more women to aim for high positions in the game, and could pave the way for the Premier League to put women in charge of matches.
“We have some good female officials in England. More and more are coming through and if they have the ability it shouldn’t make any difference if they are male or female,” he said.
Until now the leading woman in German football has been Sylvia Neid, the former player and coach of Germany’s highly successful women’s team. Martina Voss, who won seven national titles as a player and trains the Swiss women’s team, has suggested it might not be long before a woman takes over as a Bundesliga coach.
Steinhaus is the oldest of four new referees appointed for the coming season. Insiders said it was her last chance to be promoted to the Bundesliga.
In 2014, while serving as the fourth official in a match between Bayern Munich and Mönchengladbach, the Bayern Munich coach Pep Guardiola stormed up to her to put his arms around her shoulder as he argued about a refereeing decision. She angrily shrugged him off, and it was he who faced criticism for his patronising behaviour.
Steinhaus was at the heart of another media storm in 2015 when Fortuna Düsseldorf’s midfielder Kerem Demirbay received a five-game ban for saying “women have no place in men’s football” after Steinhaus sent him off.

Sunderland are seeking their eighth manager in six turbulent years after David Moyes concluded a calamitous 10 months on Wearside by resigning on Monday afternoon.
The former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad manager departed after a meeting with Ellis Short, Sunderland’s owner, and Martin Bain, the chief executive, in London. He leaves the relegated club without compensation after presiding over only six Premier League wins all season, falling out with some key players and failing to persuade Short to agree to his proposal of signing virtually an entirely new team this summer.
Sunderland will spend the next few days “taking stock” before attempting to recruit a replacement but their eventual shortlist could well include Slavisa Jokanovic. The Fulham manager’s Craven Cottage contract contains a break clause and he and Bain previously worked well together at Maccabi Tel Aviv.
Whoever takes over must cope without Jermain Defoe after Sunderland’s leading scorer opened talks with Bournemouth on Monday. Defoe’s contract contains a clause enabling him to leave the Stadium of Light on a free transfer.
Moyes could soon be a candidate to replace the currently vulnerable Gordon Strachan as Scotland coach but his departure represents a loss of face for Short, who recruited the 54-year-old Glaswegian at the fifth attempt last July. At the time Sam Allardyce’s successor was unaware that the billionaire American financier was hoping to sell Sunderland and failed to realise the club were well over £100m in debt.
Nonetheless Moyes was allowed to spend £30m last summer but his signings failed to impress and, with the team struggling, he privately considered walking out as early as last autumn.
By then Sunderland fans were already becoming disillusioned with his perceived negativity but Short – who would have had to fork out £3m in recompense had he sacked him only one year into a four-year contract – was reluctant to pay off yet another manager. Moreover, like Bain, the owner clung to the hope that Moyes would prove the long-term solution to Sunderland’s woes.
At the start of this month Moyes hinted that he was minded to quit but a meeting with Short and Bain a fortnight ago ended with the pair offering him their unequivocal support and Short pondering his rebuilding plans.
Since then calls for Moyes’s head from fans have intensified and the club’s internal atmosphere has become increasingly toxic. It is understood that Moyes, who questioned the attitude and application of several senior players and was horrified when 12 reported injured before Sunday’s 5-1 defeat at Chelsea, learned that Short would not be offering him next season’s £47m parachute payment to invest. Although he would have been allowed to reinvest money from the sales of players, including Jordan Pickford and Lamine Koné, he feared it would be insufficient to facilitate an immediate promotion challenge.
A statement from Short read: “I pursued the services of David Moyes for a considerable period prior to his appointment last summer, which makes the announcement of his departure difficult for everyone concerned.
“Having worked tirelessly throughout the campaign to avoid relegation from the Premier League, David has chosen to leave the club without compensation, which is testament to his character. In the days ahead we will take some time for reflection and then focus on recruitment.”
Jokanovic, Garry Monk, Aitor Karanka and Nigel Pearson could be among those coaches considered by Short, while Nigel Clough, whose late father Brian was a Sunderland hero, has done an excellent job on a budget at Burton Albion.
After spending more than a decade at Everton Moyes has now left four posts in four years. If the moment in March when, furious to have been quizzed about his job security, he told the BBC reporter Vicki Sparks that she might “get a slap,” if she was not more deferential in future tarnished his reputation, Sunderland’s season-long surrender has arguably holed it almost beyond repair.
Nicky Hayden, the former MotoGP world champion, has died five days after he was involved in a cycling accident.
The 35-year-old American was hit by a car during a training exercise in Italy last week and suffered severe head and chest injuries. On Monday, the Maurizio Bufalini Hospital, where he had been placed into a medically induced coma, confirmed that he had died.
“The medical team has verified the death of the patient Nicholas Patrick Hayden, who has been undergoing care since last Wednesday 17 May in the intensive care unit of the Bufalini Hospital in Cesena following a very serious polytrauma which occurred the same day,” the statement said.
The driver of the vehicle that struck Hayden was given a breathalyser test and was not found to have been over the limit at the time of the accident. Italian police have opened an inquiry into the accident, with their conclusions expected in July.
Hayden entered MotoGP, motorcycling’s elite competition, in 2003 and won the world championship in 2006, narrowly beating his friend and rival Valentino Rossi, who had won the title five times in a row. Hayden, who was born in Owensboro, Kentucky, transferred to World Superbikes in 2016. He was competing for the Red Bull Honda team this season and was 13th in the riders’ standings.
“As well as being a true champion on the track, Nicky was a fan favourite off it due to his kind nature, relaxed demeanour, and the huge smile he invariably carried everywhere, said Red Bull Honda in a team statement. “The ‘Kentucky Kid’ will be sorely missed by all that ever had the pleasure of meeting him or the privilege to see him race a motorcycle around a track, be it dirt or asphalt.”
Destrozado tras la noticia. Nunca te olvidaremos! / I'm shattered after the news. We will never forget you! #DEPNickyHayden #RIPNickyHayden pic.twitter.com/qF5wNnFM6o
On Monday, members of the motor racing community paid tribute to Hayden, who was an immensely popular figure. The reigning MotoGP world champion, Marc Márquez, was one of the first to post about Hayden’s death on Twitter. “I’m shattered after the news. We will never forget you!,” he wrote.
On Instagram, another Spanish MotoGP rider, Aleix Espargaró, said: “Can’t believe [it] ... The most easy and good guy I ever met on a paddock in my life! Love u Nicky!” The former Formula One driver Mark Webber described Hayden, the last American to win a MotoGP world championship, as a “beautiful person, genuine and real”.
Members of Hayden’s family, including his mother and fiancee, flew to Italy last week to be by his bedside.
“On behalf of the whole Hayden family and Nicky’s fiancée Jackie, I would like to thank everyone for their messages of support – it has been a great comfort to us all knowing that Nicky has touched so many people’s lives in such a positive way,” said his brother, Tommy, in a statement.
“Although this is obviously a sad time, we would like everyone to remember Nicky at his happiest – riding a motorcycle. He dreamed as a kid of being a pro rider and not only achieved that but also managed to reach the pinnacle of his chosen sport in becoming world champion. We are all so proud of that.”
Oklahoma City Thunder center Enes Kanter expressed his desire to become a US citizen and underscored a previous claim that Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan is the “Hitler of our century” on Monday in New York in his first comments since his detainment at a Romanian airport over the weekend.
“I’m open for adoption,” Kanter said on Monday in a news conference at the midtown Manhattan headquarters of the National Basketball Players Association. “My next move is to just become an American citizen.”
The six-year NBA veteran, who has become a high-profile critic of Erdoğan, said his political views prompted the Turkish government to invalidate his passport. He said the first sign of trouble came early on Saturday morning in Jakarta, where he was hosting a basketball clinic.
“My manager knocked on my door around 2.30am and said we need to talk,” Kanter said. “He said the secret service of Indonesia and army is looking for you. Turkish government called them and said he’s a dangerous man, we need to talk to him.”
Kanter, who turned 25 on Saturday, then “kind of escaped the country” on a flight to Singapore, followed by a brief layover in Frankfurt before arriving at Bucharest’s Henri Coanda airport on Saturday at about 1pm, where Romanian border police informed him that his passport had been canceled by Turkish authorities.
A senior government official at the Turkish embassy did not respond to a request from the Guardian for comment.
“It was of course scary because there was a chance they might send me back to Turkey,” Kanter said. “And if they sent me back to Turkey, there’s a chance you guys wouldn’t have heard a word from me the second day.”
Kanter credited the Department of Homeland Security and lawyers for the Thunder and the NBPA for helping broker his return to the US on a flight from London to New York later on Saturday.
The 6ft 10in center said he’s chosen to speak out against Erdoğan, whom he called a “terrible man” and the “Hitler of our century”, after contemplating his visibility as one of Turkey’s most famous professional athletes.
“I’m not a journalist, I’m a basketball player,” Kanter said. “But right now, my family can’t even go out to eat. My brother told me my dad went to the supermarket and they spit on his face. I try to be the voice of those innocent people. I believe whatever it takes is important for those kids and our future. Because those are going to be the kids that make the changes.”
He told reporters that he has refrained from speaking to his parents in Turkey for more than a year over fears their phones have been tapped by the government. “As soon as they are in contact with me, they’d put them in jail,” he said.
He also admitted to receiving death threats on a daily basis, mostly over social media. “Actually, I’ve received two of them today,” Kanter said.
Kanter’s detainment was first made known after he posted a video to Twitter on Saturday morning saying that police officers have “been holding us here for hours” upon his arrival in Bucharest.
He expressed his belief during Monday’s 25-minute remarks that the worldwide dissemination of the message aided his escape. Kanter, who received his green card last year, described himself as “countryless” and hopes the US government will consider accelerating his path to citizenship.
Last year, Kanter revealed he received death threats in response to his support of exiled Muslim cleric Fethullah Gülen, Erdoğan’s political rival. The posts, written in Turkish, included phrases such as “You will die soon” beside ominous images of weapons and nooses.
Kanter spoke out against Erdoğan’s government in March 2016 after a terrorist bombing in Ankara that killed 37 people and injured more than 100, criticizing the country’s obstruction of broadcast media and access to social media.
“There are thousands of people getting kidnapped, put into jail, getting tortured or raped. I stand for what I believe,” he said on Monday. “I hope the whole world is watching this, human rights groups and the European Union. I want people to do something about it.”
Last week, Erdoğan’s visit to the White House was marked by a clash between his security detail and protesters outside the Turkish ambassador’s residence. Nine people were hurt and two arrests were made.
Previously, Kanter, who was tabbed with the No3 overall pick in the 2011 draft, said he was left off Turkey’s national team for EuroBasket 2015 due to his political beliefs, a claim denied by national team coach, Ergin Ataman.
Kanter averaged 14.3 points and 6.7 rebounds in 72 games this season with the Thunder, who lost in the first round of the playoffs to the Houston Rockets.
Chelsea made 114 substitutions in the Premier League this season. That works out at precisely three per game, or 100% of all available sub slots. This reveals extraordinary dedication to the substitutioner’s arts on the part of Antonio Conte. It is an achievement that only one team in all of Premier League history had ever equalled. Clearly, this is a man who values substitutions. All the substitutions. Substitutions for him are not a frivolous matter. He considers them, he cherishes them, he values them and more than anything he uses them.
And he uses them late. Fully 87.7% of his Premier League substitutions have come in the 70th minute or later, 55.3% in the last 10 minutes, and 28.1% in the final five. Six of Michy Batshuayi’s 16 league appearances in 2016 lasted for one minute or less. In three games – away at Middlesbrough and Sunderland, and at home to Bournemouth – he found himself with two substitutions left unused as the game reached its last minute. One can only imagine the scenes of wild panic on the Chelsea bench as Conte successfully fought not to let those changes go to waste.
On Sunday he sacrificed one to a premeditated act of wildly excessive ego-buffing. One imagines this must have particularly hurt the Italian, who found himself suddenly deprived of a beloved substitutional opportunity. The Fiver imagines him silently sobbing during Plain Old John Terry’s lachrymose farewell speech, tears flooding down his face and literally tarnishing his winner’s medal, thinking regretfully of what might have been. Then again, perhaps his role in the plan was greater than it seemed. “We had to find the best solution to celebrate [him], and to involve all the supporters in this celebration,” Conte said. The idea that a club hero of such stature could only be suitably honoured by having a substitution dedicated to him can only have come from a genuine substitution-fancier. Though PO’JT, typically, later took all the credit. They say there is no I in team, but The Fiver notes there are loads in idiotic self-aggrandising substitution.
Near-simultaneously, and not that far away, Leroy Sané was peeling off his shirt at the end of Manchester City’s thrashing of hapless Watford and revealing that he is in possession of an extremely large tattoo of himself. Sané has dedicated his back to an image of his front, an effect he could have managed much more quickly, cheaply and painlessly simply by turning round. And not just any image of himself, either: one of him celebrating a goal scored in what turned into a humbling Big Cup defeat by Monaco. Sané just hasn’t thought this through: when he comes to achieve something he will find he has already used up the greatest canvas nature has given him, and will have to order his tattooist to attempt a miniature recreation on his elbow. Meanwhile, he has turned himself into a walking symbol of football’s rising and risible focus on the self. He will, in short, come to regret this, and not only because the phrase “say that to my face” will cause considerable confusion in the Sané household from now on.
“I read on the internet that many English fans have doubts regarding the safety of visiting Russia. You have nothing to worry about. I will stand up personally for your protection. I promise to accompany you in Moscow and protect you from any problems. I can immediately contact the police, resolve the dispute on logical grounds, and even anticipate a conflict based on the emotions of people around me” – introducing AlanTim, the robot saviour of England fans at Russia 2018. The Fiver can’t see how this could possibly go wrong.
Sign up and receive the best of Big Website’s coverage, every Friday, it says here. Seem to be a curious lack of mentions for The Fiver …
AC Jimbo is off watching muscly men, so Max Rushden is in the hot seat for the latest Football Weekly podcast. Listen now.
The animated story of the Premier League season that was.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“If Dollar really are twice as good as 50 Cent (Fiver letters passim), then it figures that Placido Domingo must be, according to today’s exchange rate, a full 26 times better than 50 Cent. Because, obviously, he’s a tenor” – Tony Crawford.
“Interesting that Friday’s Fiver opened with a picture of some cattle. Makes a change from the usual load of bullocks, or something like that” – Ed Taylor.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Rollover.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Arsenal majority shareholder Stan Kroenke has said his shares “are not, and never have been, for sale” which, in Russian, roughly translates as “Do one Alisher”.
Despite having plenty of recent history of being turned into a shambling mess by overseas owners, the Pompey Supporters’ Trust has voted in favour of selling up to former Disney chief suit Michael Eisner.
Outgoing Watford boss Walter Mazzarri thinks the 5-0 shellacking by City in his final game can still give his team some positives. “Three youngsters played and that is something Watford will have for the future,” he cheered. “These players had a dream come true, playing against one of the best teams in Europe, if not the world.”
Zinedine Zidane almost got animated after Real Madrid’s league title win, saying it was “professionally, the happiest day of my life” before praising his “[effing] fantastic” players, because he likes a good swear.
West Ham have located the button that automatically extends goalkeeper contracts until 2019 and Slaven Bilic has pressed it. “Adrián is out of contract but we have an option, and we activated that option,” he trilled. “He is our player and we are happy with him.”
Freiburg coach Christian Streich is feeling funky that the second half of their 4-1 defeat at Bayern – for which they had something to play for – was delayed by eight minutes so Anastacia could do some warbling. “Without being disrespectful to the artist, it’s a football stadium and it’s madness you have to wait as a team,” he fumed.
And Amiens defender Oualid El Hajjam revealed he was leaking salty tears of despair during their promotion-decider against Reims before a 96th-minute goal bumped his side up from sixth to second and into Ligue 1 for the first time. “I cried during the match, I had tears in my eyes, that’s how badly I wanted to win,” he sobbed. “We weren’t winning, and I almost gave up. But at the end, they became tears of joy.”
Deep breath … the Premier League 2016-17 season review: our writers’ best and worst, right here.
Simon Burnton poured himself a pint of wine before offering his contenders for Premier League manager of the season, including Sam Allardyce and sizzling Sean Dyche.
Paul Doyle woefully overlooks Simone Zaza in his suggestions for Premier League player of the season.
Swansea City’s basketball game with Palace is on Barry Glendenning’s list of Premier League matches of the season – it also reminded The Fiver that Bob Bradley actually happened.
Go on, see if you can do something more original than adding a “What, no Emre Can?” comment to this Premier League gooooooooooooooooooooaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaallllllllllllllllllllllllll of the season contenders blog by Paul Doyle.
Barry Glendenning’s back with his suggestions for Premier League signing of the season, including a humble striker and gong-magnet N’Golo Kanté.
Look out, yelps Sid Lowe, Real Madrid have won the league and made it to the final of Big Cup with a coach who is only just getting going.
Hamburg’s famous clock keeps on ticking after their late Bundesliga escape, whoops Andy Brassell.
Blimey, Juventus are good, is the general gist of this blog by Paolo Bandini after the club’s sixth consecutive Serie A title.
Like Granny Fiver when she became great, PSG have lost their identity, write Adam White and Eric Devin.
Wade into these takes between Jamie Jackson and Tim Rolls over whether PO’JT’s guard of honour send-off was fair or farce.
Oh, and here are 10 talking points from the final day of the Premier League season because we really haven’t given you enough already, have we?
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
For a moment there Marcelo looked a bit worried. Danilo, Casemiro and Lucas Vázquez bundled back out of the press room a little less noisily than they had bundled in, chanting and spraying champagne about. Álvaro Morata followed them, getting out of the manager’s chair and taking the bottle off the desk as he departed. The Brazilian pushed him towards the door but then paused. Glancing down a little sheepishly, he picked up the TV they’d knocked as they bounced around and set about trying to fix it. From one side, Lucas said something: “Come on.” From the other, Zinedine Zidane smiled that smile and held out an arm. So Marcelo gave up, laid the screen down, hugged his coach and left, letting out a whoop when he went.
Through the door to the right, round the corridor to the left and up the slope at one corner of the Rosaleda, Real Madrid’s league title winners were starting to head to the bus, most wearing T-shirts the kitman had handed out at full-time on the final day, 33 on the back. Keylor Navas, head shaved as promised, dedicated the title to children with cancer and vowed to fight for his future. Pepe and Málaga midfielder Duda, who’d just played his last game, hid in a quiet corner drinking from cans wrapped in white paper. Cristiano Ronaldo was insisting he’s no saint, but not the devil either. Isco said: “Relax, I’m staying.” And staff embraced. The driver was beaming.
Back in the press room Zidane wasn’t fixing anything but he had been left to tidy up. He shook a bit, wiped the champagne from his suit, straightened his chair and sat back down, composing himself, as if it had never happened. Now, what were we saying? What he had been saying before the noise had risen, the door flung open and the players paraded in, soaking him and singing campeones was that this was the happiest day of his career. Yes, Zidane, World Cup winner, European champion with club and country, Champions League winner six months after becoming first team coach, said this moment, not those, was his best. If he wasn’t going wild, that’s just him. “I’d like to get up here and dance. I’m not going to, but on the inside I’m very, very happy,” he said.
“Honestly.”
This was still Zidane’s floor, his chance to explain what it all meant, the moment he had been working towards. So he spoke quietly and everyone listened. Asked if he had enjoyed it, he replied: “Today.” After nine months, all that “suffering” – a word he repeated endlessly all year – at last he could and it meant everything. He repeated what he’d said before he was interrupted: this was the best moment of his career, one he’d like share with his brother, “even though he doesn’t understand anything I say in Spanish … There are no words to define this … We live for this … The league is the top … Spectacular.” Asked if there had been tears, he replied: “No … maybe later.”
All of which might read like a bit of an exaggeration, but there was something in it. There was a lot in it, in fact. Ronaldo scored and Real Madrid won the league: it sounds normal but it is not. Ronaldo is 33 and he joined Madrid back in 2009, yet until Sunday night he had won just one league with them. Madrid hadn’t won it the year before he arrived, either. Of the first-team squad, only eight had ever won a league anywhere. This was Real Madrid’s 33rd title but it was also their first in five years, their second in nine. Not just any club – Real Madrid, the biggest, richest, most successful club there is.
It wasn’t enough. Over the previous eight seasons, Barcelona had won six, Madrid just one. Atlético had as many. If the league is the true measure of a team, the biggest club of all didn’t measure up. Even their 10th and 11th (yes, 10th and 11th) European Cups, while they eclipse everything, didn’t entirely rid them of that nagging realisation. So the club that built its identity through the European Cup made the league its priority. They did so very publicly: from the start, they said it, led by Zidane – it was about taking the title. As it turns out, they could yet take both. Madrid are one game from a first league and European Cup double in 59 years. Their last eight continental titles came without the domestic title. This is historic, even for them.
For much of the season, this campaign defied easy analysis. Madrid went 40 games without defeat, yet daft though it may sound, they did not always convince. By the end, though, they did – more than Barcelona, even if the gap was only three points, a solitary win. “They deserve it,” said Andrés Iniesta.
Madrid won the league because Barcelona lost it too of course. For all the brilliance of the front three, and a record 116 goals scored, they never rid themselves of that sense of vulnerability, the dependence on Lionel Messi, and that was underlined in Europe. Too often the team once defined by their midfield didn’t really have one. Luis Enrique’s side won at San Mamés, the Bernabéu, Mestalla, the Pizjuán and the Calderón, but the final day, when they had to come from behind against Eibar, ultimately felt like it defined their season more. The cover of Sport read simply: “Oh no.” Barcelona had been beaten by Alavés, Celta and Málaga. They went to Deportivo three days after that win against Paris Saint-Germain and lost, their fate definitively out of their hands.
Madrid weren’t about to let them take it back again; even defeat in the clásico didn’t do that. Madrid’s late goals – in a quarter of their matches they had taken points by scoring in the last 10 minutes – were replaced by early ones, more assuredness. At the same time, they knocked Bayern and Atlético out of Europe. In their last six league games the list of minutes in which they got their first goal reads: 1, 27, 3, 10, 10, 2 (although against Valencia they then needed a late winner). On the final day, they were leading after one minute and 37 seconds, Ronaldo striding through to score, any drama or tension gone. Those final three matches were supposed to be hard but Sevilla, Celta and Málaga were all defeated. Ten goals, they scored.
Madrid scored in every game this season, and via every route. Via pretty much every player, too. Not including the three goalkeepers, only Fábio Coentrão – a case apart – and Dani Carvajal didn’t score. Nineteen others did. This title was all of theirs, not just something some players watched others win from the bench or the stands. Obsessed with physical condition, Zidane talked about effectively having to play two seasons in one and didn’t just rotate two or three players at a time; as spring came, he rotated eight or nine. Even Kiko Casilla, the back-up goalkeeper, was given minutes. The substitutes offered solutions, the strength in depth extraordinary. Most weeks, the men sitting on the bench would make up a five-a-side team to take pretty much anyone on. By the April and May, they weren’t sitting on the bench most weeks any more.
As the second string went away and won four weeks in a row, it was tempting to adapt Bill Shankly’s famous quote; there are two great teams in Madrid – Real Madrid and Real Madrid reserves. At times, they were better than the first-choice side had been, yet they were helping the first-choice side be better too. There was frustration, sure – James Rodríguez and Morata both admitted as much – and some were uneasy with Zidane saying the BBC were non-negotiable, while exits will be sought in the summer, but ultimately they were all made to feel like participants. By the end 20 players reached 1,000 minutes or more. Madrid’s second and third top scorers, Isco and Morata, were not regular starters. Nor was James, but he got eight goals and six assists.
Isco was not a starter to begin with, anyway. By the end, with Gareth Bale’s absence, he was. Others had stood out over the course of a season which went through various phases – Marcelo, especially – but as it reached the final, decisive weeks, Isco was Madrid’s most impressive player, alongside Ronaldo. With Isco, Toni Kroos and Luka Modric took a step forward too. There was control now. There were also goals. It felt appropriate that the goal that settled it was made by Isco and finished by Ronaldo, whose season was turned back to front and ultimately proved much the better for it. The story of 2016-17 was Madrid’s supporting cast until the final weeks – and then it was him again.
Back in August, Zidane sought Ronaldo out and explained his plan to protect the Portuguese, trying to convince him that it was not just a case of how many goals he scored, but which goals he scored. He told him, too, that this was a path to prolonging his career; not just a way of reaching the end of this season in better shape but reaching next season too and the season after that. There was no point in flying through September and October only to struggle to the finish line in May, as he had done for the last few years. Ronaldo listened. That conversation now looks like Zidane’s greatest success.
“I have played seven, eight games fewer than previous seasons and that showed at the end: we have managed it more intelligently,” Ronaldo said. In fact, it is 11. “These are the games things are decided in,” he added, and it is his goals that have decided them. He has scored 40 this season, 14 of them in the last 40 days. At the Rosaleda, he got the goal that took Madrid towards a title that had resisted them and, as he put it, left them “one step from making history”. All that under a coach who is only just beginning.
Four years ago, Zidane admitted that he didn’t know if he would make a good manager but he wanted to find out. He’d had enough of hanging about, doing nothing in particular; he wanted to do something real. So he prepared – properly. Others were not convinced, including at the club, but increasingly he was. On the day he was presented he was asked what counted as success. “Winning everything,” he said. It seemed implausible that day, but it turns out he was right.
After five months he won the European Cup, now he has won the league – and this success feels much more like it is his than Milan did, the doubts that surrounded him decreasing by the day. It had been long and hard he said, but the satisfaction lay in precisely that – in the work, the leadership, the sense of responsibility. “I live what I am doing with passion,” Zidane said. “After nine, 10 months, to win the league five years later … pfff … there are no words. When you are at Real Madrid you know the expectations are high and I like that. I lived that as a player but this is my happiest day because as a coach it changes completely.”
Madrid had won the league, at last. What now, Zidane was asked. After all, there is another European Cup final to come too. Sitting there soaked in champagne, the bus waiting outside to take them to the airport and from there to Madrid, where they were due to land at 2am and where a crowd had been gathering before the game had even ended, so sure were they that the wait was over, Zidane smiled. “Now? Now, we’re going to celebrate,” he said. “We’ll go to Cibeles to see the people because the people have to see their team.”
• There were tears on the final day; there was Fernando Torres too. The Kid, who is no longer a kid, scored twice in the opening 10 minutes of the last ever Atlético Madrid match at the Vicente Calderón. Nostalgia took hold, the club’s title winners brought together for a giant team photo, banners round the stadium recalling the men and the moments that marked the place over 50 years, the feelings too, and a huge mosaic declared: “How I love you.” They walked down Melancholics’ Way for the last time, its name more appropriate than ever before – and it has long been appropriate. It was a mess, it was falling down, but it was home. Now they’re moving to A Stadium Called Wanda, right over on the other side of the city, another world, and things will never be the same again. There may yet be hope that they might still be quite good, though. Afterwards Diego Simeone confirmed that he was staying. “There is a future at this club and it is all of us,” he said.
• And in the very last minute, it came. Juanmi’s 94th-minute header took Real Sociedad into Europe at the expense of Athletic (for now, at least). “We deserved it,” manager Eusebio insisted. They’ll be joined by Villarreal, who won at Mestalla, where caretaker coach, former player and long-time match-day delegate Voro was saying goodbye at the end of his fifth and final spell in charge of the first team. “It’s been a difficult journey,” he said. Where it takes him now is not clear, but it’s not likely to be far – they’re looking for a role for him at the club.
• “It was beautiful,” Eduardo Berizzo said as he left Balaídos for the last time. He said he had done everything he could to stay, but that it was not to be. The fans knew who they blamed, chanting their support for him and their rejection of the president.
• And so Tony Adams finished his season in the sun by equalling La Liga’s record with his clean sweep. Seven games, seven defeats, 17 conceded and second division bound – bottom.
• Sevilla won 5-0, racked up their second best-ever points tally, and finished in a Champions League place, but still they whistled manager Jorge Sampaoli, who headed off down the tunnel at the end of the game. Asked why he thought the fans whistled him on the eve of the game, he said: “Because the journalists have won – they got what they wanted.” More to the point, they whistled because they felt he hadn’t told the truth, because they couldn’t understand why he hadn’t admitted his desire to coach Argentina sooner. “I’m not going for cash, if I go, I’m going because it’s my country,” he finally said. The AFA will have to pay his way out of his contract, though.
• Butarque party! Leganés, one of only four teams never to have been relegated from the first division, ended their season with a belting goal from David Timor – and a celebration to mark their survival.
Results: Granada 1-2 Espanyol, Sporting 2–2 Betis, Leganés 1–1 Alavés, Deportivo 3–0 Las Palmas, Sevilla 5–0 Osasuna, Atlético 3–1 Athletic, Valencia 1–3 Villarreal, Celta 2–2 Real Sociedad, Barcelona 4–2 Eibar, Málaga 0–2 Madrid.
Champions: Real Madrid
Champions League places: Barcelona, Atlético, Sevilla
Europa League places: Villarreal, Real Sociedad. And either Alavés (if they win the Copa del Rey on Saturday against Barcelona) or Athletic Bilbao (if they don’t).
Relegated: Granada, Osasuna, Sporting.
Pichichi: Messi, 37.
Top-scoring Spaniard: Iago Aspas, 19.
Zamora: Jan Oblak.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Loud was the laughter that greeted the announcement Chelsea were to re-sign David Luiz from Paris Saint-Germain for a sum estimated to be in the region of £34m last summer. With the benefit of a season’s worth of hindsight, only the most contrarian of his critics could argue the likeable Brazilian was anything other than a bargain. A defensive rock and natural leader who rarely put a foot wrong during Chelsea’s imperious title-winning campaign, David Luiz will forever be tainted by that semi-final humiliation at the 2014 World Cup, on an evening when the entire Brazil team had a collective meltdown and singling any one individual out for ridicule seemed rather unfair. With his distinctive hairstyle, he tends to stand out when he makes mistakes, allowing his detractors in the press box, TV studios and stadium stands to pounce on the increasingly rare occasions he gets things wrong. Their silence this season has spoken volumes. Nevertheless, despite all available evidence to the contrary, some still cling to the defeat against Germany in their efforts to argue the 30-year-old is a joke. While he prepares for the final assault on his fifth major honour across two short spells as a Chelsea player, one can’t help but wonder who’s laughing now?
Even on one leg, he continues to amaze. While it’s advisable to take anything Mino Raiola says with a shovel-full of salt, the garrulous agent’s assertion that surgeons were so impressed with his client Zlatan’s Ibrahimovic’s injured knee that they would like to use him for research purposes brought a wry smile to those of us who wondered if the 35-year-old might struggle to make an impression playing in the Premier League for the first time. A free transfer, albeit one who is rumoured to be trousering £367,640 per week and who almost certainly got a hefty signing on fee for both himself and his representative, Ibrahimovic scored 28 goals in 46 appearances in all competitions for Manchester United – a fairly astonishing feat when one considers Marcus Rashford has been United’s next most prolific scorer this season with 11. Ibrahimovic also has nine assists to his name and we can only speculate how much more he might have contributed to the cause if his season hadn’t been curtailed by injury and he was playing in a Manchester United team managed by somebody other than than the risk-averse and ridiculously negative José Mourinho. Without his input, Manchester United would have had little or no chance of matching last year’s finishing position of sixth this time around. Get well soon, big fella.
A target of Arsenal and Manchester United during his days as a 21-year-old at Celtic, both clubs must rue letting Southampton get the jump on them to sign him for a bargain £12.5m before moving him on to Spurs for even less. Reunited with his former manager Mauricio Pochettino, the Kenyan has been consistently outstanding in Tottenham’s midfield, embracing all aspects of the grunt work that prompted his manager to label him “the perfect player”. Energetic? Tick. Aggressive? Tick. A voracious devourer of loose balls with an impressive passing range? Tickety-tick tick tick. Still only 25, Wanyama has scope for further improvement and appears a more than willing learner. He has curbed the “enthusiasm” that earned him three red cards last season, replacing them with goals instead. Ably assisted by marauding full-backs Kyle Walker and Danny Rose, Christian Eriksen and Dele Alli may provide the stardust in Tottenham’s midfield, but the creative freedom with which Wanyama and Mousa Dembélé provide all four has been instrumental in making Pochettino’s side the most exciting in the Premier League.
With his searing pace over short distances, close control and ability to stretch opposing defences, Sadio Mané has proved an inspired signing for Liverpool since his arrival from Southampton for £34m. Far from taking time to settle into his new surroundings, it was his mesmerising intervention that ensured his side took all three points in an opening weekend white-knuckle ride against Arsenal and he has chipped in with 12 Premier League goals since, despite missing sizeable chunks of the season through Africa Cup of Nations duty with Senegal and, more recently, injury. Indeed, with his ability to wreak havoc between the defensive lines of rival teams, it could be argued that Liverpool are a little over-reliant on their Senegalese speed-merchant. While he was away in Gabon in January, Liverpool took only one league point from nine available and got knocked out of the FA Cup by Wolves, suggesting the value of his contribution is never more apparent than when he isn’t around to make it.
The usual stuff, except more of it and this time he’s got the PFA Player of the Year and Football Writers’ Player of the Year gongs to show for it.
Russia has been told it has until early September to implement a range of anti-doping reforms or it will be “very difficult” for its athletes to compete in the 2018 PyeongChang Winter Paralympics.
The warning came from Sir Philip Craven, the president of the International Paralympic Committee, who also admitted that, unless “something dramatically changes”, Russian track and field stars would also miss out on the London 2017 World Para Athletics Championships in July.
Craven said: “With 291 days to go until PyeongChang 2018, there is not a moment to waste. The IPC taskforce will next update the IPC governing board in September and, if the obligations have not been fully met by then, it will be very difficult for the Russian Paralympic Committee to have its suspension lifted in time to enter its athletes into the Paralympic Winter Games.
“Clearly, with this timeline in mind, unless something dramatic changes in the next few weeks, Russia will not be able to enter its athletes into the London 2017 World Para Athletics Championships.”
Russia topped the 2014 Winter Paralympics medal table with 80 medals – 55 ahead of their nearest rivals, Ukraine. However, it has been suspended from all IPC-organised events, including the 2016 Paralympic Games in Rio, after a report by Richard McLaren for the World Anti-Doping Agency found evidence it had manipulated its testing programme to hide positive doping results, including at Sochi.
There was a glimpse of light from Andy Parkinson, the chair of the IPC taskforce, who said that Russia had made some progress, despite several key criteria not being met. Yet he also warned that much more needed to be done.
“The evidence is quite clear: the problems identified were far beyond individual athlete violations and a doping system that was not strong enough to catch those athletes,” Parkinson said. “Instead the system itself and the institutions that support this system were operating with the objective of circumventing the very rules the system was responsible to uphold.
“Unless and until these problems are fully addressed, the taskforce is of the view there can be no meaningful change in culture and it would be almost impossible for Russian Para athletes to return to IPC-sanctioned competitions without jeopardising the integrity of those competitions.
“The issue of access to Para athletes in closed cities has been a problem for many years and still remains unresolved. Finally, the issue of the reinstatement by Wada of Rusada remains a key criterion for the RPC’s reinstatement.”
The John Terry farrago in a word: mawkish.
To decide a walk-off in minute 26 of Chelsea’s final Premier League game, with a guard of honour from team-mates and applause from Sunderland, was the fitting way to close 19 stellar years at the club is a massive misjudgment from all involved. The result: an unedifying episode that rated cloying and overly sentimental.
Terry is the chief culprit here. The view that the match meant nothing because Chelsea were already champions and Sunderland already relegated is wrong. There was something fundamental riding on the game as there is on any professional (or amateur) sporting event: the integrity of the competition.
At stake on Sunday at Stamford Bridge before the global millions tuning in was the Premier League’s sovereignty. What matters is that, whatever the context, a match in England’s top flight should be competed for honestly.
Instead, Terry’s final home outing became a personal testimonial. Instead, the previously faultless Antonio Conte made an error he may regret. By agreeing to the Terry-related stunt the manager allowed his superb team to be overshadowed and the 112-year-old institution that is Chelsea reduced to a walk on part in the JT Show.
The roll call of other puppets is wide-ranging. These include Sunderland AFC, whose 138-year history now includes agreeing to boot the ball out at the Terry-appropriate time; David Moyes, the manager whose follow-up act to guiding the Black Cats to relegation in bottom place was bending again to an opponent’s will watched by travelling fans surely sick of the spectacle; and Diego Costa and Jordan Pickford, who were also co-opted as the striker demanded the goalkeeper put the ball out. Throw in, too, those forced into the guard of honour and a Premier League executive which has serious questions to answer.
This was a farce that should never be repeated. Jamie Jackson
So John Terry ends his Chelsea playing career, after more than 700 games (mostly as captain), 67 goals and a shoal of trophies. The ultimate one-club loyalist. In the 50 years since I first watched Chelsea the only comparable club figure in terms of duration of captaincy and number of appearances is Ron Harris, who played 795 games in the 1960s and 1970s and captained the side for a decade. Harris remains, to this day, visibly proud he played for the club and a truly iconic figure to supporters of that generation.
It is not hard to see younger Chelsea supporters of today having the same respect for Terry in four decades. There have arguably been better Chelsea footballers – Osgood, Cooke, Zola, Hazard for starters – but apart from Harris probably none who epitomises the love of the club, the loyalty and never-say-die spirit that supporters want to see.
To outsiders Terry may be a Marmite figure but to Chelsea supporters he is a truly iconic man, a tower of strength at the club for so long, a winner. To captain the team to so much success, shows an extraordinary strength of character. He captained teams of strong personalities but was always the unquestioned leader. Even in the autumn of his Chelsea career he has been totally supportive of Antonio Conte. There has been no whingeing to the media, no sulking. He leaves with head held high.
The 26th-minute tribute to Terry seems, for reasons I fail to comprehend, to have upset a unholy alliance of moralists, social media bedwetters and bandwagon jumpers. It would not have happened a generation ago and to be honest is not really my cup of tea. However it hurt nobody, it took little time, it did not affect the match in any way, Sunderland fans did not seem upset by it and 40,000 Chelsea supporters clearly appreciated it. Frankly, football has bigger things to worry about. The whole Premier League trophy presentation ceremony is ludicrously overblown anyway and, by going off when he did, it meant the focus at the final whistle was more on the team, less on JT.
To Chelsea supporters lucky enough to have watched the team over nearly two decades John Terry is, and will remain, Captain, Leader, Legend. Tim Rolls
Tim Rolls is a Chelsea season ticket holder and Supporters Trust board member. His book Diamonds, Dynamos and Devils is due out this autumn on Gate 17 Books
The Pompey Supporters’ Trust (PST) has voted in favour of former Walt Disney chief executive Michael Eisner’s proposal to buy the League Two champions.
Paul Cook’s side secured promotion as the south-coast club, who were in the top flight as recently as 2010, plot a return up the divisions.
The PST, the club’s principal shareholder, controls 48.5% of Portsmouth’s current ownership structure and has three members on the board of directors.
The supporter shareholders were presented with a 48-page document as California-based Eisner, whose 70-day exclusivity period runs until 1 June, also aims to invest an additional £10m in equity should the £5.67m deal go through.
The 2,272 PST shareholders had until Friday evening to cast their vote on the offer of Eisner’s Tornante investment group to buy 100% of the 2008 FA Cup winners. There was a 93.6% turnout with 1,825 shareholders voting to sell the PST shares.
The club’s 16 individual shareholders - ‘the Presidents’ - have also agreed to sell their stakes.
A Portsmouth club statement read: “Seventy-five per cent of the Presidents have voted to sell their respective stakes in the club, representing 32.9% of the club’s equity.
“Together with the PST’s 48.5%, this means 81.4% of the club’s equity holding is in agreement with the sale. The threshold to approve a sale, as laid down in the shareholders’ agreement, is 75%.”
Discussions on the timeline for the formal takeover process will now begin.
The PST chairman, Ashley Brown, said in a statement: “This is true fan ownership and democracy at work. Our fans decided who the next owner of our club would be – and it will be Michael Eisner and Tornante.
“The Trust board would like to wish Michael the very best of luck. We believe he understands the importance of the custodianship of Pompey and will be an owner all fans will be proud of. We look forward to working with him, his family and Tornante for many years to come.”
Humiliating may sound like an extreme word for Paris Saint-Germain’s season but the last 10 months have verged on the disastrous for the club. This time last year they strolled to their fourth title in a row, finishing 31 points clear of Lyon and Monaco as they won their second consecutive French treble. It was easy, as it had been for some time, but they have stagnated this season. And now, with Monaco surpassing them as Ligue 1’s premier side, the club’s identity has to be called into question.
Since the QSI takeover in 2011, Paris Saint-Germain’s focus has been on one thing: Europe. Winning the Champions League and becoming one of the continent’s elite sides was the reason the club was purchased. With their overwhelming pool of resources, domestic dominance was assured sooner or later, but Europe has now become an obsession. Laurent Blanc was dispensed with last summer despite his clean sweep of French honours, after another lacklustre exit from the Champions League. After winning a trio of Europa League titles at Sevilla, Unai Emery was enlisted to bring PSG success abroad and maintain it at home. However, despite the €125m invested in playing staff and the swathes of quality already in situ, this season has not only proven to be one of regression but has put the whole “project” into question.
It is worth noting that this has been a hugely successful season for French football on the whole. A pair of European semi-finalists in the irresistible Monaco and the freewheeling but often flaky Lyon made France the second most represented nation at the semi-final stage. It validated the notion that enough talent is being nurtured by Ligue 1 clubs for them to realise their potential and challenge in Europe after a long period of underachievement. Monaco’s glorious championship win and Nice’s strong title challenge made Ligue 1 compelling, aided by the latest onslaught of exciting breakthrough talent, with Monaco’s phenomenal Kylian Mbappé at the head.
In contrast to recent years, the profile of French football has been enhanced in spite of Paris Saint-Germain rather than because of them. Serious psychological failings in their biggest European matches were already evident under Blanc but they have been exposed to disastrous effect this season, most obviously in Barcelona, ensuring that this summer will be both crucial and full of uncertainty. The rest of the league has gained substantial ground on Paris Saint-Germain and they are in danger of becoming stale.
An overhaul is desperately needed but their policy of throwing money at marquee signings needs to be scrapped. Monaco have proved that effective, compelling and successful football can be achieved through intelligent scouting, considered squad building and investing in young talent. Granted, Monaco also have a billionaire owner, but their operating budget is roughly a third of PSG’s and their squad contains players carefully developed in their own academy plus those pinpointed as having potential from France and further afield. Paris Saint-Germain’s quasi-galáctico ethos has given them a squad lacking in heart, mental fortitude and, on the whole, any real emotional investment into the club.
The signing of Ángel Di María two seasons ago exemplifies this problem. Di María, a potentially world class player who had won the Champions League, seemed like a natural signing but the deterioration of his form and, seemingly, his attitude at Manchester United made him more of a mercenary, a gun for hire, who was hoping to escape England, which made his motivation for signing for Paris Saint-Germain questionable at best.
Of course, a large percentage of footballers – and people – will move where the money is but, to be successful at the highest level, desire usually has to be fed by more than just financial gain. Di María has been magical at times but, during the genuine pressure points he has often been anonymous, petulant and even cowering. His childish sending off at Nice last month was just the most recent example. Paris Saint-Germain appears to mean little to him and some of his colleagues.
Marco Verratti’s progression should be used as the blueprint for Paris Saint-Germain’s future dealings. A hugely talented player with great potential, he signed for the club at a young age and was given the chance to develop and embed himself in the city and its team. Paris is now his home and it is clear by his ferocious play, his passion and his leadership that Paris Saint-Germain means something to him. His will to win extends beyond the desire for the next contract. Clubs that win the Champions League often boast a core of players who have become ingrained at the club and developed an emotional bond that cannot be bought. Engendering that connection takes time. But time often appears to be the only thing that QSI are not willing to invest.
Monaco were bought by Russian oligarch Dmitry Rybolovlev soon after QSI’s arrival and, after briefly flirting with a policy of big spending, their forced change of direction has proven to be a blessing. They have built their team carefully. Young players have been allowed to grow together over the past few years and develop into an effective, passionate group. They outperformed Paris Saint-Germain’s best result in the Champions League under QSI and stole the league title by playing the kind of exuberant, fearless football the Paris Saint-Germain owners have always craved. Paris Saint-Germain are currently like a spoilt child who has been showered with gifts; they may have everything they want but, like a toddler, they are achieving very little.
The club have not used their academy enough in recent years, something Emery is trying to rectify. Faith has been placed in Adrien Rabiot, while academy graduates such as midfielder Christopher Nkunku, goalkeeper Alphonse Areola and defender Presnel Kimpembe have all been given more responsibility this season, the latter in particular showing his qualities. In previous years they would have been sent on loan or given just a handful of minutes.
The leadership is also changing. Sporting Director Olivier Létang left last month while Patrick Kluivert’s position as Director of Football has been under threat – the club toyed with the idea of hiring Monchi, the man responsible for Sevilla’s superb player recruitment of recent years, before he eventually joined Roma. They have also been rebuffed in their efforts to recruit Atlético Madrid’s Technical Director Andrea Berta. Kluivert has been perhaps the most bizarre signing of the QSI era, his name again counting for a lot and his lack of credentials for little. The fact he did not recognise new signing Thomas Meunier, who had just played for Belgium at Euro 2016, on PSG’s summer tour last year says everything.
Paris Saint-Germain finished the Ligue 1 campaign with 87 points and they will probably win both domestic cups but this is little more than treading water. The nuanced way in which the new champions have handled their squad and has made PSG’s philosophy appear ignorant and shallow by comparison. This summer will be a crucial one for their “project”. The lack of progress has started to breed further uncertainty. Verratti, the club’s prized asset, may have seen enough. He is reportedly tempted by Juventus, Barcelona and others. He does not seem to want to leave Paris but he might have to if he is to continue to develop – and he might not be alone in that regard.
Pivotal decisions need to be made: about the position of the manager, the long-term role of ageing captain Thiago Silva, and who will oversee recruitment, to highlight just a handful. Paris Saint-Germain have achieved a significant amount for Ligue 1 in the last few years but they have reached a ceiling – one they have been hitting their heads against for some time. If they do not radically change tact soon, that ceiling could turn out to be their peak. French football is changing; they need to keep up.
• Bordeaux will have a keen eye on the French cup final next weekend. Having finished sixth in the league, they now need Paris Saint-Germain to beat Angers to guarantee their passage into the Europa League. Paris Saint-Germain have not lost a cup match since the 2014 Coupe de France, so Bordeaux will be feeling confident. Marseille will have no such worries, after finishing fifth. Given the club’s bigger aims, the third qualifying round of the Europa League may seem like a poor return, but fifth place was not easy to obtain; they finished the season on an 11-match unbeaten run, which included a 4-0 thrashing of Saint-Étienne and a home win against in-form Nice. There were also mediocre draws at Lille, Toulouse and Nancy in that run, but given that they were in 12th place in November, fifth is a just reward for a maturing side. It shows improvement over the season and also allows Marseille to offer the carrot of European football next season to potential recruits, which could be vital as they look to restructure the team over the summer.
• Nicolas de Preville’s hat-trick against Nantes was hardly the stuff of dreams – one was a penalty and the two goals from open play had more to do the visitors’ defensive miscues than De Preville’s ability – but the goals took him to 14 for the season, an impressive total considering his first goal was only scored in Week 15. De Preville does not really have a set position – he’s not quite a striker, or a winger, or an attacking midfielder – which has put Franck Passi off starting him. De Preville faced similar issues last season with Reims, where he took on more of a creative role behind a variety of misfiring strikers, but given a better platform with his move north, he has sparkled. His future, at age 26, may be in some doubt as Lille embark on a youth-oriented transfer strategy, but given how vital his goals have been in avoiding relegation, the club would be foolish not to buy the player outright after his initial “loan” from Belgian side Oostende, a club owned by one of Lille’s previous shareholders, Mark Coucke, in a move that allowed Lille to bypass the scrutiny of the French football financial watchdog last summer.
• The battle to avoid relegation in Ligue 1 lacked the sizzle of the Ligue 2 promotion race, with a flurry of late goals shuffling Lens and Troyes into and out of automatic promotion, but did have its own bit of late drama. Caen were trailing 1-0 at Paris Saint-Germain going into stoppage time and were sitting in the play-off place on goal difference when Ronny Rodelin turned Maxwell to prod home Jonathan Delaplace’s cross, the match finishing 1-1. Caen probably have enough talent to beat Troyes, the third-placed team from Ligue 2, but were saved a potentially awkward pair of matches. Rodelin’s goal was also a measure of personal redemption after he had been dropped twice in recent matches and missed a penalty earlier in the match. The lanky attacker has not been quite as impressive as last season, with Ivan Santini more of the team’s focal point, but his class and ability have been key, making his permanent move from Lille last summer worth every penny.
• Alexandre Lacazette called time on his Lyon career in fine fashion against Nice, scoring a brace to take him to an even 100 goals in the league. Lyon could only draw, even against a weakened Nice, though, in a match that was a painful microcosm of their season. Lyon’s attack, particularly Lacazette, was impressive, and should have done enough to seal a victory but defensive errors from Nicolas N’Koulou (a poor backpass and a wayward arm leading to a penalty) led to them dropping points. With his team-mates consistently undoing his good work, it is no wonder Lacazette has had enough of his boyhood club. Linked with the always-solid Atlético Madrid, Lacazette has been a good servant for Lyon over the years, but with his 26th birthday next week, he in his prime and deserves a chance to play for a side whose defensive organisation can make his efforts worthwhile.
Angers 2-0 Montpellier, Guingamp 1-0 Metz, Lille 3-0 Nantes, Lorient 1-1 Bordeaux, Lyon 3-3 Nice, Marseille 1-0 Bastia, Nancy 3-1 Saint-Étienne, Paris Saint-Germain 1-1 Caen, Rennes 2-3 Monaco, Toulouse 0-0 Dijon.
• This is an article from Get French Football News• Follow Eric Devin, Adam White and Get French Football News on Twitter
“No, HSV haven’t won the championship,” said the voiceover on ZDF’s Das Aktuelle Sportstudio as they rolled footage of jubilant Hamburg SV supporters streaming on to the Volksparkstadion pitch. “They’ve stayed up.” There may be widespread incredulity around Germany as to just what constitutes success for the 1983 European Cup winners these days, but very few among the 57,000 sell-out crowd on Saturday cared about that.
It had been the latest improbable moment in what has become an improbable role that HSV play in the Bundesliga. The little-used Luca Waldschmidt had come on as substitute in the 86th minute, with the home side still searching for the winning goal that would allow them to avoid a third relegation play-off in four seasons and propel visitors Wolfsburg into it in their stead; 112 seconds later and Waldschmidt – or “Lucky Luca”, as Hamburger Morgenpost has already dubbed him – applied a perfect headed finish to Filip Kostic’s inviting delivery, and Hamburg were in dreamland.
Waldschmidt, having scored a first Bundesliga goal a day after turning 21, didn’t seem to know what to do, pulling out a token attempt at Antoine Griezmann’s Hotline Bling routine before settling for being submerged under a mountain of team-mates and staff. There was still time for Hamburg to nearly lose their hard-won freedom, with Christian Mathenia making a crucial, sprawling save from Wolfsburg substitute Max Arnold in stoppage time. The 25-year-old goalkeeper had already made outstanding stops from Mario Gómez and Jakub Blaszczykowski in the first half.
The final whistle went, and it was chaos. With thousands piling on and overrun stewards vainly attempting to make sense of it all, a pair of them apprehended injured striker Pierre-Michel Lasogga, who scored the last-gasp equaliser at Schalke last week but whom the fluorescent-jacketed helpers didn’t recognise, with one grabbing him from the front and the other pulling his arm behind his back. A photograph in Sunday’s Mopo captured Lasogga vainly trying to identify himself, jabbing an index finger from his free hand into his own chest. The same fate befell injured midfielder Aaron Hunt and the club’s press officer Till Müller, before the trio were released amid incredulous chuckles.
On the field, the party had continued, below the famous clock celebrating Der Dino’s unbroken status as the Bundesliga’s only ever-present, which ticked into its 270th day beyond 53 years as full-time arrived. The effervescent Lewis Holtby, clad in nothing more than the club’s equally renowned red shorts, led the chants from atop the dugout.
Later, fans were photographed on local trains making their way home with goalposts including, in one case, a group of young men shuffling down the platform at a local train station with a crossbar in tow. By Saturday night, local police had recovered it, but both posts were still at large.
Those fans had played a huge role all day, starting from the moment when the team coach was greeted by thousands lining the route into the Volkspark – a scene reminiscent of Werder Bremen’s reception as they arrived on the final day of last season, which ended with loanee Papy Djilobodji scrambling home a late goal to beat and leapfrog opponents Eintracht Frankfurt, who ultimately survived the play-off.
Amid the mania in Hamburg, though, it was left to coach Markus Gisdol – who was in the thick of the celebrations himself, both at the final whistle and on the top of the dugout, post-beer shower – to try and bring a bit of perspective to the situation. “We have to draw sensible conclusions from this,” said the former Hoffenheim coach. “I can’t stand it again,” he almost pleaded.Clearly, big improvement is imperative. As the minutes ticked on and it got harder to see where the breakthrough would come from, it was hard not to bring to mind the statistic that Hamburg created less chances than any other Bundesliga team this season. Cold analysis must recognise that it wasn’t just Luca who was lucky. Mathenia was a key figure, not just on Saturday but going back to the goalless draw with rivals Mainz earlier in the month, for example, which would have been a defeat if not for the goalkeeper’s repeated interventions.
With that said, they at least appear to have the right man (or perhaps men) in charge now. Gisdol inherited a shambles in September, with his predecessor Bruno Labbadia cut out of pre-transfer market discussions by the board and then left to carry the can when major failings in the squad were left unaddressed. A new chairman (Heribert Bruchhagen) and sporting director (Jens Todt) were appointed halfway through this campaign, and they have a big summer ahead to avoid the repetition of past mistakes.
For a few days, though, Hamburg deserve the right to bask in this exploit. “We were dead after the 10th matchday,” he recalled, with HSV tallying just two points and four goals at that juncture. Defender Mërgim Mavraj claimed to Sky that, in the circumstances, dodging the drop should be “the highlight of our careers”. Bruchhagen, interviewed on ZDF afterwards and grasping vainly for a plausible explanation, finally and breathlessly settled for “spirit”.
That quality is exactly what Wolfsburg – who seemed more organised and together for much of the afternoon before letting it slip at crucial moments – will have to summon over the next week, with the first leg of the relegation/promotion play-off against Eintracht Braunschweig on Thursday. In what Bild has already dubbed the A39 derby, with a 35km stretch of the road separating the clubs in what is the smallest-ever distance between play-off participants, Andries Jonker’s team will have to add focus to their superior quality, especially with Riechedly Bazoer, Sebastian Jung and Blaszczykowski almost certainly out for the first leg at least. A €90m annual wage bill would hurt in Bundesliga 2, especially with planned cuts by parent company Volkswagen on the agenda.
For Hamburg, and Gisdol, a welcome extra week off awaits. Afterwards, they must hit the drawing board hard if they are to build towards something really worth celebrating.
• “Vielen Dank für 22 wundervolle Jahre, Philipp!” read the banner draped across the balcony at Munich’s Marienplatz town hall, from where Bayern continued their title celebrations after the 4-1 win over Freiburg – underlining the fact that a fifth straight Bundesliga was almost overshadowed by the retirement of captain Philipp Lahm. Xabi Alonso (and Bayern reserve goalkeeper Tom Starke) were also saying goodbye, and club legends ranging from Franz Beckenbauer to Mehmet Scholl were there in Bavarian dress on an occasion that even Carlo Ancelotti described as “emotional”. Perhaps this explains a few bum notes hit by the coach as he duetted with half-time turn Anastacia at the official afterparty. Ancelotti was switched on enough, though, as Bild pointed out, to be sat on the bench in a tracksuit rather than his traditional suit, “probably for fear of hop-based attacks by his players”, with Lahm and Sky touchline reporter Britta Hofman, mid-broadcast, among those to get the traditional beer soaking.
• There was plenty of emotion too at Dortmund, where BVB secured third spot after a topsy-turvy afternoon in which they trailed twice but eventually beat Werder Bremen 4-3. Marc Bartra, drafted into the XI late on after an injury to Marcel Schmelzer, played his first game since he was injured in last month’s bus attack and was in tears at full-time, raising the cast on his wrist to an appreciative Südtribüne in front of applauding teammates. There was even a brief embrace between Thomas Tuchel and Hans-Joachim Watzke after recent tensions, while Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s late winner from the penalty spot earned him the season’s top scorer title with 31 goals. Aubameyang said he will discuss his future with the club next week, presumably after Saturday’s DfB Pokal final with Eintracht Frankfurt.
• Fourth-placed Hoffenheim didn’t feel like losers, though, even after a 0-0 home draw with Augsburg. They received a heroes’ reception from fans, though there had been moments of hope for even better when Bremen took their leads at Westfalen, with a loss for Dortmund meaning a draw would have been enough for Julian Nagelsmann’s side to go third. They hit the post twice and Ermin Bicakcic had a header cleared off the line, but Augsburg deserved the point that secured safety, with sporting director Stefan Reuter declaring himself “super-happy”.
• You can times that emotion by 10 for Köln, who celebrated on the pitch and then in the city streets after sealing a return to European competition for the first time since 1991-92. Lukas Podolski, naturally, was in attendance as goals from Jonas Hector and Yuya Osako gave them a 2-0 win over Mainz and, combined with Hertha Berlin’s 6-2 crash at home to Bayer Leverkusen, put them directly in the Europa League stages and their coach Peter Stöger under the weekend’s heaviest beer shower after his players invaded his post-match press conference. Hertha could still avoid the qualifiers – in which they were humbled by Brøndby last season - and go straight in if Dortmund win the Pokal next week.
• Eintracht warmed up for the final with a rousing comeback from 2-0 to take a draw against RB Leipzig, with goals from substitutes Jesús Vallejo and Danny Blum – the latter an absolute rocket from an acute angle – saving a point, and further lifting the mood of a planned pre-Pokal fan rally, which took place after full-time. Rather less savoury were the plastic darts thrown at Leipzig’s players after Marcel Sabitzer scored the opener in front of home fans.
Results: Bayern Munich 4-1 Freiburg, Borussia Dortmund 4-3 Werder Bremen, Borussia Mönchengladbach 2-2 Darmstadt, Eintracht Frankfurt 2-2 RB Leipzig, Hamburg 2-1 Wolfsburg, Hertha Berlin 2-6 Bayer Leverkusen, Ingolstadt 1-1 Schalke, Hoffenheim 0-0 Augsburg, Köln 2-0 Mainz.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Everyone loves a seven-goal thriller and football fans did not have long to wait for their first of the Premier League season, with Arsenal and Liverpool dishing up the goods with this epic. As is customary during such affairs, Jürgen Klopp became uncoupled from his spectacles while even the most pessimistic Arsenal supporters left the Emirates with little idea of exactly how justified their sense of foreboding for the season ahead would turn out. Having had a first-half penalty saved by Simon Mignolet, Theo Walcott quickly atoned with a shot into the bottom corner to put Arsenal ahead but it was the only time they would lead. Philippe Coutinho equalised with a majestic free-kick moments before the break, prompting a spell of early second-half dominance in which Liverpool attacked their opponents with the intensity of an angry swarm of bees. Adam Lallana and Coutinho gave Liverpool a two-goal cushion, before new signing Sadio Mané introduced himself with a fine, decisive solo effort that was topped by an even better one from Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain. A Calum Chambers header left Liverpool hanging on but they did so to deny same old Arsenal an opening day win for the fifth time in six years.
Who saw this coming? Having served up one of the best matches of last season, a most unlikely sequel to an already gripping tale of two cities appeared in December. For all the often justified talk of how clever he is, arrogance, ignorance or a combination of both meant that Pep Guardiola chose to ignore the energetic, direct manner in which Leicester romped to the most unlikely title win of all time and his team was duly demolished by an exhibition of counter-attacking excellence in which Jamie Vardy ended a run of 16 matches without scoring for the champions in the most emphatic style. The England striker’s hat-trick and Andy King’s only league goal of the season did for the shell-shocked visitors, who replied with late goals from Aleksandar Kolarov and Nolito but ultimately had no real answers. Despite some abysmal defending, Guardiola absolved his players of all blame for a shock defeat few in their right minds would have predicted. Leicester had won once in their previous nine league games and would prevail only once in their next 10 in a dire defence of their crown. This poor run of form would ultimately cost Claudio Ranieri his job, but before a characteristically dignified exit many viewed as extremely poorly handled, he did at least see his team hark back to last year’s glory days.
On the day Chelsea cemented their title-winning credentials with an eighth consecutive league win, Fernandinho and Sergio Agüero were sent off at the end of a simmering contest that eventually boiled over in the knockings. City’s myriad defensive shortcomings were ruthlessly exposed by Chelsea, who won courtesy of goals from Diego Costa, Willian and Eden Hazard after Gary Cahill had prodded into his own net on the stroke of half-time. The game – and possibly the season – turned on a Sliding Doors moment in the 56th minute when Kevin De Bruyne squandered a wonderful opportunity to put his side two up, somehow hitting the crossbar from four yards out with a vast expanse of goal gaping. The kind of unsavoury brawl almost everyone loves to see was prompted by a wild Agüero lunge on David Luiz, prompting a scuffle that spilled over the sidelines and almost into the stands. Fernandinho joined Agüero in referee Anthony Taylor’s bad books, getting his marching orders for an attempt to throttle Cesc Fàbregas. It was his second red card in three games and a third followed against Burnley three matches later. “It is a pity the game finished like this,” said Pep Guardiola. “I don’t like that and I apologise for what happened.” While sincere, Pep’s public contrition was hardly necessary.
While exciting, the drama generated by Manchester City and Chelsea was quickly eclipsed when Liverpool found themselves on the wrong end of a 4-3 scoreline the very next day. Having trailed by two goals on two separate occasions, Bournemouth pulled off a most unlikely comeback to win courtesy of a Nathan Aké tap-in in the third minute of injury time. With Liverpool in complete control, Sadio Mané and Divock Origi looked to have put the game beyond them by half-time but Eddie Howe’s decision to introduce Ryan Fraser in the 55th minute proved inspired. The Scottish midfielder immediately won a penalty that was converted by Callum Wilson, although hopes of a comeback looked short-lived when Emre Can restored Liverpool’s two-goal lead with a fine curling effort from distance. Saved by technology from falling even further behind, when it appeared as if Artur Boruc had carried the ball over his own goal-line, Bournemouth levelled proceedings with two goals in as many minutes from Fraser and Steve Cook. It was left to Aké to spark scenes of unbridled jubilation at the Vitality Stadium after the Liverpool goalkeeper Loris Karius spilled another shot from Cook. “It’s a nice story, it’s a pity we’re on the wrong side,” mused Jürgen Klopp in his post-match interview, although the feeling was his address to Liverpool’s players may not have been quite so measured.
While Alan Pardew would cling to his job as Crystal Palace manager for another month, this astonishing Swansea win left him a dead man walking. Both sides were struggling at the foot of the table looking likely relegation contenders when it kicked off, but Pardew seemed to have got the upper hand over his similarly ill-fated opposite number Bob Bradley when Palace took a late 4-3 lead. The two sides had traded first-half blows courtesy of Wilfried Zaha and Gylfi Sigurdsson, before two Leroy Fer strikes in as many minutes gave Swansea a two-goal cushion. A James Tomkins poke followed by a Jack Cork own goal made matters all square, and when Christian Benteke fired in off an upright to give Palace a 4-3 lead in the 84th minute, Pardew celebrated with all the fervour of a man who had learned absolutely nothing from last year’s FA Cup final. No doubt mesmerised by the tranquil azure of Fernando Llorente’s beautiful eyes, his players went into guilty bystander mode as the substitute scored two goals in added time to wipe the smirk off Pardew’s fizzog and leave him looking ashen-faced and broken. Low on quality, but high on entertainment, this match was a monument to astonishingly slapstick defending and within four weeks both managers involved had been handed their P45s.
Fan culture in Major League Soccer isn’t always considered to be the most authentic. That comes with the nature of the competition, in its franchised form, but that’s not to say fan culture doesn’t exist in North American soccer. This season, safe standing has become a part of that culture, with Orlando City leading the way (sometimes in very ... expressive ways). Others, such as Atlanta and Minnesota United, are following their lead.
In what has quickly become typical fashion for Los Angeles FC, a much teased announcement on Saturday confirmed that MLS’s glitziest club without a team will also have a standing section of their own at their new stadium to help create “an electric and unified stadium atmosphere on match-days.” It was not an original part of the plan (although standing areas had been mooted), but LAFC presumably saw how a standing section has energised Orlando City and crowbarred it into their own blueprint.
Indeed, Orlando’s new downtown stadium has set a new standard for fan culture in North American soccer, with its standing section – dubbed ‘The Wall’ in homage to the yellow variant found at the Westfalenstadion – demonstrating just how good things could be for fans across the league. Of course, theirs wasn’t the first standing section in MLS, with the San Jose Earthquakes’ Avaya Stadium built with a 600-capacity standing area, but Orlando City have raised the bar significantly when it comes to match-day experience in MLS.
And so LAFC will seek to follow that example. It should be noted that the idea of a standing section at the Banc of California Stadium isn’t the most natural of fits. Standing sections are deemed a manifestation of authentic, grassroots fan culture, but that somewhat goes against the grain of the luxury bars, hospitality suites and rooftop pools being built by Los Angeles FC. But the fact that they have altered the construction of their new ground at such a late stage to incorporate safe standing underlines the impression it has made on soccer culture in the States.
Elsewhere, the clamour for English clubs to build standing sections of their own has never been greater, with the Sports Grounds Safety Authority granting a request from the Football League to permit rail seating in grounds that are not subject to all-seater requirements and discussions taking place at Premier League level last November. LAFC’s construction of a safe standing area in a highly commercialised, modern environment, as one finds in the Premier League, will likely interest plenty on the other side of the Atlantic.
10- That’s the number of goals and assists Romain Alessandrini has for the LA Galaxy this season, with the Frenchman contributing one of the latter in his side’s 2-1 win over Minnesota United on Sunday. Galaxy have turned a corner of late, going four games without defeat, and Alessandrini has been a significant part of that turnaround.
19 - Sacha Kljestan was installed as the creative hub of the New York Red Bulls almost as soon as he’d joined the club, but the US international is somewhat carrying his teammates at the moment. Not only is he averaging more key passes per game (3.2) than any other play in MLS, but he is also leading the way in the number of set-piece chances created (19).
12- Some questioned whether David Villa could repeat the feats of the 2016 season, but his brace in New York City FC’s impressive 3-0 away win over Orlando City underlined how the Spanish legend is still one of the most formidable forces in the league. Villa now has 12 braces as a NYC FC player, and with eight goals in 11 appearances in 2017 he is still the most effective frontman MLS has.
“In my opinion, I think that we as coaches need to do a better job in respecting our opponents after performances,” said Jason Kreis after Orlando’s home loss to NYC FC, simmering over comments made by Patrick Vieira, claiming his side “were the better team” in two previous defeats to the Central Floridians.
What. A. Finish. #MINvLA pic.twitter.com/WcOstH8ayq
The caption says it all.
“It’s very gladiatorial between the teams,” Ben Ainslie says with relish as he anticipates the start of serious racing in the America’s Cup on Friday in Bermuda. “You certainly see a lot of aggression in the pre-starts and that’s exciting. It leads to great racing. The battle between two teams on the water is fascinating and it’s historically linked to the America’s Cup. It’s a different skillset to the fleet racing you see in the Olympic Games. I like it.”
We begin this interview at 7am, Bermuda-time, so Ainslie can be in the gym by eight before he takes to the water for a full day of practice. He has worked hard in the corporate world for the last four years to raise over £90m so his new team, Land Rover BAR, can compete in this latest stage of the America’s Cup; but, on the boat, Ainslie’s raw instincts prevail. Just a few hours after we finish talking Ainslie clashes with his one of his rivals in the beautiful setting of the Great Sound.
Racing against Emirates Team New Zealand, Ainslie’s boat rips a metre-long gash in the Kiwi hull. Both boats are off the water for days while urgent repairs are carried out amid acrimony. A tweet from the British team confirmed that: “During a pre-start, @LandRoverBAR bore away behind @EmiratesTeamNZ and clipped their hull, sustaining limited damage to our bow.” Blair Tuke, the Olympic sailing champion, who is part of the New Zealand crew, responded with a biting tweet: “Just clipped you reckon?!”
Peter Burling, the New Zealand helmsman, said angrily of Ainslie: “He ran straight into the back of us. It was so unnecessary.”
Ainslie tried to make light of the incident on Twitter. “Bit of a love tap racing hard with @EmiratesTeamNZ. Sorry guys and hope you’re back on the water soon. #AmericasCup.”
“It was my mistake,” Ainslie admitted, explaining he was trying to force his boat through a gap. He did not sound too contrite. “If you’re not pushing, it’s not racing.”
There is a clear sense of Ainslie switching into race mode. “If you asked all the teams,” he says, “they’d want more time to make technical improvements but at some point you’ve got to draw a line in the sand and get on with the competition. It’s closing in fast.”
Ainslie has won four Olympic gold medals, and one silver, in Games stretching from Atlanta in 1996 to London 2012 but has always dreamt of lifting the America’s Cup with his own team. He has already carved out a chunk of personal history in the oldest team competition in world sport after he inspired an incredible comeback in the last America’s Cup in 2013. Team Oracle, the boat representing the United States, were 4-1 down against New Zealand when they asked Ainslie to come on board as their tactician. It was a totally new role for him and it took time to adjust. When Oracle were 8-1 down their plight seemed hopeless. Team New Zealand needed one more win to seal the America’s Cup.
Ainslie galvanised Team Oracle and his voice became dominant. Race by race, win after win, the gap closed and an arcane competition was brought to vivid life. Intimate broadcasting made the racing seem very real as Ainslie could be heard bossing his skipper, Jimmy Spithill: “Yeah, yeah, just sail the boat, Jimmy!” Once the teams were locked at 8-8, the final race seemed a formality as Oracle had built an unstoppable momentum. It was still thrilling to hear Ainslie exhort his crew to victory with a visceral cry of: “This is it … this is it … work your arses off!”
Has he savoured what he achieved in 2013? “Not really, no. I’m trying to get this new boat going and it’s been the overpowering focus the last four years. I was very proud of being part of Oracle and of what the team achieved but the opportunity to start a new team was something I couldn’t turn down. It’s been an incredible journey and we are now in sight of that ultimate goal, which is to bring the America’s Cup back to Britain.”
The America’s Cup was first contested around the Isle of Wight in 1851 but it has never been won by a British boat. The world’s greatest sailors are now locked in competition for the 35th America’s Cup with the Japanese and French lagging behind the American, British, New Zealand and Swedish entries.
It would not be the America’s Cup without a complicated format. Ainslie and his team won the America’s Cup World Series and they take two bonus points into the qualifying series in Bermuda. The same six teams race against each other twice, in newly designed boats, and the top four progress into the challenger round. The winner will then face Team Oracle, who are racing in the preliminaries but whose place in the final is guaranteed as the defending champions, in the America’s Cup final in mid- to late June.
“About half of the team I sailed with in 2013 are back with Oracle,” Ainslie says of the champions who are skippered again by Spithill and finished second in the World Series. “But they also have brought in new people and they’re in a very strong position. After that I see the field being quite wide open. Artemis [the Swedish-backed boat] have done a fantastic job. They’ll be very strong – as will Team New Zealand. You never count out the Kiwis and they’ve been very aggressive with their design philosophy, pushing the boundaries of what’s possible, which is fascinating.”
Traditionally the boats use arm-operated grinders to increase their speed – but Team New Zealand favour pedal power. Four cyclists on the NZ boat are using their legs to produce extra wattage, without any arm grinders. Legs produce more power but the bikes lack the flexibility of the arm-grinders who can duck out of the wind and produce less drag.
“We considered pedalling,” Ainslie says, “but decided we could get on top of the efficiency issues, also retaining the durability of being on our feet or knees rather than the risk of being unstable on a bike. Oracle have got one bike at the back but this seems just a reaction to New Zealand. I assume they’re looking at it from the advantage of being the defender. They can use the challenger series to experiment because they don’t need the results to qualify.”
Land Rover BAR will race first against Artemis who are led by Iain Percy, Ainslie’s closest friend in sailing. “It’s an interesting one because Artemis are our favourite team. We always say if, unfortunately, we weren’t able to win this thing we’d love Artemis to do it. We have lots of friends there and, in particular, for me with Iain. He has done a fantastic job turning the team around from a very difficult period in 2013 to now being one of the favourites.”
Artemis won their first nine practice races in Bermuda and, considering Ainslie’s searing competitive drive, has the relationship between him and Percy become more distant just before they race? “Oddly, in many ways it’s actually drawn us even closer. Sometimes, in these leadership positions, you have to take a certain approach with your team. To have a very close friend in a similar role helps. We quite often find ourselves on the phone sharing different ideas and concerns. It’s almost the opposite of being distant. When we’re out on the water we both want to win but the great thing with Iain is that over 30 years, either racing with or against each other, we’ve retained that friendship.”
Their bond is deepened by the loss of their close friend Andrew “Bart” Simpson, who died while training alongside Percy for Artemis, and against Ainslie and Oracle, just before the 2013 America’s Cup in San Francisco. Percy said how moved he was when, in the aftermath of Oracle’s amazing victory, Ainslie stepped away from the celebrations to share a beer instead with his friend so they could remember Simpson.
“Absolutely,” Ainslie says, “and we remember him every day. It was the anniversary last Tuesday [9 May] and all the teams got together out on the Great Sound at daybreak. We rafted up alongside each other and shared 15 minutes thinking about Andrew. We have great memories of our friendship and his impact on sailing but it was obviously terrible when he died. His wife, Leah, and their two boys, Freddie and Hamish, came out to Bermuda six weeks ago. It was absolutely fantastic to see Leah and the boys go out on the boats and watch the racing and be embraced by so many friends.”
Is racing now safer than four years ago? “Yes. The whole game has moved on immeasurably and the safety element is something we take very seriously. We have over a thousand strain-gauges on these boats to try to make sure we’re not pushing too hard or about to break something. We also practise being under water and dealing with difficulties. A lot of effort goes into being as safe as possible.”
Anticipation soon returns and, considering the broadened appeal of the America’s Cup, Ainslie says: “I compare it to the World Series of Cricket in the 1970s. They really revolutionised how cricket was filmed and watched. That same revolution is taking place in the America’s Cup. The boats are smaller and faster but we’ve got more cameras on board, drone technology and all the audio. So it will be an incredible spectacle and one of the closest America’s Cups in history. It has all the ingredients to be the best-ever.”
Does his gut instinct tell him that, as is usually the way with Ainslie, he will find a way to win? “It’s a big ask for us as a new team. We’re clearly on the back foot through the practice racing but there are a lot of performance upgrades still to come, which sounds crazy with only days to go before racing but that’s the nature of development competition. I’m confident we’ll improve significantly. We’re absolutely pushing to try to win it.”
At the same time Ainslie stresses “sustainability is now part of our DNA”. He adds: “From the outset it’s been important to us and 11th Hour Racing is our key sustainability partner. They instilled a sense of responsibility as to how best we drive our sustainability. We’ve got a partnership with Southampton University looking at how we can better recycle carbon which is a key component in the hulls and wings of our boats.”
Sporting victory still consumes the 40-year-old – as does the challenge of sailing an America’s Cup boat. “I’ve never flown a fighter jet but I imagine it’s similar. There have been some stressful periods but I couldn’t be prouder of the team and the way they’ve risen to the challenges and setbacks. Winning it this year was the goal when we started but only one team has managed to win the America’s Cup at the first attempt. We want to do it this first time but we’ll keep going and win it no matter how long it takes.”
Premiership players have condemned plans to extend the domestic season to 10 months from 2019-20, saying the move would have serious implications and unnecessarily add to their physical and mental strain.
Premiership Rugby drew up its plan last March after World Rugby announced changes to the global calendar that would mean the domestic season in Europe starts a month later in October and goes on until the end of June rather than May.
The Pro12 board immediately agreed to keep a three-month off-season and start its league at the beginning of October but Premiership Rugby said it would begin its campaign as usual in September but go on for an extra month.
“The proposal had not been discussed with us,” said the Rugby Players’ Association in a statement. “The RPA has always sought to work collaboratively with Premiership Rugby to address player welfare concerns. It therefore caused significant concern and disappointment to our members to learn of Premiership Rugby’s plans to extend the domestic season via a press release.
“Despite this disappointment, Premiership Rugby were invited to present their proposals in more detail to the RPA players’ board on Wednesday 10 May. However, after due consideration, the board unanimously rejected these proposals in their current form.
“The Premiership season is already longer than comparable contact sports, including Super League, NFL and AFL. Extending an already arduous season from nine months to ten has serious implications for players, given the potential increase to the game, training and psychological loads they face. The physical and mental strain placed on participants of professional contact sport cannot be underestimated.”
The RPA, whose chairman Christian Day, the Northampton second-row, said last month he did not rule out the threat of a strike, added the reduction of the off-season from three to two months would have a seriously detrimental effect on player welfare unless substantial guaranteed safeguards are introduced. Premiership Rugby has said it plan would not increase the number of matches for players.
“The RPA fought hard for the inclusion of a mandatory five week off-season break in the standard Premiership contract but players also require an extensive pre-season period to sufficiently prepare for the physical demands of the season,” continued the statement. “A significant off-season period is essential to provide physical and, crucially, mental respite for our members.
“Perhaps most worryingly is the incredible strain these proposals would place on international players. If the Premiership season retains its start date, the addition of a July tour schedule will lead to an 11-month season for these players. This cannot be avoided unless these players start their domestic season later, which brings into question the need for the season extension.
“All players fully recognise the fundamental role Premiership clubs and Premiership Rugby have played in investing in and creating a thriving domestic league in England. Whilst we also acknowledge the reduction of overlaps between international and domestic rugby is desirable, we do not believe the proposals are viable.
“It is critical that those playing the game have a full say in how it is run and we look forward to working together with all the game’s stakeholders on this issue to ensure rugby union continues to flourish in England.”
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Because if turning a widely-despised team that finished 10th into an only occasionally-despised team that finished first doesn’t get you a place on this list then there’s no sense in the world.
Spurs are a brilliantly entertaining, wonderfully organised and excellently motivated team, and though they again missed out on silverware their manager deserves enormous credit for it. Their away record has been a little humdrum, but at home they have been phenomenal, drawing with Liverpool and Leicester and beating every league side whose name does not begin with L. “For me he’s the best or definitely one of the best managers in the world,” said Harry Kane, whose absence with an ankle injury during the draw-heavy period in late Autumn probably decided the title. “Not just on the pitch but off the pitch as well – he’s a great man-manager.” This is particularly evident in the way he has shuffled his four full-backs over the last two seasons, with all of them remaining in excellent form and high spirits until the last few weeks when Kyle Walker, with transfer speculation starting to swirl, became unsettled. The way Hugo Lloris speaks of him – “already the best manager in the world – he matters a lot to me. Our relationship goes beyond football” – is again revealing of the high regard with which he is held by his charges. But the final word goes to Pep Guardiola: “’I don’t think he’s one of the best managers in England, he’s one of the best football managers in the world,” he said in October. “I enjoy watching Tottenham. Not [just] right now. Since last year. I think what he’s doing is an amazing job. The way they play I like a lot.”
After only a shambolic Hull that at the time had no manager and few players, Burnley were considered the pre-season relegation favourites, yet Dyche has led them on a season of merry mediocrity, earning particularly brilliant results at home. Since the end of August, before which tables don’t really count, Burnley have bounced around happily between 16th place and ninth, while after a 42-year absence from the England team two Burnley players have been capped. As a result of all this, Dyche has been named on the official Premier League manager of the year shortlist: he has only been a manager for six years, has never been employed by a club that could be considered particularly moneyed or glamorous, yet he has been nominated for divisional manager of the year awards in four of them. He may sometimes be overlooked because he’s a croaky-voiced Englishman, but Dyche appears to be really quite good.
When Allardyce was sacked as England manager in September after a humiliating and self-aggrandising – but not really, in hindsight, all that damning – pint-of-wine-drinking outing with some undercover reporters, the likelihood of him appearing on this list appeared extremely remote. It seemed even more unlikely when, having been appointed just before Christmas with a brief to “bring some joy” to Crystal Palace’s disintegrating season, the side won only one of his first eight games, sinking down to 19th in the table. Particularly given that they would have to play every top six side in their final 10 fixtures. Then came a match against Middlesbrough, and a debut for the on-loan Liverpool defender Mamadou Sakho: eight games and six wins later, including victories over Chelsea, Arsenal and Liverpool, the escape was all but complete. Allardyce thus ends the season with a £2m relegation-dodging bonus payout and a manager-of-the-season nomination not so much for his efforts throughout the campaign – three months of which he spent with his feet up – but as the man behind its most eyebrow-raising eight-game hot streak.
As Bournemouth played out the final moments of their 1-0 win over West Brom in September, their fans started to sing: “Tony Pulis,” they trilled, “your football is shite.” They did have something of a point. This season’s Bournemouth and West Brom represent two very different answers to the same question, regarding smaller-club top-flight survival techniques. “The bigger clubs have got the money, the skill and the ability,” Pulis said last month. “The smaller clubs in the league who haven’t got the money to buy that skill and ability, you have to work very hard on your organisation. That’s what we have to do. Be very organised and well set up.” The fruits of Pulis’s labour are most evident at set-pieces, at which his side are perhaps the division’s most successful exponents, but from open play they are often prosaic. Howe also talks frequently about hard work, but his teams play a more open game, which is not always to their own benefit – take the madcap 6-3 defeat at Everton, which contributed to them conceding more league goals this season than anyone but Hull and Swansea – but normally is to a neutral’s. “I’m studying Bournemouth and I’m watching a good team with good organisation,” Antonio Conte said before his Chelsea met the Cherries on Boxing Day. “They always try to play from the back and put good pressure. If he continues in this way for sure he can become a manager of a great team.” Bournemouth have struggled at times this season, most particularly in a run of three draws, five league defeats and a 3-0 FA Cup humbling at Millwall between the turn of the year and the second week of March, but the absolute ease with which they avoided any hint of relegation in what was expected to be a difficult second season in the top flight makes this in retrospect another fine season for Howe (as it was, in his way, for Pulis).
After several years in the League One doldrums and a dismal finish under Nigel Adkins last season hopes weren’t too high when Chris Wilder was appointed as the new manager last May. The start of the season led us to believe that we would be in a relegation battle, as we sat at the bottom of the table after four games.
Well, we were wrong. Very wrong. The Blades started winning and they won a lot. Up the table we climbed, playing attractive football. Wilder changed to a 3-5-2 formation long before Antonio Conte did at Chelsea. Buoyed by excellent support home and away, we roared to the title. Wilder has rejuvenated Sheffield United in style. Here’s to next season in the Championship. Don’t be surprised to see the Blades in the top half of the table. Shorehamview
In light of having a transfer embargo, having to integrate loan signings and free transfer players, and not having a proven goalscorer in the squad, we exceeded expectations. Manager Phil Parkinson has had a calming influence on the team, but now needs to prove he’s capable of managing at Championship level. The financial situation needs to be further stabilised and the club sold to wealthy but credible owners. Martin
This went as well as can be expected realistically. I don’t begrudge Millwall their victory in the play-off semi-finals. We looked all tuckered out during the two legs and didn’t deserve it after our disappointing second half to the season. But our front three of Paddy Madden, Josh Morris and Ivan Toney were outstanding and scored some goals that were worthy of the Premier League.
Local legend Graham Alexander brought with him plenty of positivity and the ability to get the most out of a small squad. Josh Morris’s goals early in the season were vital in putting us top for several weeks, as was an unexpected solidity in our often shaky defence. I’m guessing we’ll struggle to hold onto Morris, and perhaps Madden, during the window. But we’re a small club with a tiny squad from an unglamorous and struggling town. If you offered me anything in the top half of League One I’d be happy. BB
There were some terrific wins for Fleetwood this season, but unfortunately they couldn’t find one when it mattered against Bradford in the play-off semi-finals, despite running them close. To finish fourth on a shoestring budget shows how much of a miracle Uwe Rosler worked this term. He definitely had a point to prove after poor managerial experiences at both Wigan and Leeds. He must surely be offered an improved contract for next season. We’ve come so close to getting to the Championship, it would be such a shame to have to tear it all up again now. Ben
Finishing the job at Wembley against Millwall would have been the perfect end to the season, but alas we fell just short on the day. The season overall has to go down as one of the best for a long long time though. Stuart McCall, arguably the club’s greatest ever player, returned and revolutionised our style of play.
While he has been successful in moving on from the soporific style of Phil Parkinson, we still have an underlying issue of not converting the abundance of chances we create. That was the case on Saturday too. McCall has kept faith with the foundations of the team, while another Bantam legend, Greg Abbot, has recruited astutely. I’m confident we’re on the right track and will be in a good position to give it another go in August. Michael Brett
A good campaign turned into a fantastic one for us when we beat Bradford in our second consecutive play-off final. I was there to watch Steve Morison smash home our late winner. The hurt of last year’s 3-1 defeat to Barnsley is finally a thing of the past. We also had a great FA Cup run where we eliminated three Premier League sides at the Den, including Leicester, the champions of England. The FA Cup hindered our league form. If we’d been knocked out earlier on, I think we’d have been in contention for the second automatic position place. We have quite a small, tight-knit group and only managed to sneak into the play-offs on the final day. But by beating Scunthorpe over two legs and standing firm against Bradford at Wembley, we deserve to take our place in the Championship next season.
Neil Harris has done a cracking job since taking over in 2015. He’s a club legend and the supporters will always be behind him. He’s one of us. The board need to back him now for a tough Championship campaign. We’ve been successful this season due to a very strong defence, going over 14 hours without conceding at one stage this season. Lee Gregory and Morison have a great partnership offensively and will always score goals at this level with the right service. We were desperate to be back in the second tier and I’m delighted we did it on Saturday! Dan Clarke
The season overall was a success, despite the final-day heartbreak of Millwall nabbing the last play-off spot. Phil Brown has us playing attractive football while keeping us more defensively sound than last season. A common problem this season was the conceding of silly late goals, notably against Sheffield United. Had that goal not gone in, we would have been in the play-offs.
This team is willing but would not survive the brutal slog of a Championship season. Signings along the spine of the team are vital. We need to bring in an able and willing centre-back to partner Anton Ferdinand and another striker to make another promotion push. Alexander Gowing
Having been newly promoted at the start of the season, the club has learned a lot from their first year in back in League One and have ultimately held their own. The cup runs were decent again but, had we taken more points against the teams we went up with from League Two last year, we could have finished even higher than eighth. We have a chairman and manager who appear to trust each other and are taking the club forwards. Hopefully we will buy the stadium in the near future too. Jon
With just one defeat in April, we were seriously pushing for a play-off place, but ultimately we left ourselves with too much to do. It could have been different had we not drawn three of those last seven games, but I’m still happy with the progress made this season. Keith Hill is still doing a great job for us. Consistency has been the key and Hill has been given time to gradually get us better and better. A play-off place was so near yet still so far after this season and, although we’re making steady League One progress, dreams of Championship football are still of the pipe variety. Scott
This was a good solid season after two back-to-back promotions. We consolidated a League One position comfortably. There was even a possibility of a play-off place, but it fell away towards the end of the season. Tenth is a good base for a promotion push next season. The owners have a coherent vision for the club and back an ambitious manager who is unwilling to let the club stand still. We have to kick on next season. Colin Favour
We went into the season with high expectations, mostly from our ambitious chairman, but insipid performances, bemusing managerial decisions and overall poor consistency meant that we finished the season with little improvement from the season prior. I believe most of our players seem to use Peterborough as a stepping stone for their career. There was a huge lack of cohesion and camaraderie within the squad for the predominance of the season. This was clear to see from the terraces as many performances, especially at London Road, were uninspiring affairs with us more often than not either losing, playing out a cagey draw, or recording an unconvincing and scrappy victory.
We need to invest in experienced players who have the drive and passion to succeed and bring the passion back to London Road that we have lacked in the last few seasons. Attendances are dropping and people are starting to lose interest. One more mediocre season and I feel that we will be considered a fully established League One club which, for a club who still has reasonably recent Championship pedigree, is not a good thing. Jack Toulson
Woeful until Christmas, considerably less woeful after Christmas. In fact a good enough second half of the season to leave me quietly optimistic for 2017/18. With all due respect to Rotherham, Wigan and Blackburn there is no temporarily embarrassed big club coming down who will go on to waltz the division.
Calling time on Karl Robinson’s time made the difference. The abject collapse in the Championship was disappointing but maybe understandable, but to do the same in the first dozen games in League One meant it was time for him to go. Robbie Nielsen has got a much better set of results and performances from basically the same players. Pikeman
We were supposed to get promoted according to the board, but with our “top six budget” we finished 13th. And it could have been far worse. We lost to such footballing titans (no disrespect intended) as Shrewsbury, Bury, Oldham, Northampton and Oxford. We averaged crowds of 6,000 in a 27,000-seater stadium. All the while being run into the ground by Roland Duchâtelet. Negative, boring football under Russell Slade followed by tactically inept performances under Karl Robinson. The protests were good though. Tom
At the start of the season, with the squad that only missed out on automatic promotion on the final day of last season decimated, we would have taken mid-table safety. It feels anti-climatic though. If the season were 38 games long, like in the Premier League, we’d have just missed out on the play-offs. That’s how badly we faded at the end and it cast a shadow over an otherwise stable season.
Jon Witney’s first full season as manager can’t be regarded as a failure, but he struggled to keep the players motivated at key times, particularly at the end of the season. Erhun Oztumer, the Turkish Messi, was a revelatory free transfer with spectacular goals galore. But more goals should have been delivered by Cypriot international Andreas Makris, the first player we paid a fee for in a decade. Daniel Jones
I’d have taken finishing 15th at the start of the season, especially after such a poor start. We looked like we could compete with the best teams in the league in some games, but were also completely outclassed in others. Highlights obviously include beating the franchise 2-0 and coming from 3-0 down to beat Curzon Ashton in the FA Cup. But crashing out of the FA Cup to Sutton, finishing below Milton Keynes and only scoring once in our last nine games leaves mixed emotions going into next year.
Manager Neal Ardley has given us stability, having kept the majority of the squad from last season and added some astute signings. The end of the season felt quite flat but there were some very good patches of form. Tom Elliott has had a brilliant season and Jake Reeves could easily be a Championship player. We need to hold on to players with that type of ability. Callum
Losing League Two-winning manager Chris Wilder and key players over the summer was a big blow. New manager Rob Page was unable to replicate the team spirit and winning mentality of the side. We were in the top five after a positive start but results began to unravel in October and November, and they never really picked up, which culminated in Page being dismissed in early January.
This is a pivotal time in Justin Edinburgh’s managerial career. Recruitment is absolutely key. If he gets it right, he could take himself and the team to the next level. If not, he’ll be gone around Christmas with his reputation damaged, irrevocably perhaps, and we’ll be fighting against relegation again. Party Horse
Thanks to the resurgence under John Sheridan in the last few months of the season, we’ve kept our heads above water yet again. He brought stability to the club, galvanising the players. Losing just two games of our last 10 was a success. But overall it’s the same old story of lack of funds, players who never seem to have a desire to play unless they are almost past the point of rescue, and generally an atmosphere-free stadium. No doubt John Sheridan will be let go in October only to come back in early April to save us from the drop once more. I predict 20th next season, if we’re lucky. Patrick McKiernan
Having flirted with relegation in the 2015-16 season, it was really disappointing to have another backs-to-the-wall campaign this year. It started very badly with Micky Mellon, who jumped ship to managed in the National League with Tranmere when we were rock bottom, and it was up to Paul Hurst and Chris Doig to pick up the pieces. Which they did to an extent. My only hope for next season is not to suffer another nail biting relegation threatened campaign. Mid-table mediocrity would do just fine. Daniel
Survival was achieved despite defeat on the final day, but it was a depressing season; three permanent managers, over 30 players, the usual rolling cast of goalkeepers and wages wasted on players who have had their day (bye bye, Jermaine Pennant!) Any club that loses 12 consecutive league games can count itself lucky to stay up, and we certainly do.
Last summer’s recruitment was disastrous. Painfully short at the back, and overpaid striker Ishmael Miller only managed three league appearances. Call me Ishmael? No thanks. Lee Clark arrived in February and immediately went to five at the back. We defended infinitely better, while continuing to rely on James Vaughan at the other end. 24 league goals is a serious return for a team finishing 19th in the league. Without him we would clearly have been relegated with room to spare. Darrien
After last season, when we missed the play-offs on the last day, I was fairly optimistic. Instead we’ve gone back to square one. Our appalling away form, managerial changes and our star player going off the boil resulted in a season that started badly and ended with us staying in League One because other teams were even worse than us.
Our big summer transfer was Paul Konchesky. After 34 appearances for QPR last season, it was considered he’d be a marked improvement in defence. The fact that he dropped four levels to Billericay Town says everything about our summer recruitment. If 17th place was bad enough for Justin Edinburgh to be sacked, then 20th place should be curtains for Ady Pennock. David
It looked bad in pre-season when the chairman forced out Rob Page and a progressively good team of professionals was pushed aside for Bruno Ribeiro and a group of unproven European players seemingly picked at random from an agent catalogue. Even when early signs seemed promising to outsiders, when we were in the play-offs until November, nobody watching Port Vale week in week out was surprised when the wheels fell off. The quality on display was well below expectations.
Chairman Norman Smurfwaite decided to gamble stability on his foreign legion plan, and it has backfired. Players like Paolo Tavares are on big money two year contracts despite performances suggesting that even League Two will be too much for him. Smurfwaite needs to sell the club. Vale will only make money if someone can bankroll us back to the second tier. The stadium and infrastructure are big enough to sustain such football, with a profitable reward for such an investor. League 2 football will just see us accumulate ever more debt from dwindling crowds. Tom Hughes
Hello League Two, it’s not been long enough! But the writing was on the wall from mid-November and, despite a raft of loan signings in the window, the inevitable happened in the penultimate game of the season. We have a chairman more concerned with finances than results. There’s a strained relationship between the club and local media. We have a manager who is actually no more than a coach. And then there’s Tim Sherwood... Shaun Crowe
Aside from one day in the sun at Wembley, it has been horrendous. We didn’t win a league game until 1 October, which turned out to be our first and last away league victory. We were on our second manager of the season by then. We broke many club records, but the most depressing is that none of our four managers managed to get their side to score three in a league match.
Tony Mowbray had a pathetic transfer window last summer. Russell Slade didn’t know which players to pick and in which system to play them and ended up using the January transfer window as badly as Mowbray used the summer one. Our inept owners are preventing many from focusing on the football. When I first got a season ticket, Coventry were a Premier League club. Now I support a fourth-tier club, mainly because of 20 years of horrific mismanagement. Paul Knowles
This has been a total shambles of a season. Rock bottom of the table, courted controversy by signing Ched Evans, and even he could not save an underperforming squad of zero quality. Boss Danny Wilson had no funds to improve and was sacked prematurely. He was replaced by Gary Caldwell, who had no new ideas and no budget.
Owner Dave Allen has pulled the plug after slowly selling off the superb players Paul Cook built into a quality side. Despite the sales, the club is still in massive debt. On top of that, our director of football, Chris Turner, had the PR skills of David Brent and the directors don’t seem overly bothered. This season we’ve seen a fake raffle winner announced and local pie suppliers Jacksons having their contract terminated to save cash. James
Stan Kroenke has insisted he remains committed to Arsenal and his shares are “not, and never have been, for sale”.
KSE UK, which is the holding company for the American’s interest in Arsenal, issued a statement to the London Stock Exchange on Monday following media speculation concerning its commitment to the Premier League club, who have missed out on the top four of the Premier League for the first time in 20 years.
The Russian businessman Alisher Usmanov, who owns 30% of the club, made a formal £1bn bid to buy Arsenal, but Kroenke has no intention of relinquishing any of his 67% holding.
A statement to the London Stock Exchange read: “KSE UK, Inc notes the recent media speculation concerning its shareholding in Arsenal Holdings PLC and confirms its shares are not, and never have been, for sale. KSE is a committed, long term investor in Arsenal and will remain so.”
Arsenal are facing up to a multimillion pound drop in revenue after failing to qualify for the Champions League but the statement of intent from KSE indicates Kroenke is at the Emirates Stadium for the long haul.
Arsenal may have come up short in the Premier League but could yet win what would be a third FA Cup in four seasons when they play the holders, Chelsea, at Wembley on Saturday. Kroenke, though, could face a battle to win back the trust of those supporters who believe a change is needed in the boardroom. Chants for the majority shareholder to “get out of our club” resonated around the ground during Arsenal’s 3-1 win over Everton on Sunday, which proved enough for only fifth place.
The future of manager Arsène Wenger also remains unresolved. Wenger chose not to join his players on the traditional lap of appreciation on Sunday but offered support to Kroenke in his post-match press conference.
“I respect Stan Kroenke a lot. He is not at fault if we did not reach the Champions League,” Wenger said. “It is the technical department who is responsible for that. I don’t see what he has to do with that.”
Wenger accepts doubts surrounding whether or not he would be staying on past the end of his contract have contributed to an “absolutely horrendous” environment at the club.
He has refused to confirm he will stay next season and, after missing out on the Premier League’s top four for the first time since 1996, Wenger said the uncertainty had not helped.
“Overall I believe we played since January in a very difficult environment for different reasons,” Wenger said. “The psychological environment for the players was absolutely horrendous.”
Arsenal will play in the Europa League for the first time next season and missing out on Europe’s premier tournament may not sit well with their star players. The futures of Alexis Sánchez and Mesut Özil, in particular, are far from certain. Arsenal have some selection concerns the FA Cup final, with the defender Laurent Koscielny banned following his red card on Sunday, while Gabriel had to be carried off on a stretcher after sustaining a knee injury.
Massimiliano Allegri might want to keep an eye on the baggage scanner when Juan Cuadrado checks in for next week’s flight to Cardiff. The Colombian tipped two bottles of water over his manager in the wake of Juventus’s Coppa Italia win last Wednesday, but after they sealed the Scudetto he covered his boss in foam instead.
Is it premature to ask what celebration Cuadrado has in mind for a Champions League triumph? There is still the small matter of a final against Real Madrid to get through, after all. But that is the only obstacle remaining in Juve’s pursuit of the treble. For the sixth season running, they are Serie A champions. No team in Italy, England, Spain or Germany has ever won so many consecutive domestic titles before.
Juve’s commemorative T-shirts bore the word ‘LE6END’. They were on sale in the club shop even before Sunday’s game against Crotone kicked off. A tiny bit presumptuous for a side that had failed to win its previous three league fixtures? Not really. Allegri had made a deliberate choice to focus on the cups in the first half of this month, rotating his team accordingly. That was a luxury Juventus could afford.
It would be false to pretend that the 3-1 defeat by Roma had not stung them. As Gigi Buffon put it, “even at 39 years old, I still don’t like making an arse of myself”. Ultimately, though, that loss only served to sharpen their focus.
Crotone arrived at J-Stadium as Serie A’s form team, with 17 points from seven games, as well as a desperate one: battling for top-flight survival. They played with courage and commitment, pressing Juventus high up the pitch and striking fast on the counter. But from the moment Mario Mandzukic converted a Cuadrado cross in the 12th minute, you knew this match was over.
Paulo Dybala made it 2-0 with a sumptuous free-kick, before Alex Sandro added a late third. Fans unfurled a familiar banner in the Curva Sud: “La Signora Ha Vinto Ancora” – “The [Old] Lady has won again”.
She makes it look so easy, too. In reality, it is anything but. As Allegri reminded reporters at full-time, Roma are on course to finish second on 87 points. Napoli, just behind them, have already achieved a club record by getting to 83.
Only through constant evolution have Juventus been able to stay ahead of such pursuit. The team that beat Crotone included five players enjoying their first season at the club: Gonzalo Higuaín, Miralem Pjanic, Dani Alves, Mehdi Benatia and Tomás Rincón. All three of Sunday’s scorers joined in the summer of 2015 – meaning none were part of the club’s last run to a Champions League final.
How does a team sustain success with an ever-changing cast? In the past two years, alone, Juventus have bid farewell to Paul Pogba, Arturo Vidal, Alvaro Morata, Carlos Tevez, and Andrea Pirlo. And yet, they only seem to get stronger.
In part, that is a testament to the small group of players who have remained throughout. Together with Buffon for all six of these titles have been Leonardo Bonucci, Giorgio Chiellini, Andrea Barzagli, Stephan Lichtsteiner and Claudio Marchisio. It is the sort of backbone that most teams can only dream of.
But there have also been fantastically shrewd transfer dealings. General manager, Beppe Marotta, has unearthed one gem after another – from free transfers such as Pirlo, Alves and Sami Khedira through to Dybala, who looks a snip already for €40m. Even Higuaín’s €90m fee does not feel so excessive in light of his 32 goals and all-around contribution to the team’s achievements.
More than this, Marotta, together with his fellow directors, has worked to make sure that Juventus are on a strong financial footing going forwards. The Bianconeri have more than doubled their annual revenue in the last five years alone, even if the gap to Europe’s richest clubs remains substantial.
Marotta’s smartest move, though, might still be the one to appoint Allegri as manager. A man who was pelted with eggs by fans on his first day as manager back in 2014 was called under the Curva Sud on Sunday. It was he whom the Ultras implored to “bring us the cup” back from Cardiff.
Allegri can be a barrel of contradictions at times, a man who released his own tactics app and yet loves to tell journalists that formations are unimportant, insisting the best kind of manager is “the one who does the least damage”. But there is no escaping the fact that his mid-season shift to a hybrid 4-2-3-1 was a turning point.
Juventus were hardly struggling in January, top and safely through to the Champions League knock-out rounds, but their performances had grown stale. After a 2-1 defeat at Fiorentina, Allegri knew something had to change.
Many were sceptical of his vision to get Higuaín, Mandzukic, Dybala, Cuadrado and Pjanic into the same starting XI, seeing no way to do so without losing balance. Allegri pulled it off by adapting Mandzukic into a new role on the left wing and drawing Pjanic back to a position in front of the defence. His team won the next 10 games, and the “five-star Juve” was born.
Whether he will stick with that system for the final against Madrid remains to be seen. He is a manager who tailors his team to each opponent, as witnessed in the Champions League semi-final against Monaco, where Allegri reverted to starting with three at the back (although, in practice, his formations are fluid throughout a match – the shape changing depending on whether Juventus have the ball).
If he gets it right, then perhaps he can look forward to another dousing from Cuadrado. If not, this will remain a memorable campaign. To a record-breaking third consecutive Coppa Italia, Juventus have added a record-breaking sixth-consecutive Scudetto. And yet, still, they want more.
• Juventus’s players were joined on the pitch by their kids for the trophy presentation, a joyful occasion for most but not Bonucci’s oldest son, Lorenzo. A Torino supporter, he looked decidedly unimpressed at being made to wear his father’s colours.
• Buffon was, understandably, in nostalgic mood, posting on Instagram with memories of the Serie B title that he won with Juventus 10 years ago. He also had a column published in La Stampa, in which he observed – while stressing he had no desire to pick a fight with officials – that he considered this his 10th title overall, including the two that were formally stripped away as a result of the Calciopoli scandal. Above all, he seemed eager to pay tribute to his team-mates – past and present – and to stress that such success is not easily obtained.
“We won. Again,” he wrote. “For the sixth time in a row. A record shared with Barza, Chiello, Leo, Stephan and Claudio: the old men of this group (I say ‘old’ as a manner of speaking, obviously … except when referring to Andrea, he really is old). As the months, matches and wins passed by, lots of people talked about a ‘preannounced victory’, of a smooth path, a title running downhill, of manifest superiority. I do not agree.
“That is the thought of somebody who has never won, and who tends to trivialise the hard work of those who do succeed. In this sixth Scudetto, there was nothing discounted, predictable or safe. We were the favourites, sure, because of how much we built in the last five seasons. But we started over from zero, we put ourselves back up for discussion, we battled and we won. Nobody gifted us anything. Every opponent gave everything against us. Everyone cheered against us. And that’s normal. The strongest are always the bad guys. But I will keep that antipathy and I will leave to others the envy for what this club, the whole club, has managed to build.”
• All hope is not yet lost for Crotone, though the odds are certainly against them at this stage. They remain one point behind Empoli but can no longer catch Genoa, who beat Torino. Crotone would win a head-to-head tie-breaker with the Tuscans, but need to get a result against Lazio on the final weekend to give themselves a chance. Empoli, meanwhile, have a far more inviting fixture away at relegated Palermo.
• The race for second will likewise go down to the wire. Roma won a barmy game away to Chievo 5-3, a match featuring another five-minute cameo for Francesco Totti, while Napoli smashed Fiorentina 4-1. The battle within a battle sees Edin Dzeko duking it out with Dries Mertens to become Serie A’s capocannoniere. The Bosnian has a one-goal lead going into the final weekend.
• Oh, and in case you missed it, here are Chievo’s Lucas Castro, Nicolás Spolli and Mariano Izco singing a song that they wrote to celebrate Totti’s career.
Questa canzone è dedicata a un mito del calcio, che va al di là di ogni bandiera! @officialasroma @officialtotti10 @acchievoverona @mariano13izco @nicospolli2 #francesco #totti #10
A post shared by lucas castro (@castrolucas19) on May 17, 2017 at 10:56am PDT
• Milan are back in Europe for the first time in three years, sealing sixth place with their win over Bologna. That qualifies them for the Europa League’s third qualifying round, but it seemed exciting enough to the club’s players that they grabbed Vincenzo Montella and threw him up in the air at full-time. Some fans will look on such festivities and see only a dismaying sense of diminished ambition, but the manager has done well with a modest talent pool. Both the wage bill and recent transfer outlay are dwarfed by those of their neighbours Inter, who will miss out for another year despite ending their eight-game winless run with a victory over Lazio.
Results: Chievo 3-5 Roma, Empoli 0-1 Atalanta, Genoa 2-1 Torino, Juventus 3-0 Crotone, Lazio 1-3 Internazionale, Milan 3-0 Bologna, Napoli 4-1 Fiorentina, Sassuolo 6-2 Cagliari, Udinese 1-1 Sampdoria. Monday: Pescara v Palermo.
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
Scoring against Sunderland this season was no major feat but doing so in a style that few people had ever seen took real ingenuity. The start was routine enough: United played the ball wide (after Sunderland gave it away), Zlatan Ibrahimovic collected it and Henrik Mkhitaryan darted between two centre-backs. Then Ibrahimovic’s cross flew ever so slightly behind Mkhitaryan; then the Armenian blew minds. Allowing himself to fall forward, Mkhitaryan hooked his right leg up and used his heel to flick the ball past a bewildered goalkeeper. The goal meant nothing in terms of the result but redefined what it is possible for players to do, putting it on a similar plane to Cruyff’s turn, Panenka’s penalty and Beckham’s sarong. Of course, the goal shouldn’t have counted because Mkhitaryan was offside.
Behold the most beautiful evidence of television’s ability to influence young minds. Mkhitaryan’s goal against Sunderland was replayed a million times over the days that followed so when, less than a week after that goal, Alexis Sánchez delivered a cross between Crystal Palace defenders but fractionally behind Olivier Giroud, the Frenchman knew what to do. His scorpion kick was not original but might have been even better than Mkhitaryan’s in technical and aesthetic terms, since he had to raise his leg slightly higher and the ball crashed in off the crossbar, which is always pleasing. And he was onside.
It was the contrast that made this so beautiful, the difference between the skill and joyous impudence of Hazard’s dribble and the panic and slapstick clumsiness in Arsenal’s attempt to stop it. Hazard received the ball right in the middle of the centre and immediately shrugged off one token Arsenal challenge before skedaddling forward with a speed and menace that frazzled the opposition. Francis Coquelin tried to cling on to the the Belgian but was sent reeling backwards like he had fallen off a ladder. Laurent Koscielny was challenged to a dance-off and jigged off stage like a bad Ed Balls, leaving Hazard to shoot past Shkodran Mustafi and Petr Cech and into the net.
If there was a category for Most Futile Gesture of the season, Wayne Hennessey would win it hands down. The dive by Crystal Palace goalkeeper moments after the ball whizzed past him was never going to make any difference to the outcome of Andy Carroll’s amazing shot, although it did at least emphasis just how powerful that shot was. Few scissors-kicks have ever been struck so perfectly. This was Exhibit A to Z in the case against anyone whoever says that Carroll is just a great header of the ball.
Every goal of the season competition needs a blaster from outside the box. But this was more than a blaster, for Henderson did more than whack it and hope for the best. For a start, his first touch was perfect, turning Gary Cahill’s hurried clearance into the ideal set-up. Then he did more than fire the ball into the top corner from nearly 30 yards, he deposited it there with precisely the right amount of power and curl to make Thibaut Courtois’ full-spread dive inadequate. It was the only goal Henderson scored in an injury-ruined season but it was a masterpiece.
Richard Fahey, fresh from his triumph with Ribchester in Newbury’s Group One Lockinge stakes on Saturday, is spending some of his reward on petrol money on Monday by sending runners far and wide – to Redcar, Carlisle, Leicester and Windsor.
Of all his runners, Mr Lupton takes on the perhaps stiffest task in the six-furlong Listed race at Windsor. Mr Lupton has won on all types of ground and ran on strongly over this distance at Newmarket last time, winning readily.
He faces the Andrew Balding-trained Dancing Star. She looked a chip off the old block (Lochsong is an esteemed relative) when winning the Stewards’ Cup at Goodwood last year but was below form on her return, beaten six lengths by Marsha in the Palace House Stakes – though she was seen staying on well at the end over five furlongs. A return to what should be her best trip makes Dancing Star a big threat.
However, there is more tough opposition tonight – notably from Raucous (7.25). William Haggas’s runner has run 11 times and his form figures with Ryan Moore in the saddle are 1531 – including last time in a conditions race at Chelmsford, Raucous’s first race since being gelded.
Raucous had Pattern-race form as a juvenile and last season, having finished third in the Gimcrack Stakes at York and third in the Bengough Stakes at Ascot. Moore’s mount should prove difficult to beat this evening.
The nap goes to Luis Fernandez (2.10) at Redcar for the Kevin Ryan/Kevin Stott combination. The selection dwelt at the start at Beverley three weeks ago but finished well, looking worthy of being marked down as one to side with next time.
Towcester 2.00 Bally Lagan 2.30 Barton Knoll 3.00 Get Involved 3.30 Baraymi 4.00 Forever Field 4.30 Water Willow 5.00 Dontmindboys
Redcar 2.10 Luis Fernandez (nap) 2.40 Flashing Light 3.10 Spinnaka 3.40 Olivia Fallow 4.10 First Moon 4.40 Patchwork 5.10 Dreamofdiscovery 5.40 Oceanus
Carlisle 2.20 Ventura Dragon 2.50 Mr Orange 3.20 Pumaflor 3.50 Chicago Star 4.20 Four Wishes 4.55 Moonwise 5.25 Yorkee Mo Sabee 6.00 La Fritillaire
Windsor 5.55 Out Of The Flames 6.25 Dathanna 6.55 Lorelina 7.25 Raucous 7.55 Tirania 8.25 Fast And Hot
Leicester 6.05 Danehill Desert 6.35 Retrieve 7.05 Eolian 7.35 Compton Mill 8.05 Subatomic (nb) 8.35 To Dibba
Welcome to theguardian.com review of the 2016-17 Premier League season. Now that the campaign has ended we would like you to help us choose your favourite goal, the best referee and the best manager, and other winners in a total of 10 categories. We have nominated some contenders but this is just to get the discussion going: we would like your suggestions so that we can compile the best into final polls that you can vote on. The polls will be published at midday on Wednesday 24 May, so please tell us what you think. Thanks
It would be no surprise – OK, maybe a little one – if the screensavers on the phones of Claudio Ranieri and Antonio Conte featured the smiling face of N’Golo Kanté. It sure helps a coach to come across as a genius if he has a player dynamic enough to play several roles at once. Kanté, the common link between the rise and fall of Leicester City and the renaissance of Chelsea, dominated Premier League midfields again this season, becoming the first outfield player since Eric Cantona to win back-to-back top-flight titles with different English clubs. No opposing team was at ease when Kanté was on the pitch, sabotaging their attempts to cobble together moves and then helping to assemble Chelsea’s attacks. He scored only one league goal in the campaign but it was a summary of his season and the way he overwhelmed more vaunted names, as his sharp thrust and finish in October’s 4-0 thrashing of Manchester United left Paul Pogba floundering.
Last season it took Hazard nearly nine months to spawn a league goal but this term he returned spectacularly to form. He netted against West Ham on the opening day of the season and remained a decisive influence throughout the campaign, especially after his manager adjusted the team’s formation to give Hazard maximum freedom to create. That adjustment came after a defeat by Arsenal in September, and the Belgian underlined its wisdom by scoring one of the goals of the season when Chelsea swotted aside the same opponents in February. The success of Chelsea’s system depended to a large extent on the unique ability of Hazard to unlock opponents, and he delivered with impressive consistency.
His team-mates call him Dave for the sake of simplicity and he is a player with a knack for making everything seem effortless. The seamlessness of his switch from full-back to central defence was one of the keys to Chelsea’s solidity in the new formation introduced by Antonio Conte and helped bring the best out of David Luiz and make John Terry practically redundant. He was tough, smart and extremely reliable throughout the campaign. Azpilicueta is the legs of Chelsea’s back three, being faster than David Luiz and Gary Cahill, but he is also the brains, his impeccable defensive instincts having been honed by his experience of having played in a variety of defensive positions. Towards the end of the season he demonstrated his versatility by stepping into the wing-back role and scoring his first goal of the campaign with a crisp half-volley against Watford.
Tottenham had the meanest defence in the league, especially at White Hart Lane, where they conceded only nine goals in 19 matches. There were several reasons for that – the excellence of the full-backs and the midfield screeners – but Alderweireld stood out as a leader. Not only was he commanding as a defender, being dominant in duels and exceptional with his positioning whether in a flat back four or a three-man defence, but he also initiated many attacks thanks to his splendid range of passing.
The 21-year-old occasionally struggles to control his temper but over everything else on the pitch he has a precocious degree of mastery. He has the technique to wriggle or pass his way out of confined areas but his intelligence means he usually operates in open spaces, finding gaps against even the most vigilant opponents. His two goals in the victory over Chelsea in January were powerful evidence of that and also proved that he can finish as deftly with his head as with his feet. Tottenham placed a heavy responsibility on him to create and he shouldered it well, producing extraordinary consistency for such a young man.
Despite being injured for a chunk of the campaign the striker surpassed the goal tally that had earned him the golden boot last season. He scores all types of goals and works right across the forward line, having a knack for eluding markers while also creating space for team-mates such as Dele Alli and Heung-min Son. Without possessing the physical qualities of Romelu Lukaku, Kane is more difficult for defenders to contain.
The Premiership semi-final victory over Saracens was another coaching triumph for Rob Baxter and his management team at Sandy Park. It was not so much revenge for last year’s defeat in the final at Twickenham as confirmation that the Chiefs have improved since then, learning from each new experience in their remarkable rise this decade. Saracens have become the most proficient team in Europe at attacking from set pieces, able to create space out wide and score tries, a quality that helped them defeat Munster and Clermont Auvergne in the latter stages of the European Champions Cup. Exeter achieved an early advantage up front and Saracens were penalised five times in the scrum, where Mako Vunipola came under pressure while Geoff Parling so effectively disrupted the European Cup holders’ line-out that Owen Farrell had little quick ball from the top to launch; the home side fed off mistakes they forced. And Exeter reached the final from a line-out, mauling their way over the line. Not many teams beat Saracens; very few do so with the last play of a match. The Chiefs are evolving into a side that, like Sarries, adds up to even more than the sum of its parts. Paul Rees
• Match report: Exeter 18-16 Saracens• Steenson: Exeter can win Premiership after ending Saracens run
Saracens were rightly applauded off Sandy Park by both sets of supporters, despite having finished a narrow second. Had they defied their aching limbs and stayed on course for a double double it would have been a truly incredible effort; as Mark McCall rightly observed afterwards, they can still look back on this season with immense pride. In the cold light of day they missed the steadfast example of their injured captain, Brad Barritt, and found life distinctly awkward in the scrums. Even the best sides lose the odd match, however, and as back-to-back European champions, Saracens remain a formidable force. Robert Kitson
• Exeter pack shows there are worse things than Beast of Bodmin
The average Premiership crowd at the Ricoh this season is just shy of 20,000 after the second near sellout in a row – in the Premiership semi-final win over Leicester. That’s a near sellout of a 32,000-seat stadium, more than three times the size of Wasps’ previous home, which they struggled to fill at the best of times. They made the move just over two years ago. It’s an astonishing transformation and these new fans, wherever they have come from, seem to mean it. Yellow and black flags filled the stadium, as did the noise. The lesson would appear to be: play the rugby of the gods and they will come. Keep it up. Michael Aylwin
• Match report: Wasps 21-20 Leicester• Beale in race to be fit for swan song in Premiership final
We knew Leicester would be stroppy and difficult up front – and they were – but they were able to stay in the game courtesy of the flashes of attacking flair that are becoming de rigueur these days, and which they have struggled at times to apply this season. Freddie Burns and Owen Williams lined up in the double-fly-half formation favoured by, among others, England and Wasps. Both tries featured the pair working sweetly together. Shame they are both leaving but Leicester could field a midfield next season of George Ford, Matt Toomua and Manu Tuilagi, which would not be too shabby. MA
Jim Mallinder’s response to reports in France that Louis Picamoles has a pre-contract agreement with Montpellier was pointed. “Yeah, what is that?” Exactly what the Montpellier owner, Mohed Altrad, meant when he said “we have what we call a pre-contract” is unclear but it is becoming increasingly obvious that Northampton are digging their heels in. There is said to be a compensation offer of €1.5m on the table as Picamoles has two years of a three-year contract remaining but while it seems increasingly clear he wants to return to France, Saints are determined to hang on the No8, comfortably their best player this season. He was actually well shackled by Connacht in the European Champions Cup play-off semi-final but if Northampton have any genuine hope of holding on to him they will have to beat Stade Français in Friday’s final – and they will need Picamoles at the fore to do so. Gerard Meagher
• Match report: Northampton 21-15 Connacht
The Scarlets became the first team to secure an away victory in a Pro12 semi-final when they overwhelmed Leinster with 15 men and held on for 43 minutes after Steff Evans was sent off. His dismissal, for tipping Garry Ringrose in a tackle, ended what had been an exhilarating exhibition of attacking play from both sides. The Scarlets looked more like a New Zealand Super Rugby side than a Welsh region, so far removed from the structured, formulaic approach of Wales that players such as Scott Williams and Jonathan Davies, encouraged at this level to take risks, were like a new model of an outdated car. Evans was involved in all of their three tries in the 27-15 win, scoring the first and helping create the others, and they were all about pace, deft hands, running from deep, clever lines run by support players, and ambition. Perhaps Wales will take note but the omission of the flanker James Davies, a forward of perpetual motion, from the summer tour squad, suggests not. When the Lions toured New Zealand in 1993, some provinces were running ahead of the All Blacks in terms of creativity and that may be how it will turn out in Wales. PR
Good news for the Lions, better news for Richard Cockerill – Leigh Halfpenny appears to be hitting top gear as the season reaches a climax. He scored 21 points in Toulon’s 26-22 play-off victory over Castres ensuring the former Leicester director of rugby, temporarily in charge on the Cote d’Azur, has taken Toulon into the Top 14 semi-finals. And Cockerill will be hoping Halfpenny’s accuracy proves crucial again against La Rochelle before he joins the Lions. In the other semi-final Racing 92 travel to Clermont after Dan Carter edged his side past Montpellier in a bad-tempered affair. It ends any hope that he might play for the Baa-Baas at Twickenham but it seems the big-money stars are at least earning their corn. GM
Daniel Taylor: N’Golo Kanté. If he can keep Cesc Fàbregas out of the Chelsea team, he must be some player.
Barney Ronay: Friendly midfield interceptors are the fashion, but Harry Kane has been the outstanding single player: top scorer, team man and with just enough comic-book star quality.
Dominic Fifield: Eden Hazard, liberated by Antonio Conte’s switch in system, provided the cut and thrust which inspired Chelsea to their title success. Given his toils last season as he struggled with a hip complaint, his revival was eye-catching.
Paul Wilson: It probably doesn’t matter which Chelsea candidate gets the vote, so in the interests of sharing things around I am going to go for César Azpilicueta. He seems to be able to play in any position across the back line and his consistency and tenacity are unaffected.
Amy Lawrence: If you could bottle the spirit of Kanté and market it to football clubs it would be a bestseller. He has an ability to make others around him better, to make a game plan quicker. The way he carried his Leicester qualities so easily to Chelsea, to be transformative instantly, deserves all the plaudits.
Barry Glendenning: Jordan Pickford. Only in Sunderland’s first team because David Moyes was unable to lure Joe Hart on loan to Wearside, the 23-year-old pulled off the impressive feat of making himself one of the most sought-after young goalkeepers in Europe despite playing in the Premier League’s worst team. Although he’s prone to the increasingly rare gaffe, it’s difficult to pick holes in any aspect of Pickford’s overall game and it’s no exaggeration to say that without him, Sunderland might well have been relegated before the sighting of this spring’s first swallow.
David Hytner: Eden Hazard. Back to his very best. His ability to make the difference when it matters the most marks him out.
Scott Murray: Diego Costa kept Chelsea going throughout the autumnal odyssey that effectively decided the league, all the while staying in character as pantomime provocateur. Homeric. We’ll miss his entertaining presence when he’s gone.
Jamie Jackson: Dele Alli. Seventeen Premier League goals at 175 minutes per strike for a No10 is top class. At 21, a player with that edge all elite players possess has to get better.
Andy Hunter: Eden Hazard. The champions were not simply “a very defensive team”, as a former manager bearing sour grapes suggested. They were also the most devastating and intelligent team in the final third thanks largely to the Belgium international’s return to form.
Louise Taylor: Sam Clucas, Hull City; runner up, David Luiz, Chelsea. There are other, far more obvious, candidates but placed in the context of Clucas’s achievement in ascending five rungs of the league ladder in successive seasons it has to be the left-footed midfielder. Impressive since being shifted from a wide role to central midfield this term, the intelligence of Clucas’s passing bears the hallmarks of Glenn Hoddle, who persuaded him not to give up the game before honing his skills at his football academy in Spain. David Luiz, meanwhile, is lovely to watch and his re-invention in Antonio Conte’s back three has thoroughly confounded the doubters.
Stuart James: Gylfi Sigurdsson. Directly involved in 22 of Swansea City’s 43 goals. For a player to continually create and score so many goals in a team that spent almost the entire season fighting relegation is quite something.
Jacob Steinberg: After last season’s sabbatical, Eden Hazard rediscovered his mojo in thrilling style and found the consistency to go with his outrageous talent. N’Golo Kanté was a worthy recipient of the PFA and FWA awards, but Hazard was Chelsea’s match-winner on so many occasions.
Paul Doyle: Kasper Schmeichel. While the rest of last season’s champions lost their way, the goalkeeper was the only Leicester player to improve. Yes, there was that 6-1 defeat by Spurs but, taking a broader view, Schmeichel was an example to us all in these troubled times.
Simon Burnton: The brilliant, hard-working, humble and likeable N’Golo Kanté deserves all the player-of-the-season awards currently cluttering his mantelpiece.
Ed Aarons: N’Golo Kanté deserves his awards for winning a second successive Premier League title, but Christian Eriksen’s return to form coincided with Tottenham’s emergence as Chelsea’s only genuine challengers. Even 13 assists and eight Premier League goals do not explain the importance of the Denmark international to Mauricio Pochettino. César Azpilicueta also deserves a mention.
Sachin Nakrani: Gylfi Sigurdsson. The Iceland international directly contributed to almost half of Swansea’s Premier League goals and, quite simply, without him they would have been relegated, suffering all the fallout that comes with that, which, it should be remembered, includes people losing their jobs.
Daniel Taylor: Antonio Conte. Even José Mourinho has stopped – temporarily, at least – trying to undermine him. How, possibly, can anyone question what he has done to get Chelsea back on top?
Barney Ronay: Antonio Conte. Hurled together on the hoof a wonderfully well-grooved champion team, eased John Terry out of the picture without the slightest friction and on match days remains the most ludicrously excited man about anything ever.
Dominic Fifield: Antonio Conte. In a league crammed with elite managers, he adapted best to the peculiarities of the Premier League and ended up putting all the other big names to shame.
Paul Wilson: It was going to be Marco Silva until a few days ago, but now Hull are back in the real world after a brief visit to dreamland there seems no point in looking past the obvious. Antonio Conte could hardly have hoped for a better first season in England. In terms of impact, it says it all that he can now match Carlo Ancelotti’s double as well as José Mourinho’s Premier League record of wins in a season.
Amy Lawrence: Conte. From the very first game of the Premier League campaign when he celebrated a late win over West Ham with that zealous touchline passion, he has managed almost every situation with authority, class and style. In tactical alterations and man management, bringing the best out of characters as different as David Luiz, Diego Costa, Victor Moses and Pedro, he barely missed a beat.
Barry Glendenning: Antonio Conte. Charming and handsome, with the touchline demeanour of a man who has just had a large handful of red ants dropped down the trousers of his expensive designer suit, there is little to dislike about Chelsea’s manager. His switch to a back three in the wake of defeat at Arsenal has been hailed in some quarters as the greatest managerial masterstroke in the history of football and while that may be be over-egging the pudding somewhat, the manner in which he steered his team to the title with a minimum of fuss in a season when one or more of Messrs Klopp, Mourinho and Guardiola were expected to have his measure was no mean feat.
David Hytner: Antonio Conte. It has been another hugely impressive season for Mauricio Pochettino but Conte’s has been better. Took over a Chelsea squad with problems and, in what has been his first season outside of Italy, moulded them into champions.
Scott Murray: Here’s a respectful nod to Arsène Wenger, who in addition to yet another high league placing and yet another cup final, somehow maintained super-human levels of dignity despite intense provocation from an entitled minority. An extraordinary feat. His will be much the better look when this story is told 20 years from now.
Jamie Jackson: Antonio Conte. He coached the volatile Costa to 20 league goals and may win the classic English double in his debut season.
Andy Hunter: Conte is the stand-out choice, not only for winning the Premier League title in his first season in English football but for how he responded to potential crises – notably the 3-0 defeat at Arsenal and January’s stand-off with Costa.
Louise Taylor: Sean Dyche, Burnley. Antonio Conte clearly has a strong case while, despite narrowly failing to keep Hull up, Marco Silva turned water into wine in east Yorkshire. Then there’s Mauricio Pochettino, whose Tottenham team play fabulous football on around half the collective wage bill of other top six sides, but keeping Burnley in the Premier League is a significant achievement. Given the same relatively limited resources as Dyche, would José Mourinho or Pep Guardiola have done anything like as well?
Stuart James: Antonio Conte. Hugely impressive to win the title in his first season in English football – tactically astute, full of passion for the game and gives the impression that every player, even those not regularly in his starting XI, buys into his work.
Jacob Steinberg: A nod to Sean Dyche for keeping Burnley away from the relegation scrap, but it has to be Conte, who outperformed his rivals by reviving a misfiring, uneven squad with the power of his motivational qualities, tactical acumen and infectious will to win.
Paul Doyle: Sean Dyche. Burnley never looked like going down, which is remarkable.
Simon Burnton: Great as Tottenham have once again been under Mauricio Pochettino, Antonio Conte’s impact at Chelsea has been greater.
Ed Aarons: Antonio Conte. The Italian only arrived at Stamford Bridge a month before Chelsea’s first game of the season but has emerged as a title winner in his first season in English football. The switch to 3-4-3 has defined Conte’s success but the former Juventus midfielder has also shown his man-management skills in dealing with Diego Costa’s regular tantrums.
Sachin Nakrani: Antonio Conte. Winning the title in your first season in England is a superb achievement, particularly when it involves reinvigorating a squad that had been in turmoil during the previous campaign.
Daniel Taylor: Olivier Giroud’s scorpion kick for Arsenal against Crystal Palace.
Barney Ronay: Giroud’s running scorpion volley, a lovely move and a ludicrous finish, made all the more improbable by the fact he seems to stop mid-scorpion to winch his leg up a little higher, like a very stiff man trying to wriggle his way over a garden fence.
Dominic Fifield: Eden Hazard against Arsenal, sprinting away from Laurent Koscielny and holding off Francis Coquelin’s attempts to bring him down, then finishing before Shkodran Mustafi could block.
Paul Wilson: Sam Allardyce will have been more concerned about some unconvincing Crystal Palace defending, but Andy Carroll’s overhead kick against Crystal Palace takes some beating for wow factor. Not a team goal, perhaps, but Carroll put a lot of himself into it.
Amy Lawrence: The Emre Can/Giroud/Henrikh Mkhitaryan showpieces lead the way for individualism, but there was something that struck a chord about Willian’s goal for Chelsea at Everton in a game that felt so influential for the title. What a fine team goal. The quality of Cesc Fàbregas’s run and pass for Willian summed up the brio Chelsea rediscovered this season. That was the moment they felt undeniably like champions again.
Barry Glendenning: Gastón Ramírez. Possibly not the best, but almost certainly the only thing of interest any Middlesbrough footballer did all season – Ramírez’s fine solo effort sent goal-shy Boro on their way to their first home win. Picking up the ball inside his own half and encouraged by the strange reluctance of anyone in a Bournemouth shirt to close him down, the Uruguayan embarked on a 70-yard run down the inside left that climaxed with him abruptly cutting inside and slotting home. Buoyed by this rare moment of quality and inspiration, Middlesbrough went on to win three more Premier League matches, while their increasingly unpopular summer signing would go on to score only one more goal as his side sank below the depths.
David Hytner: Andy Carroll v Crystal Palace. Nothing has the ability to bring jaws to the floor more quickly than the thumping scissor kick. Especially when it is executed by a big man.
Scott Murray: Olivier Giroud against Palace. A finish so absurd it’s easy to forget the six-player pitch-long romp that preceded it, embellished by a centre-circle back-flick from Giroud himself. English football’s most eye-catching sweep forward since Terry McDermott scored against Spurs in 1978.
Jamie Jackson: Henrikh Mkhitaryan’s scorpion kick versus Sunderland on Boxing Day. Zlatan Ibrahimovic pings a cross over from the right and the Armenian lets go a flying back-heeled volley. Delicious.
Andy Hunter: Dimitri Payet, West Ham United v Middlesbrough. Other goals carried more weight in the context of the season – Emre Can against Watford and Eden Hazard’s v Arsenal being the most notable examples – but based purely on its merits this fleeting reminder of the quality the France international could bring to the Premier League had no equals.
Louise Taylor: Robert Snodgrass v Leicester City. The winner in a 2-1 shock opening-day victory against the defending champions for Mike Phelan’s side. When Wes Morgan could only half-clear Ahmed Elmohamady’s vicious cross, the ball fell to Snodgrass whose first-time, left footed, half-volley arrowed into the bottom corner.
Stuart James: Emre Can’s bicycle kick against Watford must take some beating. In fairness, Olivier Giroud’s scorpion kick against Palace is also worthy of a mention.
Jacob Steinberg: Gaston Ramírez’s slaloming 70-yard run against Bournemouth ended with a clever trick and a cool finish. Sure, Andy Carroll, Olivier Giroud and Henrikh Mkhitaryan all took the breath away with those scorpion kicks and bicycle blasts. But in an otherwise grim season for Middlesbrough, the fact Ramírez’s solo effort was a rare moment of excitement makes it all the more precious.
Simon Burnton: Olivier Giroud’s New Year’s Day scorpion kick wasn’t even January’s goal of the month, and there are a few rival volleys that compare with it, but to my mind it is the best of the bunch. It has grown on the scorer as much as it has grown on me: after the game he said he “was a bit lucky. It was the only thing I could do. I tried to hit it with a backheel and after it was all about luck”, but by March he was saying: “I don’t want to big myself up but goals like mine leave a mark on history. Andy Carroll’s [overhead kick] is magnificent, but maybe people won’t remember it in two years’ time. Mine, yes.”
Paul Doyle: Wayne Rooney against Stoke. It was a hell of a way to snatch a late equaliser, set a wonderful record and convince José Mourinho he could finally jilt an over-the-hill hero.
Ed Aarons: In a season of spectacular volleys, Emre Can saved the best for last. His brilliant overhead kick against Watford left nothing to chance, unlike Olivier Giroud or Henrikh Mkhitaryan’s scorpion kicks.
Sachin Nakrani: Olivier Giroud v Crystal Palace. In a season of notable scorpion/overhead kicks, this one edges it because of the slick counter-attack that preceded it – and which Giroud was involved in – as well as the height at which boot met ball prior to it looping into the net.
Daniel Taylor: At the risk of sounding like a misery, it’s not easy to think of a stand-out match this season. Nothing left me as excited as, say, seeing Monaco in the Champions League.
Barney Ronay: Swansea 5-4 Crystal Palace. Messy, wild and desperate at times, but this is basically what the Premier League is for.
Dominic Fifield: Bournemouth’s madcap 4-3 win over Liverpool was entertaining, but Crystal Palace’s win at Chelsea in April encapsulated everything about the baffling nature of the Premier League at times. Chelsea were superb going forward, playing wonderfully incisive and inventive football. Palace defended ruggedly and, somehow, kept them out.
Paul Wilson: The one that sticks in the mind is Manchester City 1-3 Chelsea. An eventful and entertaining game, with some dead-eyed finishing by Chelsea to leave Pep Guardiola moaning about Kevin de Bruyne’s miss for the rest of the season. A significant title pointer at the Etihad too, for the second successive season following Leicester’s statement win in February.
Amy Lawrence: Swansea 5-4 Crystal Palace. Lovely, wonderful, beautiful, panicked madness. The best of the Bob Bradley experience. Alan Pardew trying to put on a brave face. First on Match of the Day for an unanticipated game. What’s not to like?
Barry Glendenning: Bournemouth 4-3 Liverpool. They don’t get much more entertaining than this white-knuckle ride at the Vitality Stadium.
David Hytner: Swansea v Crystal Palace. Never mind the defending at both ends, this was a classic, loaded with drama, and the scenes after Fernando Llorente’s stoppage-time winner seemed to shake the Liberty Stadium. Both of the managers, Bob Bradley and Alan Pardew, were sacked within a month or so.
Scott Murray: Manchester City 1-1 Liverpool. It really wouldn’t have taken much for this game to have ended 5-0, 0-5 or 5-5. One of those.
Jamie Jackson: Burnley’s emphatic win over Liverpool at Turf Moor on the season’s second weekend punched a hole in the title pretensions of Jürgen Klopp’s team and suggested Sean Dyche’s men would survive. Those auguries were proved correct.
Andy Hunter: Everton 4-0 Manchester City. Selecting from Premier League matches attended, this raucous afternoon at Goodison Park stands out for many reasons. In Ronald Koeman’s eyes it was “really perfect” and a “total team performance” from Everton. It confirmed the emergence of Tom Davies, who scored his first goal for the club with an exquisite chip over Claudio Bravo at the Gwladys Street end, and brought a debut goal for Ademola Lookman with one of the teenager’s first touches in the Premier League. For Pep Guardiola, however, it underlined the defensive and mental frailties at Manchester City, represented the heaviest league defeat of his managerial career and left him conceding the title was beyond his team for this season.
Louise Taylor: If this means watched live, it’s a difficult one to answer. As north-east correspondent I’ve certainly seen a few candidates for worst game at Sunderland and Middlesbrough and the better ones I covered invariably involved Newcastle United in the Championship. One top-tier game does stick in the memory though; Hull 3-3 Crystal Palace in December. A six-goal thriller featuring a brilliant, mesmerising performance from Palace’s Wilfried Zaha.
Stuart James: Swansea City 5-4 Crystal Palace. A nine-goal thriller that was 1-1 with 25 minutes remaining – then all hell let loose. Bob Bradley and Alan Pardew, the respective managers, went through every emotion going and, in truth, it wasn’t really surprising that neither man lasted much longer in the job. For what it’s worth, the reporters at the game were also in a terrible state come the end.
Jacob Steinberg: Crystal Palace 0-4 Sunderland. Sunderland were so surprised about scoring four goals in a single half that they didn’t win another game until they were already relegated. In their defence, I’ve only just recovered from the shock as well.
Simon Burnton: Liverpool’s 4-3 win at the Emirates on the season’s opening weekend was everything you could ask it to be and more. Excellent attacking, lovely goals from open play, a gorgeous free kick, brilliant individual skill, embarrassing manager-hugging celebrations, sunshine, it had the lot. The only possible reaction was yes please, I’ll have nine months more of that. Which, sadly, neither team could deliver.
Paul Doyle: Leicester 4-2 Manchester City. Thrilling and at times brilliant, but also bizarre, outrageous and laughable. A snapshot of this season’s Premier League.
Ed Aarons: Swansea 5-4 Palace. Leading 4-3 with the game past the 90-minute mark, Alan Pardew must have felt pretty good. His team had just battled back from 3-1 down with only 15 minutes remaining to lead, only to surrender the points to Fernando Llorente’s double in injury time.
Sachin Nakrani: Manchester City 1-1 Liverpool. A high-octane, end-to-end, relentlessly-thrilling encounter only let down by poor finishing. A mention, too, for Swansea’s 5-4 victory over Crystal Palace. A madcap encounter that saw two goals in stoppage time and Alan Pardew fearing the worst.
Daniel Taylor: Keith Hackett. I see his criticisms of the current crop and marvel that he must never have made a mistake in his life.
Barney Ronay: Clatts. Will be missed, in part for his unintentional comedy, when he leaves for Sauds.
Dominic Fifield: Probably Martin Atkinson or Michael Oliver.
Paul Wilson: No idea. They all look the same to me. Let’s say Martin Atkinson.
Amy Lawrence: Michael Oliver doesn’t seem to want to be the star as much as some. He gives the impression of wanting the best game possible.
Barry Glendenning: Mike Dean. His no-look yellow card to Ross Barkley in the Merseyside derby at Goodison Park was a thing of beauty.
David Hytner: I don’t have strong feelings on the category this season. I’d still say Mark Clattenburg is the best.
Scott Murray: Referees are lightning rods for impotent frustration, rampant paranoia and myopic rage. Objective praise doesn’t come into it, it’s not what they’re there for.
Jamie Jackson: The video official – what a brave innovation. What? They still do not exist despite everyone else having access to ad nauseam replays?
Andy Hunter: Any nomination will incur the wrath of at least one club – though Anthony Taylor continues to improve – so in the interests of harmony let’s just say it’s not Jon Moss.
Louise Taylor: Probably Mark Clattenburg (despite missing the latter part of the season following move to Saudi Arabia.)
Stuart James: Not much to get excited about here. Martin Atkinson, Mark Clattenburg (yes, I realise he’s now gone) and Michael Oliver would be in the top three. Oliver, on a good day, gets the nod.
Jacob Steinberg: Michael Oliver gets my vote, capped by punishing Manchester United’s cynical rotational fouling on Hazard in the FA Cup.
Simon Burnton: Mark Clattenburg. He sometimes looks like he thinks he’s the best referee in the land, which is unappealing, but that doesn’t make him wrong.
Paul Doyle: Mike Dean. The only one to enforce the shirt-tugging directive with something close to consistency. And technology will never have mannerisms as entertaining as his.
Ed Aarons: Mark Clattenburg and Martin Atkinson usually get the biggest gigs from Uefa and Fifa, but Michael Oliver remains the outstanding referee in the country. Still only 32, the Ashington official has been in charge of more matches (31) than anyone else and issued just two red cards.
Sachin Nakrani: Unlike 99% of people who watch football in this country, I don’t have a strong view on referees. They all seem roughly the same and their mistakes, while occasionally astonishing, never entice me into reaching for a pitchfork.
Daniel Taylor: Mamadou Sakho. People laughed when a January loan signing was nominated for Crystal Palace’s player of the season award. But without him Palace would be down.
Barney Ronay: Leroy Sané. What a lovely mover, what a calm head, what a nice young man. Seems to have no real limit to how good he could be.
Dominic Fifield: N’Golo Kanté was key to Leicester City’s startling success in 2016, and just as influential to that of Chelsea in 2017. A blur of energy and interceptions, and at the heart of everything Chelsea have achieved.
Paul Wilson: Where would Manchester United be without Zlatan Ibrahimovic’s contribution? Hardly the best value signing, and not exactly one for the future either, but until injury struck he did what he had been brought in to do.
Amy Lawrence: Hard to argue with Kanté for overall impact. Honourable mentions to Mamadou Sakho who made a big difference to Crystal Palace’s predicament, and Gabriel Jesus for being a great signing who looks bound to shine more for Manchester City in future.
Barry Glendenning: N’Golo Kanté.
David Hytner: David Luiz. Has shown that underneath the mad hair lies an intelligent reader of the game. Has excelled in the middle of a back three. Long passing remains beautiful to watch.
Scott Murray: Gabriel Jesus, a score-any-sort genius destined to rattle in an absurd number of goals. Had he not picked up that injury in February, Manchester City would have given Chelsea a race.
Jamie Jackson: Eric Bailly. Manchester United appear to have filled the Nemanja Vidic-sized gap created by his 2014 departure. Costing £30m from Villarreal, the Ivorian is a tough, dominant 23-year-old who can be a fixture for a decade.
Andy Hunter: Paul Clement. Swansea City were bottom and looking certain for relegation when they appointed their third manager of the campaign in January. Astute signings such as Tom Carroll and convincing a squad to buy into yet another managerial voice enabled the former Bayern Munich assistant to have an impact that can shape a club’s short-term future.
Louise Taylor: Eric Bailly for Manchester United. At £30m he wasn’t cheap but goodness knows how far United and Mourinho might have sunk without Bailly’s central defensive excellence.
Stuart James: N’Golo Kanté would have to be up there, though it was a rather obvious piece of business on Chelsea’s part, given the Frenchman’s impact at Leicester the season before. With that in mind, and taking it account the size of the fee, I’ll go for Victor Wanyama, Tottenham’s £11m recruit from Southampton.
Jacob Steinberg: On the basis that signing Kanté was a no-brainer after last season’s exploits, one has to admire Chelsea for making the return of David Luiz a success. It’s easy to forget that there were plenty of doubts about the Brazilian when he signed on deadline day.
Simon Burnton: Crystal Palace won six of the 30 games they played without Mamadou Sakho in their line-up this season, but five of the eight in which the Liverpool loanee appeared, keeping five clean sheets in the process (counting their 1-0 defeat at Spurs, in which he was forced off after 57 goalless minutes and they conceded in the 78th). No other signing was so transformational.
Paul Doyle: Mamadou Sakho. Liverpool outcast, Crystal Palace saviour.
Ed Aarons: Hard to argue with N’Golo Kanté for £30m, who transferred from one blue title-winning shirt to another with minimum of fuss. Victor Wanyama, £11m from Southampton, has had almost the same effect for Tottenham, albeit for a third of the price.
Sachin Nakrani: Zlatan Ibrahimovic. I was among the people who thought the 35-year-old, while undeniably talented, would struggle in England. Instead he has gone on to become one of the best free transfers in Premier League history.
Daniel Taylor: Pep Guardiola. Maybe our expectations were too high but, after all that waiting, it has been a real disappointment. Claudio Bravo comes a close second, which probably illustrates the point.
Barney Ronay: Claudio Bravo of course, the first goalkeeper I’ve ever seen receive an ironic round of applause from his own fans for making a save.
Dominic Fifield: Moussa Sissoko has hardly pulled up any trees since becoming Tottenham Hotspur’s record signing, which has not come as much of a surprise to those who watched him regularly at Newcastle United.
Paul Wilson: The man who was tired of London. Dimitri Payet was a big letdown at West Ham United. The club’s 2015-16 player of the year and inspiration for a stadium mural at least ought to have been able to manage a full season before leaving.
Amy Lawrence: Jointly awarded to Manchester United and Arsenal, neither of whom were able to mount a serious challenge for the Premier League title despite recruiting heavily last summer to apparently boost their push.
Barry Glendenning: Pep Guardiola. Tasked with his most difficult job in management so far, even by his own admission the Manchester City manager has come up woefully short.
David Hytner: Simone Zaza. His ludicrous penalty at the Euros for Italy was merely the prelude. Saw his loan spell at West Ham United cut short after 11 matches and no goals because, had he played a bit more, the club would have had to buy him outright. Moved to Valencia in January.
Scott Murray: Pep Guardiola arrived in England with a big reputation ... for being super-surly in press conferences. His glorious disdain for daft questions has at times shone through – this was simply majestic – but not yet with Fergie or Louis van Gaal levels of consistency. He’s got the press corps rattled, though, if the repeated raising of the subject on the Sunday Supplement is anything to go by. He now needs to go in for the kill.
Jamie Jackson: Claudio Bravo. Pep Guardiola probably blew Manchester City’s hopes of winning anything in his first season when bombing out Joe Hart and paying £14.5m for the Chilean on 25 August. Bravo in a word? Hapless.
Andy Hunter: Claudio Bravo. There were more expensive mistakes than the Manchester City goalkeeper – Tottenham’s £30m outlay on Moussa Sissoko for example – but his recruitment was fundamental to how Pep Guardiola envisaged his first season in the Premier League and served only to undermine it. That is not to say it was a mistake to replace Joe Hart, who has toiled at Torino, only that Bravo was the wrong choice.
Louise Taylor: Moussa Sissoko, Tottenham Hotspur. Rafael Benítez is rightly proud of persuading Spurs to part with £30m for a midfielder who played a big part in Newcastle United’s relegation last year and whose Euro 2016 cameos for France flattered to deceive. Indeed when HMRC recently raided St James’ Park, club staff joked about whether they were investigating “the theft of £30m from Spurs.”
Stuart James: A few in the mix here – Borja Bastón at Swansea, Jordon Ibe at Bournemouth and Ahmed Musa at Leicester all come to mind. But Claudio Bravo, Manchester City’s £17m goalkeeper, is surely the standout candidate. What were you thinking of, Pep?
Jacob Steinberg: Eleven games, no goals and one shot that went out for a throw: put your hands together for Simone Zaza!
Simon Burnton: José Mourinho might end the season with two trophies and one lengthy unbeaten run, but sixth place represents significant underachievement. Plus he continues to be extremely aggravating.
Paul Doyle: Giannelli Imbula. Stoke’s record signing once seemed to have the potential to dominate Premier League midfields, now he can’t get in the squad ahead of Charlie Adam.
Ed Aarons: So many to choose from after a summer that saw Premier League clubs spend money like never before. Borja Bastón and Jordon Ibe have both disappointed after arriving as Bournemouth and Swansea’s record signings, but Leicester’s Ahmed Musa has failed to recapture the form that saw last year’s champions pay £17m for his services.
Sachin Nakrani: David Moyes. Sunderland’s season has been a tale of unrelenting misery with the manager a central figure. Yes the squad he inherited was poor, but claiming in August – August! – that they were locked in a relegation battle hardly helped matters. The Scot stunk the place out from there.
Daniel Taylor: Gary Neville and Jamie Carragher both do it properly and, if necessary, will criticise their former clubs. Their Monday night analysis is, more often than not, more entertaining than the actual matches.
Barney Ronay: Obvious, but still Gary Neville, who stays ahead of Jamie Carragher mainly because he doesn’t have that weird habit of taking a really long breath and just standing there not speaking for ages, before eventually saying “... you look at the defence ...”
Dominic Fifield: Frank Lampard showcased his punditry ability over the latter weeks of the season, and looks a natural in the role.
Paul Wilson: Frank Lampard seems to have what it takes, being both knowledgeable and articulate. Keith Andrews looks like one for the future. Steve McManaman is still pretty good, but seems to be getting more Scouse as he grows older.
Amy Lawrence: Graeme Souness. Always worth listening to, and boy does he look like he means it.
Barry Glendenning: The erudite opinions of Sky Sports pundit Danny Higginbotham are invariably passed off as my own in pub discussions about the Championship, which I don’t see a lot of.
David Hytner: The standard is improving year-on-year. I like Graeme Souness and Jermaine Jenas, while Roy Keane is worth watching simply for the fear he puts into the studio.
Scott Murray: The word pundit is derived from the Sanskrit for “learned man”. So working on an etymological basis, rather than the modern definition of “ex-pro phoning it in to Sky Sports News for coin”, how about Ken Early of the Second Captains? Fiercely intelligent and witty analysis which frequently sails off into the avant-garde.
Jamie Jackson: Jamie Carragher. Always adds something and always emotes being open to differing points of view.
Andy Hunter: Graeme Souness. There was a strong temptation to go for a different choice this year but then came Souness’s withering critique of José Mourinho’s excuses following Manchester United’s goalless draw at Southampton. Anger still suits a pundit who offers cutting insight from both the player and manager’s perspective.
Louise Taylor: Alan Shearer. Radically improved, refreshingly opinionated and, above all, interesting.
Stuart James: Gary Neville is no longer leading the way on this one. Jamie Carragher is decent. I also like Alan Shearer, who is so much better than when he first came on the scene, and Graeme Souness. You want a winner? Carragher.
Jacob Steinberg: Ian Wright was a bit too excitable at the start of his television career, but his humour and decency shone through this season.
Simon Burnton: Sky’s Monday Night Football continues to offer the best football analysis on British television, and Gary Neville remains its sharpest, most perceptive voice.
Paul Doyle: Joey Barton. He talked a good game.
Ed Aarons: Danny Murphy deserves a mention for his no-nonsense approach but Jermaine Jenas has been insightful and informed as the BBC has stepped up its game this season.
Sachin Nakrani: Chris Sutton. Listening to a man who hates humanity give his views on Burnley 1-1 Hull is what radio was made for.
Daniel Taylor: England’s motorway network after night matches. There isn’t a back road of Shropshire that I don’t seem to know these days.
Barney Ronay: Once again no actual title race, for all the attempts to massage something out of Spurs pulling to within waving distance. Backed up by a top seven streets ahead of everyone else. For a league that prides itself on its competitiveness, it has not been that competitive
Dominic Fifield: The constant chopping and changing of kick-off times, which admittedly makes me sound like a grumpy old sod. Friday night football just does not feel right, and don’t get me started on midday kick-offs on a Sunday. Those Hull City supporters who made it to Selhurst Park on the penultimate weekend performed heroics.
Paul Wilson: Same as ever, all the tasteless and intelligence-insulting gambling ads that surround the game. Instead of just making an example of Joey Barton, the FA should chuck all the money-lenders out of the temple.
Amy Lawrence: Fly-by messages. To paraphrase the great Brian Clough, “If God had wanted us to watch football in the clouds he’d have put grass in the sky.”
Barry Glendenning: The breezy disdain with which TV schedulers continue to treat people who actually go to games by pairing teams from opposite ends of the country for lunchtime or Monday evening kick-offs.
David Hytner: Quite simply, how was the Wenger situation allowed to run wild over Arsenal’s season? There are sagas and there are sagas. This one would have tested the patience of saints, let alone football fans.
Scott Murray: Last season’s freewheeling Chelsea-Tottenham donnybrook suggested the old-fashioned bench-emptying brawl would soon be back in fashion. But no. Referees and captains keep intervening and calming things down. Let events take their natural course, will you! Better out than in, and vicarious fun for those of us who couldn’t fight our way out of a wet paper bag.
Jamie Jackson: Players having to be ‘man-managed’. You’re a Premier League footballer. You’re living the dream. Any chance of man-managing yourself?
Andy Hunter: The blatant disregard for away supporters when selecting kick-off times. Has always been a problem but it appears to be getting worse. The proposals for next season’s festive schedule – which if implemented would see six rounds of matches played between 16 December and 1 January to shorten the season ahead of the World Cup – threaten to continue that trend.
Louise Taylor: The negativity of David Moyes at Sunderland and Aitor Karanka at Middlesbrough. No wonder their teams were relegated – Sean Dyche and Marco Silva (who would surely have kept Hull up if he’d had a whole season in charge) – proved that fortune really does favour the brave.
Stuart James: Guesswork being applied to key refereeing decisions – don’t point to the spot if you’re not sure. José Mourinho’s moaning has become pretty tiresome as well.
Jacob Steinberg: The tedious moral outrage that greeted Claudio Ranieri’s sacking by Leicester City, who looked a good bet to go down before replacing the Italian with Craig Shakespeare. So what if the players wanted him out? It doesn’t make them rats or weasels; it makes them professionals.
Simon Burnton: Nonsensically enormous home-and-away performance dichotomies. It his hard to comprehend how Burnley, a team capable of winning so many points at home, can manage only seven away. Hull and Tottenham are also guilty here. On the other side of the coin there is Crystal Palace, whose consistency is a marvel and a joy.
Paul Doyle: People complaining about player power as if blind obedience is better.
Ed Aarons: For all the money flowing into the Premier League, the lack of any formulated plan to encourage managers to give young English players a chance remains absent. Bridging the gap from youth team to first team will be vital to maintain the overall standard of our competition in future years.
Sachin Nakrani: The ubiquity of betting adverts. I chose this last season and, if anything, it seems to have got worse, with the issue particularly pressing in light of figures showing Britons lost £12.6bn through gambling last year.
Daniel Taylor: It is obviously sensitive, to say the least, but it’s time Liverpool and all the relevant people on Merseyside listened to the growing number of fans who realise safe-standing should be embraced.
Barney Ronay: Give the FA Cup winners a Champions League spot just to confuse everybody.
Dominic Fifield: I repeat: how about having 25-man match-day squads, with a guarantee that at least five have been nurtured through the club’s academy or youth system? That might encourage a few more youngsters on the benches with a chance of game-time in the top flight.
Paul Wilson: Everton to finish higher than Liverpool, please. Failing that, it would be good to see a few more of the now quite encouraging number of English and home grown managers in the Premier League operating in the top half of the table.
Amy Lawrence: With experiments increasing, the sooner the Premier League can fast-track video referees to assist with difficult decisions, the better.
Barry Glendenning: The record, José. Change the bloody record.
David Hytner: It has been said before but I strongly believe that the summer transfer window should close the night before the Premier League season starts. I’d also like to see transfer fees made public, including loan fees.
Scott Murray: All pseudo-heraldic club crests to be ditched and replaced with a 1970s-influenced stylised logo. Good, crisp, clear design, and guaranteed to appal small-c conservatives everywhere.
Jamie Jackson: Can we have a rolling seven-day-a-week Premier League programme, please?
Andy Hunter: The trial of, or at least a renewed debate at the appropriate level about, safe standing at Premier League grounds.
Louise Taylor: The abolition of Friday night games. Invariably inconvenient for fans who actually go to matches.
Stuart James: Clamp down on dissent – far too much of it goes on still. And the sooner video assistant referees are introduced, the better.
Jacob Steinberg: Stop squeezing in Premier League matches on Thursday nights.
Simon Burnton: Scrap Friday night football altogether. Unpopular with TV viewers and therefore schedulers, but still officially a thing. Football fans deserve and need a night off.
Paul Doyle: Teams should be docked a point for losing without scoring.
Ed Aarons: The introduction of video assistant referees is long overdue, as is retrospective punishment for players found guilty of ‘simulation’. The challenge will be to ensure the VAR system does not impinge on the general flow of the game.
Sachin Nakrani: No more José Mourinho. I’m John Lennon, sat at a piano, asking you to imagine a Premier League without the sour-faced, relentlessly spiteful, ultra-negative and generally washed-up manager of Manchester United. Marvellous, isn’t it?
While the Premier League season is over and most top-flight players having forsaken the metaphorical beach for actual sand and surf at whatever this summer’s unimaginative holiday destination of choice for footballers happens to be, the Rumour Mill doesn’t get to relax. Speculation never stops, which means we can only dream of enjoying a carefully choreographed, grandiose and preposterously self-indulgent farewell as long as there’s speculation about the future of Demarai Gray to peddle. The Sunday Mirror reports that Liverpool, Everton and Tottenham Hotspur are all interested in signing the young Leicester City striker, but that it is Jürgen Klopp who is “closing in on a £12m deal” for the 20-year-old and is confident of getting his man once the transfer window opens in July.
Reports from Germany suggest Bayern Munich midfielder Arturo Vidal has been whispering sweet nothings in the ear of his Chilean international team-mate Alexis Sánchez, in the hope of persuading the Arsenal midfielder to sign for the Bavarian side. Having failed to qualify for the Champions League for the first time in 20 years, Arsenal’s hopes of keeping their unsettled star player look increasingly slim.
Elsewhere, it’s being reported that the Gunners could lose reserve goalkeeper David Ospina, who may well be off to Turkish side Fenerbahçe. Despite having two years left on his contract, the Colombian is reported to be eager to leave the Emirates in order to get more first team and reports suggest Arsenal won’t fight to hard to keep him.
Middlesbrough central defender Ben Gibson is a man in demand and could find himself the subject of a bidding skirmish between Leicester City and West Brom. Chelsea and Liverpool have also been keeping tabs on Gibson, who says he feels he “belongs” and “feels comfortable” in the Premier League, but will take time out to ponder what to do next. The nephew of Boro chairman Steve, it has been suggested that Gibson might feel some sort of familial obligation to give his uncle another season’s service in an effort to help Middlesbrough bounce straight back up to the Premier League. Should he depart, a sizeable fee of £20m has been mentioned.
Manchester United remain eager to re-sign Michael Keane, who they sold to Burnley in January 2015. “The one thing we know is that we are in a strong position,” said Keane’s current manager Sean Dyche, who says the 24-year-old central defender will continue playing for him “if nothing happens that’s suitable for us”.
L’Equipe report that Lyon winger-turned-striker and long-term Arsenal target Alexandre Lacazette has agreed to sign for Atlético Madrid, who finished third in La Liga, behind Barcelona and Real Madrid. Following a campaign in which the 25-year-old scored no fewer than 37 goals in all competitions, the French sports daily says he has a verbal agreement to join Atlético.
After incurring the wrath of Sunderland’s travelling fans at Stamford Bridge by refusing to acknowledge their presence despite agreeing to help facilitate John Terry’s elaborate long goodbye, David Moyes remained in London to discuss his future at the Wearside club with owner, Ellis Short. Rumours persist that the Scot might leave the relegated club, despite his talk about planning ahead of next season being well under way.
The federal government has released details of a national sports plan, central to which is an idea to implement a lottery for funding inspired by examples around the world such as the UK model, and the creation of an independent sports tribunal.
The sports minister, Greg Hunt, unveiled the initiative at the Australian Institute of Sport on Monday, outlining a vision for sport in Australia for the next 10 years while attempting to allay fears a lottery would encourage gambling.
The plan, which focuses on four central themes – participation, performance, promoting health through physical activity, and integrity – will be introduced as part of the 2017-18 budget.
It is open for public submissions until 31 July, and Hunt promised key stakeholders – including the states and territories, the Australian Sports Commission (ASC) and their respective sports, the Australian Olympic Committee (AOC) and Paralympic Committee and Commonwealth Games Australia – would be consulted.
The government said it was seeking to understand Australia’s expectations of the sports sector through the creation of a national plan.
“The question of funding is always important,” Hunt said. “This plan will consider, with a strong bias towards support, a national sports lottery. There are great examples around the world, most notably the UK, of funding on a secure basis coming from a national sports lottery.”
When asked if a lottery would add to Australia’s gambling problem, which is particularly prevalent in sport, Hunt again highlighted the example of the UK.
“The way this works is this is a public-good lottery and that concept is something that is well accepted,” Hunt said. “We see in Western Australia a public-good lottery, we see in the United Kingdom public-good lotteries.
“That’s a very accepted approach and it is a sensible way to provide additional permanent sports funding which I think is fair, reasonable [and] appropriate.
“If you have it legislated and highly regulated and it’s a public-good lottery then that’s sensible.”
As with the UK model, Olympic sports would stand to benefit from lottery funding and the announcement was welcomed by the Australian Olympic Committee.
The AOC chief executive, Matt Carroll, said the initiative was “critical” for Australia’s sporting future. “The national plan will bring clarity on the roles and responsibilities of all the parties involved and establish the support, infrastructure and funding required to achieve the collective sporting outcomes for the country,” Carroll said.
Hunt said the plan for a lottery, which has the potential to deliver up to $50m a year, had the backing of the ASC chairman, John Wylie, and John Coates, the recently re-elected president of the AOC, both of whom have long been advocates of the idea.
In the UK, sport has benefited from lottery funding since 1997. Since then, British athletes have won 633 Olympic and Paralympic medals and GB have re-emerged as an international sporting power.
The establishment of a sports tribunal – something of a national equivalent to Switzerland’s court of arbitration of sport – aims to address the plan’s final aim of integrity.
Hunt said without an independent body, sports are effectively able to sit in judgment of themselves in matters such as doping, a situation that “we should move beyond”.
“There are always the players who are in the shadows and we want to keep those out of Australian sport and we want to rub them out of Australian sport,” Hunt said.
Any national tribunal would need the cooperation of each individual sport, but Hunt was confident there would be a willingness to participate and said he would be surprised if there was an Australian sport that wouldn’t opt in.
The former chief executive of the Australian sports anti doping authority (Asada), Richard Ings, welcomed the initiative and said a central independent tribunal was both “essential” and “overdue”.
Hunt said the government hoped to have the plan finalised and in place by the end of this year.
Avery Bradley’s three-pointer danced around the rim and dropped in with less than a second left and the Boston Celtics, blown out in the first two games of the Eastern Conference finals and playing without star Isaiah Thomas, stunned the Cleveland Cavaliers 111-108 on Sunday night in Game 3 to end the champions’ 13-game postseason winning streak.
Bradley’s shot from the left wing bounced on the rim four times before going down. It capped a furious comeback by the Celtics, who trailed by 21 in the third quarter before rallying to tighten up a series that appeared to be over.
Avery Bradley...for the Game 3 WIN!@celtics cut series to 2-1, defeat @cavs 111-108. Marcus Smart: 27 PTS, 5 REB & 7 AST. pic.twitter.com/LUEc01pXhn
Marcus Smart made seven three-pointers and scored 27 points, and Bradley had 20 points for the Celtics. They were given little chance after losing by 44 in Game 2 and then losing Thomas for the rest of the postseason because of a hip injury.
“Everybody had to step up their game tonight especially with one of our brothers down,” Smart said. “Our love and support goes out to Isaiah. We wish he could be here but we understand. We just kept fighting. Everybody did their part.”
Kyrie Irving scored 29 points, and Kevin Love had 28 for Cleveland. The Cavaliers dropped to 10-1 in the postseason with their first loss since Game 4 of last year’s Finals.
LeBron James had one of the worst games of his postseason career, finishing with 11 points and six turnovers.
“I had a tough game, period – not just in the second half,” James said. “Me personally, I didn’t have it. My team-mates did a great job of keeping us in the game, building that lead. But me personally, I didn’t have it. That’s all I’ve got to say about my performance.”
Still, the Cavs were in control leading 77-56 in the third quarter after making 14 3-points in the first half. But Cleveland got complacent, Boston got hot and the Celtics, who arrived at Quicken Loans Arena earlier on Sunday morning for their shootaround without Thomas and looking somewhat defeated, never gave up.
They caught the Cavs at 95-95 on Smart’s three-pointer and then matched the Cavs basket for basket in the final minutes in one of the most entertaining games of what he been a mostly boring postseason.
Boston’s Jonas Jerebko’s baseline jumper put the Celtics ahead 108-106 with 30 seconds left before Irving scored on a drive to tie it with 10.7 seconds left. Following a timeout, the Celtics worked the ball to Bradley, who found himself open and then calmly knocked down a shot that goes straight into Celtics lore.
For Cleveland, the loss was a wake-up call on their march toward a possible third straight Finals and a seemingly inevitable rematch with Golden State. The Cavs had been playing a glorified game of H.O.R.S.E. with the Warriors, who are undefeated and can complete a sweep of San Antonio on Monday.
The Cavs hadn’t lost in the postseason since Game 4 of last year’s finals, and they came in tied with the 1988-89 Los Angeles “Showtime” Lakers for the longest winning streak in postseason history.
With Thomas back home, the Celtics could be forgiven for feeling down after Thomas, their inspirational leader was shut down with a hip injury he first sustained in March. However, coach Brad Stevens liked his team’s energy leading up to tipoff and felt confident they would play hard.
“Our guys are itching to play,” he said. “Obviously, we’re here for a reason, and we’ve got tough-minded, competitive guys who have largely been guys that have had to really earn their way up in this league.”
They earned their way back into the series.
Game 4 is Tuesday night in Cleveland.
Johnathan Thurston will play a key support role in the buildup to next week’s State of Origin opener after being named in Kevin Walters’ Queensland squad as 18th man, but the Cowboys star is “very unlikely” to feature on the Suncorp Stadium pitch as he continues to struggle with a shoulder injury.
Thurston, who has played 36 straight Origins, will be given every chance to prove his fitness this week and take his tally to 37 in Brisbane, but Walters said the Maroons are preparing for Game I on the assumption he will not make it.
Anthony Milford, the Brisbane Broncos five-eighth, has been handed the No6 jumper in place of Thurston, having been given the nod ahead of Melbourne’s Cameron Munster.
“Johnathan Thurston is under a fitness cloud,” Walters said at the team announcement on Monday. “Given his position, it’s our right to provide an opportunity to get himself fit and play.
“It’s unlikely but we wanted to give Johnathan every chance to prove his fitness over the week. Given he’s played 36 straight Origins, he’s earned his right to come down and see if he’s able to play.”
Walters added: “It will be a massive help for everyone even if he can’t be on the field. Just being around the camp [will help].”
Walters said Milford was ready to make the step up to representative football.
“Anthony deserves an opportunity at the next level. We know he’s more than capable,” Walters said.
There was no place for Billy Slater, whose Origin career may now be over at the age of 33. The Storm star, who has returned to good form since undergoing a second shoulder reconstruction, was again overlooked in favour of Darius Boyd in the No 1 jumper.
“It was a very tough decision that we had to make around Billy,” Walters said. “He has been a great player for Queensland, but we just felt that [for] game one, Darius was Queensland’s best player in last year’s series and on the Four Nations at the end of last year he was in the top two or three players for Australia and again this year in the Test he was outstanding.
“And the second part of that is, I think it would have been a little bit unfair on Billy to put him under so much pressure in game one of a series [with] everyone expecting him to come out and change the world.
“We’ve relieved him of those duties and I know Darius will get the job done for us. He’s a great player and deserves first crack at the No 1 jumper.”
In the NSW camp, Nathan Peats and Jake Trbojevic will make their Origin debuts for the Blues after being named by coach Laurie Daley on Monday night.
The pair are among six changes made to the team that claimed last year’s dead rubber in Homebush. Brett Morris, Jarryd Hayne and Mitchell Pearce earned recalls while Boyd Cordner was appointed captain, taking over from Origin retiree Paul Gallen.
On a dramatic opening day of Blues camp, Peats’ call-up came hours after Penrith hooker Peter Wallace arrived in camp at The Star only to be ruled out for six weeks with a groin injury.
Wallace was set to make his first Origin appearance since famously playing with a ruptured testicle in the last of his four games in 2009, but was hurt in the Panthers’ win over Newcastle on Sunday.
Peats’ selection likely spells the end of the Origin career of long-time vice-captain Robbie Farah, who was in a three-way battle with Peats and Wallace for the No9 jumper.
In contrast, Morris, Hayne and Pearce will re-enter the Origin arena after all three missed last year’s series defeat for different reasons.
Morris made way following the emergence of Panthers star Josh Mansour, however has been given a reprieve due to the state’s sudden wing crisis.
Mansour suffered a major knee injury playing in the Four Nations last year, while Manly’s Tom Trbojevic was widely tipped to fill the role before also picking up a knee issue a fortnight ago.
Morris will form a new-look left edge with Hayne, who marks his return to the NSW line-up for the first time since their drought-breaking series win in 2014.
Queensland team: Darius Boyd, Corey Oates, Will Chambers, Justin O’Neill, Dane Gagai, Anthony Milford, Cooper Cronk, Dylan Napa, Cameron Smith (captain), Nate Myles, Josh Papalii, Matt Gillett, Josh McGuire. Interchange: Michael Morgan, Sam Thaiday, Aidan Guerra, Jacob Lillyman. 18th man: Johnathan Thurston.
NSW team: James Tedesco, Blake Ferguson, Josh Dugan, Jarryd Hayne, Brett Morris, James Maloney, Mitchell Pearce, Aaron Woods, Nathan Peats, Andrew Fifita, Josh Jackson, Boyd Cordner (captain), Tyson Frizell. Bench: David Klemmer, Wade Graham, Jake Trbojevic, Jack Bird.
Netherlands-based youngster Ajdin Hrustic has been included in the Socceroos ahead of their big June schedule featuring the all-important World Cup qualifier against Saudi Arabia.
Hrustic is one of six uncapped players, including recalled Riley McGree, to be named in coach Ange Postecoglou’s extended 30-man squad on Monday, after Australia successfully lured the Melbourne-born 20-year-old attacker amid reported overtures from Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Uncapped former Adelaide United defender Dylan McGowan, who has just signed with Portuguese top-tier side Pacos Ferreira, joins his older, China-based, brother Ryan as the Socceroos’ first set of siblings since 2008.
Ryan will be locked in a right-back battle with Milos Degenek and retained Sydney FC speedster Rhyan Grant in a squad that will be reduced to 23 for the 8 June World Cup qualifier at Adelaide Oval and 13 June friendly with world No1 Brazil at the MCG, before flying to Russia for the Confederations Cup.
Intriguingly, Postecoglou has opted for four goalkeepers, adding Swansea City’s Mark Birighitti to his last-picked trio of incumbent No1 Mat Ryan, newly-promoted Bundesliga keeper Mitch Langerak and Sydney FC’s A-League custodian of the year Danny Vukovic.
Yet Brad Jones was overlooked despite helping Feyenoord to the Dutch title as the Eredivisie’s top-performing goalkeeper.
As expected, departing joint A-League Golden Boot striker Jamie Maclaren has been recalled two months after his surprise exclusion from March’s qualifying double-header.
The new German SV Darmstadt signing joins Tomi Juric and Tim Cahill as options to lead the line in Postecoglou’s new-look 3-2-4-1 formation.
In a major boost, playmaking wizard Tom Rogic returns hours after his Celtic finished the Scottish Premier League unbeaten, while Jackson Irvine is back thanks to his sterling form to keep Burton Albion in the Championship.
However there was no good news for central defensive stalwart Matt Spiranovic, who is back playing for Chinese second-division side Hangzhou Greentown but was seemingly deemed not fit enough following the quad injury that sidelined him for the March double-header.
Australia sit third in qualifying for Russia 2018, three points behind the top-two automatic qualifying spots currently held by Japan and Saudi Arabia.
It essentially renders the home clash with the Saudis a must-win if the Socceroos are to avoid being thrown into a play-offs dogfight.
“Initially our energy and focus will be solely on the World Cup qualifier against Saudi Arabia in Adelaide,” Postecoglou said. “It is the most important game we will play over the June period.
“The group is tight at the moment and Saudi Arabia will be a tough opponent but we have always been strong on home soil, and I see no reason why that won’t continue in front of our fans at Adelaide Oval.”
Socceroos: Mustafa Amini, Aziz Behich, Mark Birighitti, Tim Cahill, Milos Degenek, Alex Gersbach, Craig Goodwin, Rhyan Grant, Ajdin Hrustic, Jackson Irvine, Mile Jedinak, James Jeggo, Tomi Juric, Robbie Kruse, Mitch Langerak, Mathew Leckie, Massimo Luongo, Jamie Maclaren, Dylan McGowan, Ryan McGowan, Riley McGree, Mark Milligan, Aaron Mooy, Tom Rogic, Mathew Ryan, Trent Sainsbury, Brad Smith, James Troisi, Danny Vukovic, Bailey Wright.
A New Zealand rugby union player is in an induced coma after suffering a cardiac arrest during a local match.
Bevan Moody, 22, collapsed and stopped breathing 15 minutes before the end of Waitohi’s first division Tasman Trophy match against Nelson at Neale Park on Saturday.
He was treated on the pitch by team management and then paramedics for 30 minutes before being transferred to Nelson hospital.
The Tasman Rugby Union (TRU) said it was “deeply saddened” by the news.
“Our thoughts and hearts are with Bevan’s family, friends, team-mates and with the Marlborough rugby community,” said the chief executive of Tasman Rugby, Tony Lewis.
“The immediate focus over the weekend was to ensure Bevan’s family were given space to deal with the situation and his rugby team were fully supported. The Rugby Foundation is in contact with his club and are assisting.”
Moody, a front rower, has represented Marlborough and Tasman at group age level and is a former New Zealand Under-20 trialist.
Last week Daniel Baldwin, a 19-year-old player from Wellington, died in hospital after suffering an on-field head injury in a match at Ngati Toa Domain, north of Porirua.
Ronald Koeman was not in the mood to bite when the issue of Ross Barkley’s present and future was presented to him at the end of a flip-flop, relaxed, season-wind-down at Arsenal. Koeman gives the impression he would not be too fussed if an enigmatic homegrown talent headed for the exit during the close season. Still sitting on the contract offer from the club, Barkley was dropped to the bench this weekend and when he came on there was not much in the way of impact. “My focus is to improve the team,” Koeman said. “We will see if there is interest in players. They will knock on the door and talk to the board of the club and, if that happens, then we will speak to each other about that situation.” A statement on Barkley is due on Monday and it wouldn’t be a great surprise for the end of this Goodison story to be nigh. Amy Lawrence
Match report: Arsenal 3-1 Everton
Burnley fans have good reason to feel happy after securing their highest final top-flight placing since 1975, when they came 10th in the old First Division. After a season in which the two clubs with whom they were promoted last season, Middlesbrough and Hull, sank amid upheaval, the Clarets are a model of stability and sound planning: not breaking the bank and wisely putting their trust in a capable, long-standing manager, Sean Dyche. Yet there were causes for concern in the closing months of the season. Burnley’s much-trumpeted strength at home has weakened recently – they have won only once at Turf Moor since the end of January – and defeat by West Ham dumped them in 16th place, only six points off the drop. All of which might help guard against complacency for their summer’s planning. Michael Keane and Tom Heaton are likely to attract intense interest from further up the Premier League. Dyche wasn’t afraid to splash the cash where he felt he needed to in the January window and some judicious recruitment will be needed again before everything starts up again in August. Tom Davies
Match report: Burnley 1-2 West Ham United
After staged substitutions, a five-goal thrashing and a tearful farewell, Antonio Conte waited until well after the final whistle to deliver perhaps the most surprising assessment of the day. “If you ask me who you think the favourites are now, I think it’s Arsenal,” said the Italian as thoughts turned to next week’s FA Cup final. “They only have this possibility to make for themselves a ‘good season’ by winning the FA Cup. So we must prepare in the right way this week. I’m not talking tactically. I’m talking about motivation, the right fire in our soul and our hearts. Because thinking we will now achieve the Double is the real danger for us. We must think like winners, not like losers.” That offered an insight into Conte’s mind-set for this week but also for next season when his desire to defend the Premier League will be just as ferocious. This team will not be permitted to rest on their laurels. Dominic Fifield
Match report: Chelsea 5-1 Sunderland
Ehab Allam, Hull’s vice-chairman, used his programme notes to attempt to put a positive spin on relegation. “One thing we have managed to do this season is protect the club through sensible financial decisions,” said Allam. Stopping just short of claiming he was all about “strong and stable leadership” he did, though, say Hull were on a “stable footing for the new season”. Boasting a £7.7m profit on player trading over the season and preparing to receive £47m of parachute payments next term, so the club should be. “This summer will be a vital one and we’re looking forward to it,” said Allam. “Plans are already underway in terms of rebuilding and re-shaping the squad to give ourselves the best possible start to the season.” A sometimes contradictory character, Allam made some very bad decisions last summer – most notably leaving Steve Bruce with such a weak squad that the former manager felt compelled to resign – but pulled off a brilliant coup in appointing Marco Silva as manager in January. It seems near certain that Silva will move on but Hull certainly possess the finances to “do a Burnley” and return to the top tier at the first attempt. Whether or not they will invest them in the playing staff remains a moot point. If not, serious questions will need to be asked of the owning Allam family. Louise Taylor
Match report: Hull 1-7 Tottenham
Craig Shakespeare did as well as any manager could have done after being appointed Leicester’s caretaker manager in February and, in that sense, he has put forward a strong case for being given the job for next season. Most of the players want him to get it but that may not necessarily be a huge point in his favour, as there needs to be significant turnover in playing staff this summer. Some players look likely to leave – such as Riyad Mahrez, although his performances for most of this campaign may have put off suitors who fancied him last year – and others need to be squeezed out. Most obviously Leicester need a couple of new centrebacks to cover and eventually replace Robert Huth and Wes Morgan. Paul Doyle
Match report: Leicester 1-1 Bournemouth
The Jürgen Klopp revolution – copyright any number or t-shirts and scarves on sale outside Anfield – has delivered Champions League football in two seasons. In point of fact it has delivered entry to the playoff round, though Liverpool are seeded and will not be complaining at their fate when they compare notes with supporters of Arsenal or Manchester United. A two-legged preliminary contest against a team of the calibre of Sporting Lisbon, CSKA Moscow, Hoffenheim or Steaua Bucharest cannot be taken lightly, however, particularly given the state of anxiety Liverpool worked themselves into when faced by relegated Middlesbrough.
Klopp will have had the opportunity to augment his squad by the time the play-off comes around, and he is thought to be looking at strengthening central defence and midfield. But what he really needs to restore is the Anfield fear factor. Poor home form was what led to the last-day jitters and if teams such as Crystal Palace, Southampton and Bournemouth can come to Anfield and get a result there is no reason why Europe’s mid-tier clubs should not be confident of doing the same. Perhaps Klopp does not need a revolution so much as a reboot. What made Liverpool unassailable in Europe in the first place was being more or less unbeatable at home. Paul Wilson
Match report: Liverpool 3-0 Middlesbrough
As a man sacked in controversial circumstances as England manager in early October Sam Allardyce is entitled to view his reincarnation as Crystal Palace manager in the “all’s-well-that-ends-well” category. Despite Sunday’s loss against Manchester United at Old Trafford Allardyce guided the Eagles to a fine 14th-place finish after taking over a side only a point above the relegation zone on 23 December. Whatever the view of his football methods, Allardyce usually gets the job done. This time he did so with the help of three unlikely yet crucial victories. As he said: “Beating Chelsea, Arsenal, Liverpool was a great thrill. Without those victories we’d be relegated, down and out.” Now comes the nitty-gritty of building for next season. “We’ll be making decisions on a few players in the coming days, then dipping into the transfer market,” said Allardyce. Jamie Jackson
Match report: Manchester United 2-0 Crystal Palace
As a section of Southampton supporters took to booing Claude Puel while he made his third and final substitution four minutes from time, nobody was left more baffled by the negative noise surrounding the Frenchman than his opposite number, Mark Hughes. “It is a little bit puzzling,” the Stoke manager said in his post-match press conference, before referencing Saints’ eighth-placed finish. “Maybe it is the expectation. When you raise the expectation – and Southampton have been excellent for a number of years now – expectation levels rise and people think they are disappointed. But if you look at it in the whole, maybe they haven’t done as bad as people are making out.” The football, especially at St Mary’s, has been largely uninspiring but there have undoubtedly been highs and lows across the 53-game season. Hughes, whose own team finished 13th, might just have a point. Ben Fisher
Match report: Southampton 0-1 Stoke City
Swansea City’s most influential player is almost certain to have a big decision to make this summer. After another hugely impressive season at the Liberty Stadium, during which Gylfi Sigurdsson scored nine Premier League goals and assisted 13, offers are sure to be tabled for the Icelander. Clement is adamant Swansea do not need to sell and also believes Sigurdsson’s experience at Tottenham Hotspur, where he completed only nine Premier League matches between 2012-14, will play on the midfielder’s mind. At the age of 27, Sigurdsson will want to be a regular starter wherever he is playing next season and it is questionable whether that would the case if he joined a top-six club. Everton, on the other hand, may be able to give Sigurdsson that platform, which would give him a bit of a dilemma. As for Swansea, they desperately hope he stays put and continues to be the club’s leading light. Stuart James
Match report: Swansea City 2-1 West Brom
Pep Guardiola’s delight at securing Manchester City’s place in the Champions League thanks to their 5-0 win over Watford felt a little overplayed. The first trophyless season of Guardiola’s managerial career has not been easy and City’s owners cannot be satisfied with the way Chelsea were able to charge away with the Premier League title. The time has come for significant change. These players have underachieved for the third consecutive season and some of them will have to leave, with Willy Caballero, Gaël Clichy, Jesus Navas, Yaya Touré and Bacary Sagna potentially following Pablo Zabaleta out of the exit. Guardiola said he will start to think about signings on Monday. Upgrades are required in goal, defence and central midfield if City are going to challenge Chelsea. Jacob Steinberg
Match report: Watford 0-5 Manchester City
Scott Dixon had the fastest lap and the fastest four-lap qualifying average in 21 years on Sunday to win his third Indianapolis 500 pole.
The New Zealander finished with a qualifying speed of 232.164mph, the best since Arie Luyendyk’s track record of 236.986mph in 1996. Dixon’s first lap of 232.595mph also was the fastest since Luyendyk’s record lap of 237.498mph in 1996.
Rookie Fernando Alonso will start fifth in his first oval race next Sunday. The two-time Formula One champion averaged 231.200mph. Alonso’s feat was all the more impressive after smoke was seen billowing from his car earlier in the day. “I think the car was better than yesterday,” he told the BBC. “We had an over-boost problem in the final corner, so the engine was like hitting the brakes and I lost a bit.”
Smoke billowing out of the car pic.twitter.com/sCoQwAK0xS
Dixon will be joined on the front row by Ed Carpenter, a two-time pole winner who finished second at 231.664mph. Defending Indy champion Alexander Rossi of Andretti Autosport will start on the outside of row one after going 231.487mph.
“It feels so good,” Dixon told ABC. “I did have to lift, but that first lap was just huge. This season has started so great. The emotions are so crazy. Hopefully we can repeat 2008, when we won from pole.”
Alonso was faster than two former winners, Will Power and Tony Kanaan, on the 2.5-mile oval.
Assuming both teams can still walk after two truly epic Premiership semi-finals, the English club season is set for a ripper of a Twickenham finale. If the showdown between Exeter Chiefs and Wasps is even half as thrilling as Saturday’s twin peaks it will be a rare treat, even if the significant shoulder injury that has ruled Billy Vunipola out of the Lions tour has now cast a cloud over the latter stages of the domestic season.
On paper it will look pretty routine to anyone who missed the games in favour of, say, attending a society wedding: the top two regular season sides made home advantage count and will now meet in the final. That simplistic summary does not reflect the intensely dramatic reality: the aggregate margins at Sandy Park and the Ricoh Arena amounted to just three points and neither victory was sealed until the closing seconds.
For Warren Gatland it was a mixed blessing; while Vunipola leaves a huge hole, Sarries’s other five Lions representatives are now free to join pre-tour squad training in Ireland this week, as are his five Leinster players following their home loss to Scarlets in the Pro12 semi-finals. Had both sides made their respective finals they would have been forced to fly to New Zealand barely 48 hours later and could have had only a limited role in the trip’s opening fixtures.
Exeter’s extraordinary 18-16 victory against Saracens, in particular, underlined how hard it is for even the best players to back up repeatedly. Sarries were impregnable in the European Champions Cup final against Clermont Auvergne in Edinburgh, while the Chiefs had a whole extra week to prepare. It was not the solitary reason Saracens lost – their director of rugby, Mark McCall, was outstandingly gracious in defeat – but it clearly played a part, particularly either side of half-time.
Gatland, not to mention England’s Eddie Jones, will also have noticed how several lower-profile contenders rose splendidly to the challenge in both games. On the day, the Lions hooker Jamie George found himself out-snarled by his opposite number Luke Cowan-Dickie while Mako Vunipola had his hands full dealing with Harry Williams, the Exeter tight-head who will be touring Argentina with England this summer.
The Zimbabwean-born Don Armand, capped at Saxons level, also proved more than a match for Saracens’ illustrious back-row, although Billy Vunipola did not look like a man nursing a season-ending injury. And then there was Henry Slade whose now-fabled left-footed 60-metre punt to the corner set up the last-minute winning score for another fast-emerging young Chief, Sam Simmonds.
McCall described it afterwards as “one of the great kicks of all time” and suggested it had been the difference between success and failure: “He puts that anywhere else and I would be sitting here talking about one of the great wins and fights from a team who were a bit tired.”
Slade was typically modest, stressing his forwards still had to do a load of hard work to engineer the score, but revealed that his local knowledge of kicking down the east terrace touchline with a prevailing south-westerly breeze at his back had helped.
“With only a minute left, I had to go for it; I’ve had the kick hundreds of times in practice,” Slade said, acknowledging the ball had flown “a couple of metres” closer to the corner than intended. “I am just thankful it came off but it was only half the job. The boys had to put in a hell of a drive to get over the line. It was not just about the kick.”
To say the subsequent celebrations were wild is to undersell the west country pandemonium that followed. Saracens have not lost a major knockout game for more than two years and have not missed a domestic Twickenham final since 2013. Their hopes of a “double double” have now been extinguished while Exeter, beaten finalists 12 months ago, stand within 80 minutes of becoming English league champions for the first time in their history.
All involved at Chiefs feel they are now a far more focused side who will be disappointed if they do not complete the job. “This year we have had a change in mindset,” Slade said. “We were happy to have got where we did last season but I think we are that bit better. We have such confidence and belief in ourselves. Every time we step on to the field we don’t contemplate losing. I hadn’t even considered not being in training this coming week.”
Neutrals should also be well entertained: rare is the game between Wasps and Exeter that is not a vivid spectacle. The last meeting between the sides in February was a 35-35 draw while, collectively, the two sides scored 175 tries during the regular season. Wasps have not made a Premiership final for nine years and, despite injury doubts over Kurtley Beale (hamstring) and Nathan Hughes (ankle), their skipper, Joe Launchbury, hopes the 21-20 win over a gallant Leicester, clinched by Josh Bassett’s 78th-minute try, will prove a springboard to renewed glory.
“There is pressure but that is what finals are about,” Launchbury said. “You expect to play a top side and we are certainly getting that. We are really going to enjoy this week but we don’t want to be passengers.”
English crowds will miss out on the thrill of watching Dale Steyn snake in to bowl this summer but in Kagiso Rabada, Russell Domingo, the South Africa coach, believes his side possess a strike bowler for whom similar modern greatness is possible.
Rabada turns 22 on Thursday and yet his cricketing CV is already one pointing in this direction, having spent the two and a half years since his Proteas debut in late 2014 claiming 150 international wickets across all formats as the fast bowling cognoscenti purr about an easy, athletic action and batsmen trudge off with an accepting nod of the head.
In Test cricket the highlights reel from his 71 wickets in 17 caps includes 13 against England in Centurion last year, while Australia woke up to his charms during the 2-1 series defeat at home in November when Rabada picked up 15 victims as Faf du Plessis’s side induced a hefty – if all too brief – spell of antipodean soul-searching.
One-day cricket kicks off the South African tour of England and a three-match series starting at Headingley on Wednesday that leads into the Champions Trophy. This, too, is a format Rabada has enjoyed in his early career, with his 57 wickets at 25 runs apiece the most by any quick since the last World Cup and including a hat-trick on debut against Bangladesh in a six-wicket haul. Little wonder, then, that with Steyn out of the entire trip through injury and Kyle Abbott having defected to Hampshire at the start of the year, the head coach views the 6ft 2in right-armer from Johannesburg as his key man this summer.
“He could be as good as Steyn,” said Domingo, whose side take on Northamptonshire on Sunday in their second warm-up fixture of the tour. “He’s a fantastic prospect for us and we’re expecting really big things from him this tour. He’s got pace and he’s got a wonderful head on his shoulders, with a great outlook on life.
“If he takes his shirt off you can see why he doesn’t get too many injuries – he’s an unbelievable athlete. We have to manage it because he’s a fantastic bowler who plays all formats for us and we have to be careful how we play him because he’s a special cricketer.”
Michael Holding has spent some time passing on advice in an informal capacity and the West Indies great insists the man team-mates call “KG” must not be overburdened at such a young age, but this repeated warning has only ever related to workload – he wants Rabada to be a shock, not stock bowler – rather than hype.
Eddie Jones has revealed that Denny Solomona is likely to miss England’s tour to Argentina due to a foot injury after omitting the New Zealand-born wing from his squad to face the Barbarians next Sunday.
Solomona will be further assessed on Monday but Jones, who has handed a surprise call-up to Richard Wigglesworth, conceded he was not optimistic over the 23-year-old, who has scored 11 tries in 15 matches for Sale since his controversial cross-code move in December.
Marland Yarde and Mike Haley are also in the 29-man squad preparing to face the Baa-Baas and are standing by to go to Argentina in place of Solomona, who qualified to represent England in March having completed the required three-year residency period. “He’s got a mid-foot strain. It puts him in doubt [for Argentina],” Jones said.
“He’s going to see a specialist tomorrow and we’ll know definitely then. We’re not hopeful, we believe it’ll be pretty doubtful that he goes on tour. It’s bad luck for the kid because he did really well in the couple of training sessions I saw him. He’s a nice boy and he’s got potential to be a good player for us.”
Last October Anthony Watson, Jack Nowell and Sam Jones all picked up injuries in a training camp on the south coast and Jones said: “It’s Brighton mate, they all happen at Brighton.”
With Solomona’s injury, Exeter, Wasps, Northampton and London Irish all still in action this week and Piers Francis only joining the squad in Argentina, Jones is still without 15 of the 31-man touring party he named last month. He has, however, been boosted by the availability of the Bath-bound flanker Sam Underhill, Leicester’s Ellis Genge and the Saracens pair Alex Lozowski and Nick Isiekwe, while Wigglesworth is selected in an England squad for the first time since the 2015 World Cup. He replaces the New Zealand-born Willi Heinz, whose inclusion in the Brighton camp raised a few eyebrows.
“It’s an opportunity to have a look at him and that’s what the Baa-Baas game is for,” said Jones, who will name a new captain with Dylan Hartley still on club duty with Northampton. “He’s always been a good player; I think he’s been playing a little bit better. I’ve always felt that, if we needed another senior half-back, we’d have a look at him and nothing has changed there.”
Asked if the 33-year-old Wigglesworth needed any persuasion to join the squad, Jones said: “I’ve spoken to him a few times previously. It’s a normal thing, when you’re English and play English club rugby, you want to play for England. Only one player has knocked me back. I won’t name him but you can work it out for yourself, he’s playing in France.”
Wigglesworth will not go to Argentina except as an injury replacement – Danny Care has been nursing a stomach problem but is due to return to full training on Monday – with Jones confirming he will not change the squad he named last month unless he needs to.
Last week Jones lamented that he was working with some players that were “seventh or eighth choice” in their positions and, while he has been boosted by the availability of losing Premiership and Pro12 semi-finalists, add in the 15 players in camp with the British & Irish Lions and Jones’s squad for the team to face the Barbarians still has a rookie feel to it. At hooker, for example, with no Hartley or Luke Cowan-Dickie, he must choose between the uncapped Rob Buchanan and Jack Singleton.
“They’ve both got a lot of work to do. Both have got a good deal of potential but young Singleton looks like he likes his English breakfasts too much,” said Jones, who referenced Ben Curry, Will Spencer and Jamal Ford-Robinson as uncapped players who have impressed in the camps in Brighton and Teddington during the past two weeks.
Jones will also get the chance to make a closer assessment of Underhill, a specialist openside flanker tipped for a bright future. “It’ll be good to have a look at him,” Jones said. “We’ve watched him a lot for the Ospreys and we feel he’s got the opportunity to take the next step forward. I think he’s a level-headed boy, he’s committed, he’s self-driven. He’ll handle all the hullabaloo and get on with being a good rugby player.”
George Ford, meanwhile, is likely to start on kicking duty for England for the first time since this end-of-season fixture 12 months ago, when Wales were the opponents. He missed six out of seven kicks at goal and was booed by the Twickenham crowd but Jones has no concerns. He said: “ I’ve seen Owen Farrell have bad days but I’m confident George is a good enough goalkicker.”
England training squad: Forwards Josh Beaumont (Sale), Rob Buchanan (Harlequins), Will Collier (Harlequins), Ben Curry (Sale), Tom Curry (Sale), Tom Ellis (Bath), Charlie Ewels (Bath), Jamal Ford-Robinson (Bristol), Ellis Genge (Leicester), Ross Harrison (Sale), Nick Isiekwe (Saracens), Chris Robshaw (Harlequins), Nick Schonert (Worcester), Jack Singleton (Worcester), Will Spencer (Worcester), Sam Underhill (Bath), Mark Wilson (Newcastle). Backs Mike Brown (Harlequins), Danny Care (Harlequins), Nathan Earle (Saracens), George Ford (Bath), Mike Haley (Sale), Sam James (Sale), Alex Lozowski (Saracens), Joe Marchant (Harlequins), Jonny May (Gloucester), Ryan Mills (Worcester), Richard Wigglesworth (Saracens), Marland Yarde (Harlequins).
Jürgen Klopp said Liverpool must qualify for the Champions League more frequently after sealing a top-four finish and completing an “outstanding” season with victory against Middlesbrough.
Georginio Wijnaldum, Philippe Coutinho and Adam Lallana scored against Steve Agnew’s relegated team as Liverpool secured the win required to finish above Arsenal in the race for Champions League qualification. A Champions League play-off in late August, when Liverpool will be seeded in the draw, will determine whether Klopp’s team reach the lucrative group stage.
Liverpool have qualified for the Champions League only twice in eight seasons and their manager said the club’s status demands it becomes a regular occurrence. “It makes a difference financially of course but it is the sports side of things that is more interesting,” Klopp said. “It is the best tournament in Europe. They might say differently in South America but in my opinion there is maybe nothing better in the world. You want to be there. Liverpool needs to be there consistently.
“I am not saying we are already in but I am already looking forward to it. We will be really strong and will really fight for it. We want to be there. In the last 10 years Liverpool was not a part of it too often. We should do everything to change this. The step is for us to be around the best teams in the world because we are at one of the best clubs in the world.”
Champions League qualification will enhance Liverpool’s appeal in the transfer market this summer and Klopp admitted that work had begun on landing his leading targets. He said: “It is not that I will sit together with Michael Edwards [Liverpool’s sporting director] tomorrow and think about what we need. Most of the decisions are already done. We will be prepared. Tomorrow we fly to Australia [for a post-season friendly against Sydney FC on Wednesday] and when we come back I have a bit of work to do, just a few phone calls to make, before holiday.”
Liverpool had spent only two weeks outside the Champions League places since September and Klopp claimed fourth place reflects the progress made during his first full season as manager. “It is really outstandingly good. Everything feels good at this club at the moment. We deserve this position: 76 points is an outstanding number.
“We all know what happened in January, not sure all of us agree why but the explanation is injuries and too many games. In February we suffered from the games in January and in March we were back on track. We learned a lot in this year about ourselves and we can use it.
“We learned that we are not confident enough in general. When something doesn’t work it feels something slips through your finger. I am really happy we achieved something we didn’t achieve too often in the past. You need to feel the improvement, the next step.
“I am really happy about the situation and to learn things in football can happen. No season in football always goes up; there are dips too. We showed we can still come back from these times and we can work with this.”
The British and Irish Lions squad preparing to head to New Zealand has suffered a massive blow with the withdrawal of England’s Billy Vunipola because of injury. The Saracens’ No8 has a damaged shoulder which requires further treatment, forcing head coach Warren Gatland to call up Wasps’ James Haskell instead.
Vunipola was among the key forwards in Gatland’s armoury, having become an increasingly mature force for both club and country. He played the full 80 minutes in his side’s 18-16 defeat to Exeter Chiefs at Sandy Park on Saturday but has since informed the Lions management he feels unable to join the tour party, who are due to fly out next Monday.
“It is really disappointing for Billy and we know how much he was looking forward to joining the squad, “ said Gatland. “He has been carrying an injury, feels he wouldn’t be able to contribute fully to the Tour and needs further medical treatment. We really appreciate his honesty in making this decision and wish him luck with his recovery.”
The Lions can still call on Wales no 8 Taulupe Faletau and Ireland’s CJ Stander, with Gloucester’s Ross Moriarty another possible Test alternative, but there is no question the 24-year-old Vunipola’s absence will be keenly felt on and off the field. His brother Mako remains available but there are few back-rowers anywhere in the world with Billy’s compelling mix of power and exuberance. He missed the bulk of the Six Nations championship with a knee ligament injury sustained on club duty but played a central role in Saracens’ successful defence of their European Champions’ Cup title against Clermont Auvergne in Edinburgh.
Rather than turn to the experienced Irish Lion Jamie Heaslip, Gatland has instead plumped for Haskell, who has previously never been on a Lions tour and will join the squad next Sunday following the Aviva Premiership Final. The flanker has played provincial rugby in New Zealand and can be relied upon to throw himself whole-heartedly into the fray whenever the opportunity arises. Other specialist No 8s such as Wasps’ Fijian-reared forward Nathan Hughes have, for now, been passed over but the attrition rate in modern rugby is such that every half-fit forward should probably keep his phone on.
The news will certainly cast a shadow over this week’s training camp at Carton House near Dublin, where 30 players will be in attendance. Routine medical screening of the squad will be conducted over the next 24 hours, with Gatland due to give a further update later on Monday.
Vunipola, who has 34 caps, is the second England international to withdraw from the originally-selected squad, with Leicester scrum-half Ben Youngs having pulled out because his brother Tom’s wife Tiffany is seriously ill. Youngs has been replaced by Scotland’s captain Greig Laidlaw, with Gatland clearly opting for experienced cover wherever possible. The Lions are due to arrive in New Zealand a week on Wednesday and play their first fixture in Whangarei on Saturday week.
New Zealand also have their own injury concerns with Kieran Read, Dane Coles and Ben Smith among key players who have spent time on the sidelines lately. The Lions have only won one series in New Zealand, in 1971, and were defeated 3-0 the last time they encountered the All Blacks in 2005.
Real Madrid’s fans gathered at the fountain of Cibeles, celebrating before their team had even finished playing at Rosaleda. Those who were in Málaga celebrated too, singing their way through the final minutes as the team eased through them, success long-since secured. There was to be no drama on the final day and no late twist, just a first league title in five years. An early goal from Cristiano Ronaldo set Madrid on their way as they eased towards a 2-0 victory that might yet be the first step towards a domestic and European double that has eluded them for 59 years.
Madrid had gone into the final day knowing that a single point would be sufficient; the surprise was that for much of the night it appeared even a defeat would have been enough, with news coming through that Barcelona were trailing at the Camp Nou. The Catalans eventually came back from 2-0 down to win 4-2 but theirs was an empty victory. Madrid’s was a comfortable one, no space for a surprise. It was over almost as soon as it had begun – if there had ever really been a chance.
A loose ball fell to Isco. He received, looked up and slotted it through the gap for Ronaldo, setting off from the centre-forward position, his territory now. Running clean through, his finish had more than a hint of that other Ronaldo – the great Brazilian – about it: a touch to control, another to take him beyond Carlos Kameni before he rolled it into the net. Once he had begun to move, there was never any doubt. The clock said 1min 37sec – or it would have if the league had not taken the absurd decision to prohibit stadium scoreboards from telling the time.
It was early, anyway, everyone knew. Soon they also knew that Barcelona were trailing 1-0 at the Camp Nou. Amid all the talk about Málaga getting a surprise result, no one seemed to have contemplated the possibility that it would be Eibar who did so. If Takashi Inui’s goal 600 miles or so north-east of here made little practical difference – Madrid’s fate was always in their own hands – it did make their position more comfortable still. If it stayed like that in Barcelona, never mind a solitary point, they could lose and still take the title. Instead, they led.
That it was Ronaldo and Isco who combined for the goal was appropriate; they are the men who have led Madrid towards the finish in recent weeks, when the late goals that defined much of the first half of the season have often given way to early ones, drama reduced to a minimum. Isco has given them a control and subtlety previously lacking. Ronaldo, rested and rotated, has been decisive. This is the eighth season in which he has reached 25 league goals, but it is when he has scored that really matters, not how many. This was his 14th goal in eight matches.
Much had been said about Málaga’s application – all the more so because their manager, Míchel González, is a former Madrid legend. But made a match of this. For much of the half they rolled forward and beyond the visitors. Sandro Ramírez, the former Barcelona player, was a man on a mission. He drew two saves from Keylor Navas. The second was sensational, Navas crashing into the post as he reached a wonderful free-kick. Another Sandro shot flashed wide and two Keko headers missed the target, Málaga were on top. Madrid, though, were top and never seemed set to relinquish that position.
At half-time Barcelona were at least four goals away from winning the title – and they had to be the right four. But the next to arrive was Madrid’s. Sergio Ramos reached a Luka Modric corner, his shot coming back off Kameni, via Raphael Varane’s chest, to Benzema who scored from close range. If that was the “wrong” goal, a roar from the Madrid fans at the Rosaleda welcomed another. Incredibly Eibar’s Inui had scored again. Even when Barcelona did score, it was not their doing but an own-goal. Leo Messi’s penalty was saved by Yoel at the Camp Nou, it summed up their day and maybe even their season, and although they did eventually get the second, and then a third, Madrid were there now and they knew it. They had been from the start.
You would like to think that last Friday morning, Gillon McLachlan entered AFL House in the manner of an undertaker, walked past the burgeoning HR department and towards the sign announcing how many days had passed since the last workplace accident. There, with visible regret, he climbed up on the ladder and flipped the number back to zero.
The accident from the day before was the announcement of a potential wildcard round to decide the last two spots in the top eight – an idea that could be introduced as early as next year. The proposal would likely see two wildcard games – seventh versus 10th and eighth versus ninth – with the winners then entering a finals format. Although a more radical model could see the winner of six teams in the 13th-18th placed pool winning a wildcard spot.
But there is nothing resembling regret from AFL’s head office, and instead the wildcard round is simply the latest sally in a war on common sense that has lasted at least 10 years. If there is one football rivalry an occasional viewer might be conversant with, it is the one between AFL house and good judgment. And it would appear most of the clubs – likely the two the AFL underwrote and others to whom it regularly lends money – are complicit.
McLachlan said he was surprised by interest in the wildcard round, an idea that had a “significant level” of support.

The popularity among the AFL clubs is not so unexpected if you also consider they have a self-interest that is not unlike the parochial Japanese parents who ensured a primary school production of Snow White featured no dwarves and 25 Snow Whites. Everyone should play finals.
The proposal of a wildcard round was part of a broader 18-month discussion with the club CEOs about overhauling the current season format.
“What you’re trying to do is have more live games in the back end of the season if possible and more compelling content, but equity is the key, it’s where it started,” said McLachlan. It is a statement that is either truthful or duplicitous, depending on your definition of “equity” – and definitions haven’t been McLachlan’s strongest suit since his “tanking” stumble in 2013.
Broadcaster Channel Seven could barely mask their elation, and wasted no time in confirming that it was open to the idea of two extra “blockbuster” games. The broadcaster claimed they are in constant dialogue with the AFL about what works best for fans and viewers. God help us all if that is indeed the case.
Were you to let fans speak for themselves, they would continue to say, “leave everything the hell alone!” We are nine weeks into one of the most absorbing AFL seasons in memory, with the weekend having just delivered two remarkable comebacks.
On Saturday night, early in the second quarter, Collingwood was seven-goals-and-change behind an undermanned Hawthorn after a first term that would’ve had Lou Richards rotating anti-clockwise in his grave. But then Scott Pendlebury got going, and when he did, so did Collingwood. Everything Pendlebury does, kick, handball or clearance, feels in tune with the energies of his team. And the energy of the second half was all Collingwood’s, kicking 9.6 to 1.2. Even when the Hawks turned into the last quarter with scores level, there was little more than cautious optimism among a fan base that’s no longer “riding the bumps with a grin”.
Cautious optimism is a little harder to find among the Richmond faithful after their team found yet another way to suffer a soul-destroying loss – the third in as many weeks. This week it was a disallowed goal from Tiger debutant Shai Bolton and the resultant kick-in that led to a chain of possession that ended with a Jeremy Cameron goal and a three-point Giants lead with less than a minute to run.
For those who don’t support Richmond, watching them has become required viewing, as you know halfway through the last quarter that surge of schadenfreude will inevitably come again. The camaraderie non-Tigers get in watching Richmond find new ways to lose in the last two minutes of a game is as real as it is fun.
And fun is a good a term as any to describe football in 2017. Wins to North Melbourne and a resurgent Sydney Swans mean that as we approach the halfway mark of the season you could reasonably mount a case for 17 of the 18 teams having a say on the shaping of the final eight. If there were ever a time where floating the idea of tinkering with the finals system was idiotic, surely it is now.
It would not be a controversial opinion to say that McLachlan could do a better job if he walked into AFL House each morning for the remainder of the season and simply turned on the lights. The competition is providing more than enough “compelling content” without his help.
Arsène Wenger has described the “psychological environment” in which Arsenal have had to perform since January as “absolutely horrendous” and accepted for the first time that the lack of clarity over his personal situation had contributed to it.
Arsenal defeated Everton 3-1 on the final day of the Premier League season but, with Manchester City and Liverpool winning against Watford and Middlesbrough respectively, there was no late surge into the Champions League places.
For the first time since 1997 Wenger’s team have missed out on Europe’s elite competition and the fans inside the stadium turned on Stan Kroenke, the majority shareholder, chanting that they wanted him out of the club. It emerged on Friday night that Kroenke had turned down a £1bn takeover bid from Alisher Usmanov, who holds a 30% stake in the club and has suggested he would like to shake things up.
Wenger defended Kroenke, saying it was not his fault the squad had fallen short, but he admitted that the often toxic atmosphere around the club had been a factor in the worst league campaign of his near 21-year tenure. For the first time he has finished outside the top four places.
The fans have been divided over whether Wenger should stay on when his contract expires in the summer and there have been protests against him since the season began to unravel with the home defeat by Watford on 31 January. Wenger is expected to continue and there will be clarity after the FA Cup final against Chelsea on Saturday. The lack of it throughout the season, however, has cast long shadows.
“I believe that since January we played in a very difficult environment for different reasons,” Wenger said. “Some you know about – and it is very difficult for the group of players to cope with that – and [there are] some other reasons we will talk about another day. But the psychological environment for the group of players was absolutely horrendous.
“It has been difficult and, certainly, my personal situation has contributed to that. But I am professional and, as long as I am somewhere, I do my job until the last day. You could not question my love or my loyalty to this club because I said no to every club in the world to stay here with very restricted finances for years. So I don’t understand why [there is] the question [about] that commitment. We are professional and a part of that is to perform when the environment is not positive. We have not to look there as an excuse but I just say it’s a fact it doesn’t help.”
Wenger was asked whether he accepted the responsibility for being a cause of the negative mood. “Yes, of course.”
He did not join in the post-match lap of appreciation – he said he wanted the players to have “the quiet lap of honour they deserved” – and he was vague and evasive about the reasons for the lack of clarity over his situation. It is understood the offer of a two-year contract has been on the table for months. He was asked whether the terms had changedat any point. It has emerged, more recently, that the chief executive, Ivan Gazidis, wants to make various structural tweaks, including to scouting and coaching.
“I don’t understand what you want to hear from me but my situation will be sorted out soon,” Wenger said. “So let’s prepare for the Cup final. We won eight of our last nine games, despite the lack of clarity, so we have just to focus to win the next one. When did the lack of clarity affect the team? It’s a good question. I cannot give you the answer today. I will give you an answer one day. But not today.”
Wenger said he did not know whether Kroenke had attended against Everton. “I respect Stan Kroenke a lot. He is not at fault if we did not reach the Champions League. It is the technical department who is responsible for that.”
The schedulers have often got it wrong when it comes to building up to a grand finale at Magic Weekend. At times the sport’s annual on-the-road jamboree has ended with a whimper but here five very different portions of hors d’oeuvres set the tone for not only an enthralling main course but the team everyone in rugby league wants to see right now.
If any side have deserved the platform and backdrop St James’ Park provides for the Magic Weekend, it is Castleford. They have led the way since the start this year, have looked irrepressible for large periods of it and, perhaps most tellingly of all for a side with championship aspirations, are capable of winning in different ways.
For 40 minutes here they were pushed very hard by Leeds. That the game was level at the break was a fair indication of how things had gone up to that point, but in the second half Castleford did what they have done to so many teams this year and blew them away.
In 17 blistering minutes, Castleford ran in four tries of the highest order – three of them to the competition’s top try-scorer, Greg Eden – to increase their lead at the top of the Super League table to two points. Right now, there looks to be few who are capable of keeping up the pace with the Tigers.
Critics have scorned that nothing is won in May – which is right. But while you cannot win anything by the end of Magic Weekend you can at least display credentials of being able to last the pace and, 14 games in, Castleford are ticking all the boxes required to go all the way.
Yet while most of the attention on day two was on the finale between Castleford and Leeds, Salford continued to suggest they may have the capability to mount a quite remarkable title challenge this season after moving up to second in the table with victory in the day’s middle game. The Red Devils have perhaps had their remarkable journey from last season’s Million Pound Game to a top-four challenge in 2017 overshadowed by the exploits of Castleford, but their latest victory, against Leigh Centurions, makes them one half of the most unlikely leading duo in years.
The Centurions, who have not won for more than two months, actually led 12-6 at one stage before tries from Ben Murdoch‑Masila, Kris Welham and Greg Johnson put Salford in control at half-time.
From there they were rarely troubled – even if Ben Crooks reduced the gap to six after half-time. Further tries from Niall Evalds and a second for Johnson ensured Leigh were always at arms length: with the sending off of Adam Higson adding to Centurions’ misery.
Day two began with a whimper, given the highlights aplenty elsewhere in Newcastle over the weekend – although not that Huddersfield will care one bit. They are just two points shy of the top eight beating a Catalans side who look in increasing danger of being dragged into the Qualifiers come the Super 8s.
The Dragons led a scrappy affair 10-6 heading before tries from Sam Rapira and Adam O’Brien secured an unlikely victory. “That’s massive for us, absolutely,” the Huddersfield coach, Rick Stone, said. He was not wrong.
It all came on the back of the third-highest Magic Weekend attendance in history, with a crowd of 30,046 on the Sunday combining to make a 65,407 aggregate overall. Incidentally, the top three Magic attendances? The last three years in Newcastle. You can have too much of a good thing, but Super League surely isn’t ready to say goodbye to Newcastle just yet.
Essex took 13 wickets before tea on the third day to twice bowl Hampshire out for less than 150 and complete a remarkable victory by an innings and 92 runs. In doing so, they moved top of Division One.
Hampshire had lost five wickets for no runs on the second day, and the wreckage did not cease on the third morning with Jamie Porter, a bowler of promise who is adapting very nicely to life in Division One, dismissing Lewis McManus and Kyle Abbott to finish with five for 24.
The procession continued in the second innings, as Hampshire lost their top three by lunch, and Rilee Rossouw for a pair, lbw to Simon Harmer, who took three second-innings wickets, to the second ball after the break. After Porter sent Sean Ervine’s stumps flying to pick up his seventh of the match, George Bailey and McManus provided some resistance, but to no avail. Highly fancied, heavily bolstered Hampshire took just a single point from the match.
It has been quite a week for Kumar Sangakkara at Lord’s. On Wednesday, a painting was unveiled in his honour, on Friday he scored an immaculate century, and on Sunday he added another. His thirst not quenched, he passed 20,000 first-class runs eight runs later.
And how Surrey needed it. Sangakkara sidled to the crease after an inspired spell with the new ball from Middlesex’s Toby Roland-Jones dismissed Mark Stoneman, caught at first slip, and Rory Burns, lbw to one that came back up the slope, to leave Surrey 16 for two, and 84 behind.
That first-innings lead had been built by a fine century from Middlesex’s captain, James Franklin, and some hefty hitting from Roland-Jones, whose day served as a neat encapsulation of what he could offer England’s Test side.
Sangakkara has been playing a different game from every other batsman, however, and he chiselled – an inappropriate word given the gentle style with which it was achieved – away at the deficit, then built a lead of 96 by the close. He had wafted hard at his first ball, but was serene thereafter; neatly, he reached his second hundred in identical fashion to his first – a cover‑driven three off Ollie Rayner. As ever, housework off his pads and through point was sumptuous.
Sangakkara’s chief ally was Scott Borthwick, with whom he shared 123 until Rayner pinned him on the back pad. Roland-Jones came back into the attack late on and found a beauty to bowl Dom Sibley. Sangakkara will return with Ben Foakes on the final day, with a game to make safe.
Another wise old legend of the game, Shivnarine Chanderpaul, scored a century, the 75th of his first-class career, to steer Lancashire out of choppy waters against Yorkshire. After Jack Brooks notched a maiden ton – with a typically exuberant celebration to boot – to set up Yorkshire’s declaration at 448 for eight, Lancashire lost their first three wickets cheaply, including Haseeb Hameed for a duck, bowled by a beauty from Brooks.
In adversity Chanderpaul spotted an opportunity. He shared 112 with Ryan McLaren (63 not out) before being bowled by Ben Coad with the new ball. With four first-innings wickets in hand, including the injured James Anderson, Lancashire trail by 184.
Warwickshire have a slim shot of securing their first win of the season against Somerset, the only team below them. This is largely thanks to 175 from Jonathan Trott, which anchored a first innings of 413. They then took four Somerset wickets, with two going to the debutant Grant Thornton (who is a seamer, not a multinational accounting firm). In Warwickshire’s way stands the burly frame of Marcus Trescothick, who passed 25,000 first-class runs during his unbeaten 41.
In Division Two the leaders, Nottinghamshire, endured a frustrating day after inviting Glamorgan to follow on, as the hosts plodded their way to 212 for five, with Colin Ingram ending unbeaten on 72 from 209 balls. Notts’ closest challengers, Kent, toiled at Grace Road, closing on 193 for five after Leicestershire racked up 420 in their first innings.
Another team yet to lose, Worcestershire, had a fine day against Derbyshire. They cleaned up the Derbyshire tail to bowl them out for 275, then raced to 323 for three with both openers, Brett D’Oliveira and Daryl Mitchell, scoring centuries in a first-innings partnership of 243 in 53.4 overs. They lead by 48.
The opening day of Durham’s trip to Hove saw the precocious Sussex seamer Jofra Archer take five for 76 – including Keaton Jennings, bowled for 12 – as the visitors were dismissed out for 287. Sussex reached stumps 43 for one in reply, with Harry Finch, caught in the cordon first ball off Graham Onions, the only wicket to fall.
The sun burned, Champions League hopes evaporated and all of a sudden the lightning rod for Arsenal supporters’ disillusionment moved away from the man in the dugout and out towards the Atlantic. The chant started in the North Bank and suddenly spread, growing in urgency as it coursed round the stadium: “Stan Kroenke – get out of our club.”
The news that broke last week about Alisher Usmanov’s $1.3bn bid for the majority shareholding held by Arsenal’s American investor has broadened the conversation about the club’s status and ambitions. While the disaffected have generally pointed their fingers at Arsène Wenger the club’s direction above and beyond the manager is now under scrutiny. Kroenke is expected in England next week before the FA Cup final. The microscope is not something he welcomes but the lens will inevitably focus in. The Kroenke model across his sports franchises tends not to reach for the stars and Arsenal’s fanbase want a say about that.
The Wenger debate appears – for now at least – to have quietened. For all the huff and puff about the consequences of finally slipping out of the Champions League reckoning, in the end the mood around the Emirates was mild and accepting. There was not a hint from the home crowd there might be a final curtain any time soon for the manager who has called the shots for two decades. The impression was of a crowd expecting to see him back in situ for the Emirates Cup in July.
Wenger normally joins in the traditional lap of appreciation but this time he stayed on the sideline, watching from the edge of the pitch as his players waved and absorbed good wishes before Wembley. He thought it best to keep his distance just in case it was a bit of a distraction – and his players have had enough of that to deal with.
His downcast disposition after the match suggested that deep down he feels troubled that his proud record of consecutive Champions League qualifications is over, in terms of what it represents as a status symbol as well as the obvious lament that Thursday nights and far-flung travel are never ideal crammed into an already busy schedule. Round these parts they used mockingly to call them “Spursday nights” and now this is their domain.
Wenger said he felt sad and that it was strange to imagine life without the Champions League soundtrack. The last time Arsenal finished a league campaign without that particular prize was in 1997. Their final game was at the now-defunct Baseball Ground. The old double act of Ian Wright and Dennis Bergkamp scored the goals. As it happened, Manchester United finished champions with 75 points that season – exactly what Arsenal collected for this fifth-placed finish.
Wenger was candid in accepting responsibility. The storm clouds that accompanied the questions about his future were damaging. He said the psychological environment the squad had to deal with at the darkest moments grew “horrendous”. (Which begs the obvious question as to why he and the club were not able to sort out the contract and alleviate some of that pressure.)
Is a season outside the Champions League the end of the world? How critical is it in terms of keeping players whose contracts are winding down, like Alexis Sánchez and Mesut Özil, or attracting shiny new ones? Those conversations are on hold for another week, certainly until after the FA Cup final.
They at least head into a rendezvous with the champions, Chelsea, on the back of some decent form – in beating an Everton side halfway to the beach they picked up a seventh win in eight games. But they have their worries, especially defensively. Laurent Koscielny will curse misjudging a challenge on Enner Valencia. He clattered clumsily through the Everton forward, was sent off and the chance to lead his team out at Wembley in the FA Cup final is scuppered. Gabriel Paulista then overstretched his knee and left the pitch visibly pained.
Wenger assessed the season and came to the conclusion that he did not feel his team were so far from building a stronger Premier League challenge. But all that instability and uncertainty he referenced as harming this one still needs resolution. It is some list: the future for Wenger, Sánchez, Özil, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, the returning Jack Wilshere, Wojciech Szczesny, various members of the backroom staff, the up-in-the-air director of football role in different name, head of youth development ... It all needs sorting even without considering where they might strengthen their squad.
“Forward Arsenal” used to be an old motto of the club and the sense of drift needs addressing. The battle for a club’s soul lurks in the background. It fluttered to the foreground with the chants in Kroenke’s direction, and the sense it will not easily go away persists.
There are always twists and turns towards the end of a season but Swansea City could not have imagined the chain of events that has taken them out of the relegation zone with two matches remaining. Hull City’s surprise defeat at home against Sunderland opened a window of opportunity that Swansea took full advantage of with the most precious of victories, courtesy of yet another Fernando Llorente header.
It was Llorente’s 13th goal of the season and enough to lift Swansea one point ahead of Hull, who have now slipped into the bottom three, prompting huge celebrations among the home supporters here at the final whistle. With Hull travelling to Crystal Palace next Sunday, Swansea now have a chance to crank up the pressure on both of those clubs by picking up another three points at Sunderland the day before.
The most positive thought for Paul Clement and his players right now is that they are in control of their own destiny – a scenario that seemed unthinkable at the start of the day, with many people wondering how Swansea would respond when Hull opened up a five-point gap by beating already-relegated Sunderland.
The news that Hull had lost was greeted with jubilation by the home supporters beforehand and fuelled the raucous atmosphere inside the Liberty Stadium, helping to carry Swansea to victory. It was tense for long periods but especially in the closing stages, when Clement admitted his mind drifted back to that chastening defeat against Tottenham Hotspur, when Swansea conceded three late goals. On this occasion, however, his players refused to buckle.
Alfie Mawson was outstanding in central defence alongside the excellent Federico Fernández. The evergreen Leon Britton produced another influential performance at the base of the Swansea midfield and Jordan Ayew never stopped running up front. Yet it was Llorente who produced the game’s defining moment with his seventh headed goal of the season – more than any other Premier League player.
Ronald Koeman was left to rue that passage of play on another disappointing away day for Everton. They have failed to win in any of their last seven matches on the road and the lack of conviction in their attacking play must be a source of concern for the Everton manager.
Everton have failed to score in their last three matches and registered only five attempts on goal during that run. In fact it is hard to escape the feeling that, with little to play for between now and the end of the season, his players’ minds have already drifted to the summer.
“We know what we need to improve,” said Koeman. “Most of the things in the team are really good, [such as] the defending and organisation, but the difference between scoring goals at home and away from home is too big.”
Koeman tried to change things against Swansea by starting with Ross Barkley on the bench but Everton looked flat in the first half. Barkley was introduced at the restart and, although Everton had much more possession in the second half, the visitors created little of note.
Swansea actually looked more likely to score again. Ayew struck the outside of the post with a volley, Mawson’s header was blocked by Barkley – the Everton midfielder knew little about it – and Leroy Fer was desperately unlucky not to score when he met Tom Carroll’s fine cross with a first-time shot that Maarten Stekelenburg saved at point-blank range.
Llorente had not been so forgiving in the 29th minute. Ayew was the architect, the forward twisting and turning close to the byline to get away from Gareth Barry before delivering an inch-perfect cross that implored Llorente to nod home. Towering above Phil Jagielka, the Spaniard squeezed his header past Maarten Stekelenburg and the stadium erupted.
Belief coursed through Swansea for a period as they began to attack with more purpose. Everton looked a little disjointed and Swansea should have added a second four minutes later. Gylfi Sigurdsson, who had a penalty appeal turned down moments before Llorente’s breakthrough goal, delivered a cross from wide on the right that evaded a clutch of players and ran through to Mawson, on the edge of the six-yard box. Mawson seemed certain to score but Mason Holgate, Everton’s right-back, got across to make a superb block.
It was Swansea’s turn to throw bodies in front of the ball in the second half, prompting Clement to praise his players for a “magnificent collective effort defensively to get the right result”. With more of the same in the last two matches Swansea will be safe.
Wasps used to win the Premiership play-offs despite not finishing top, but three tries in the final quarter kept them at the head of the table at the end of the regular season to set up a semi-final with Leicester, who finished a distant fourth, rather than a return bout with Saracens. Thomas Young scored three tries but it was the home side’s two major close-season signings, Kurtley Beale and Willie le Roux, who had the means to puncture the meanest of defences.
Saracens rested five of their six Lions, along with their captain Brad Barritt, wing Chris Ashton and scrum-half Richard Wigglesworth before Saturday’s European Champions Cup final against Clermont Auvergne, but they had shown below-strength did not equal weak against Northampton three weeks ago and they had won nine of their 10 previous Premiership matches against Wasps, who fielded their strongest available side.
The kick-off was delayed for 15 minutes because many in the 30,000-plus crowd had left their arrival late. It meant the fixtures on the final round were no longer synchronised and that Exeter, the other side in contention to finish at the top of the table, would be having a shower when the game here ended.
The most prolific attack in the league was pitted against the tightest defence and the opening two minutes offered a snapshot of the season: Wasps took play through 15 phases and made ground when Jake Cooper-Woolley took Jim Hamilton for a long ride and Beale, a player with the deceit to pick any lock, angled his run into the midfield to reach the Saracens 22, but if a door opened it was only momentarily.
Alex Lozowski stopped the rather larger Nathan Hughes head-on without conceding a centimetre, Schalk Burger upended Danny Cipriani and when James Haskell was held up, Joe Simpson’s knock-on ended the early siege. Wasps, who had led the table for most of the year but had started to show signs of wear, were playing with a zest and purpose that could not have been more pronounced had they spent the week listening to someone calling them soft showboaters.
Saracens were the last team to defeat Wasps here, in December 2015, and beating them involves taking opportunities, which are rarely plentiful. The champions absorbed pressure, waiting to counterattack. Young saved Wasps when he tackled Marcelo Bosch and forced the centre to hold on and concede a penalty, but after Jimmy Gopperth had put the leaders ahead with a 35-metre penalty, awarded after Titi Lamositele had collapsed a scrum, the first try of the match followed the restart.
Wasps sloppily conceded a lineout in their 22 and when Saracens set up a ruck Ben Spencer spotted that instead of guarding a ruck Tommy Taylor was on the ground clutching his left ankle and ran through the gap to touch down under the posts. Wasps were in front again within two minutes: Danny Cipriani, restored to the side after three weeks on the bench, replicated New Zealand 10s in Super Rugby, whose antidote to a rush defence is a dinked kick into space. All Young had to do was pick up the ball to score.
Where Wasps attacked from all over, prompted by the elusive Beale, Saracens waited for the moment. They regained the lead on 31 minutes when Bosch kicked a penalty from halfway after Haskell had been lured offside by Spencer, but the half then turned.
Christian Wade’s kick to the line went straight out of play, but not before the Saracens wing Sean Maitland body-checked his opponent and earned a yellow card. Gopperth kicked the penalty and Wasps exploited their man advantage just before the interval when Le Roux, after he had hustled Spencer into conceding a scrum five, created Young’s second try with a long pass.
It was Wasps’ 86th of the Premiership campaign, a tournament record, and they led 16-10 at the break having lost two of their front row to injury. They needed a cushion and after Ashley Johnson, Taylor’s replacement, made various dents in the defence, Le Roux created space on the left and Elliot Daly would probably have scored had not Gopperth run across him.
Gopperth’s kicking from the tee was unusually inaccurate. He missed a penalty from 40 metres as the game – with Exeter securing a bonus point at Gloucester to go top – became more nervy. Wasps stared to play for position as the match threatened to come down to who would enjoy home advantage when the sides met in the play-off semi-final.
Wasps needed two tries to remain at the top of the table. Beale created their first, his chip to the line half-secured by Le Roux. The ball fell loose and all Wade had to do was touch it down for a record-equalling 17th try of the league campaign.
But Wasps needed another after Spencer’s second try checked their momentum to set a date with Leicester rather than welcome back Saracens – and it arrived when Joe Launchbury stole a lineout from one of the second-rows chosen ahead of him by the Lions, George Kruis, and Le Roux freed Daly who accelerated away from Jamie George before Young’s hat-trick completed an ultimately comfortable victory.
Wasps Beale; Wade, Daly, Gopperth, Le Roux (Bassett 71); Cipriani, Simpson (Robson 54); Mullan (McIntyre 64), Taylor (Johnson 18), Cooper-Woolley (Swainston 23), Launchbury (capt), Symons (Myall 69), Haskell (Thompson 64), Young, Hughes
Tries Young 3, Wade, Daly Cons Gopperth 2 Pens Gopperth 2
Saracens Wyles; Ellery (Earle 53), Bosch, Tompkins (Goode 57), Maitland (Taylor 68); Lozowski, Spencer; Lamositele (Barrington 50), Brits (capt; George 50), Koch (du Plessis 42), Hamilton (Isiekwe 60), Kruis, Rhodes, Wray, Burger (Brown 71)
Tries Spencer 2 Con Lozowski Pen Bosch
Sin-bin Maitland 33
Attendance 30,115 Referee Wayne Barnes
Match rating 8
A remarkable defensive shift led by the indefatigable Joe Marler ensured Harlequins hung on for the all-important losing bonus point to clinch a place in the European Champions Cup for the first time in three years and condemn Northampton to their worst finish since 2009.
Northampton sealed victory thanks to a try from the replacement lock Api Ratuniyarawa but their failure to either score a fourth or beat Harlequins by more than seven points means it is John Kingston’s side who finish sixth. Northampton may yet join them at Europe’s top table, having finished the season in seventh, but if Gloucester win the Challenge Cup they will take the Premiership’s play-off place.
Northampton have had a recent habit of losing matches late on and while this goes down as a victory in the ledger, again they could not maintain enough composure when it mattered. Having finished outside the top four the first time since in seven years last season, this campaign has been a further step backwards. To compound matters, Tom Wood hobbled off with a back injury that may yet rule him out of any play-off matches and England’s summer tour to Argentina.
“It has been a disappointing season,” said Northampton’s director of rugby, Jim Mallinder. “We set our standards high at the club, we want to be finishing in the top four and fighting for play-off places and this year it hasn’t happened but we have a squad that can do that and I’m optimistic about next season.”
When Wood went off after 15 minutes, Northampton were already 10-0 down – Harlequins picking up from where they left off against Wasps with a close-range try through the captain, James Horwill, converted by Nick Evans on his final appearance for the club.
An Evans penalty extended Harlequins’ lead but a delightful piece of skill from Harry Mallinder put in George North, temporarily playing at centre, under the posts. Mallinder converted and Northampton were ahead when Alex Waller plunged over after a rumble and offload from Louis Picamoles. Mallinder again converted.
Joe Marchant then finished off his second try in two matches after a break from Mike Brown, with Evans nailing the conversion to give Harlequins a three-point lead, but Mallinder was on target again from the tee to make it 17-17 at half-time of a helter-skelter contest.
Marler was getting the better of Kieran Brookes at the scrum and after Teimana Harrison conceded a penalty at the breakdown, Evans put Harlequins back ahead before the New Zealander went off with a shoulder injury. Harlequins’ Charlie Matthews was shown a yellow card for a deliberate knock-on before a forward pass from the otherwise excellent Luther Burrell denied Nafi Tuitavake a try in the right corner.
But Northampton had the lead when Ratuniyarawa burrowed over after Picamoles had gone close. Mallinder struck the upright with the simplest of conversions and while another try for Northampton would have taken them above Harlequins and into sixth place it did not materialise.
“We made a lot of changes and adjustments this season but I’m delighted we’ve got something of substance at the end of the year,” said Kingston. “It’s not a trophy, but it’s something that’s not been at the club for three years and it gives us something to go forward with.”
A 13th semi-final in a row for Leicester, still evidently at or near the top of the English game, but they march resolutely into the play-offs these days, rather than romp with the confidence of yore. This was another win when they needed it, which they chiselled out in prosaic style, albeit that winning here is becoming an increasingly difficult assignment.
It will not go unnoticed that Worcester outscored them three tries to one. If they are still near the top of the English game, that peak is an ever more distant view. Had Freddie Burns not had his kicking boots on Leicester would have lost. Burns is now finding some real form, just as he prepares to leave for Bath. Twenty-three points from his boot saw the Tigers home, while Ryan Mills, who hardly kicked poorly, missed seven points’ worth.
After they try to digest the sad news about Ben Youngs pulling out of the Lions squad due to family illness, Leicester travel to Coventry in a fortnight to take on Wasps. Their home record is starting to look as formidable as the ones that used to be compiled at Welford Road. And that try-scoring rate should be of concern to the Tigers.
Yet the play-offs are a funny business. “There’s a belief that we can put on a performance that will put us really close to winning at Wasps,” said Matt O’Connor, Leicester’s head coach. “If you do that you’re a game away from the title. There are certain parts of our game that are as good as anything in the league. And there are certain that haven’t been.”
One of the former is, as ever, the set piece. Graft Worcester’s backs on to Leicester’s forwards and this would have been ugly. The disparity between the two front fives was wide and so Worcester could not cause as many problems as they clearly will with a better set piece.
Which is a shame, because, nothing to play for or not, they certainly played. On three occasions in the first half they had Leicester on the ropes, only to spill the ball as the heat turned up or fail to move it quickly enough. But on one other they did score – and a beauty it was, Ben Te’o putting Wynand Olivier through for the first cut, before Bryce Heem fed Chris Pennell, who went inside to the line.
It was a timely try, on the half-hour, because Leicester had just stretched their lead to 10 points. Their front row were much the more experienced, despite young Ellis Genge’s presence, and the scrum was a penalty machine for them. But they opened the try-scoring with a driven lineout that looked far too easy, finished by Tom Youngs in the corner. It helped Leicester to a three-point lead at the break, Burns immaculate from the tee, his third penalty, by which they held the lead, courtesy of another overpowered Worcester scrum.
The Warriors, though, did briefly take the lead three minutes into the second half, again profiting from the superiority of their three-quarters. Of some superb signings for their back division, Heem must rank as one of the smartest. The Kiwi wing was quickly on to a spilt high ball and after a vigorous duel with Adam Thompstone on the wide outside, handing off his opposite man twice, he made it to the corner.
So Leicester tightened the screw, dominating territory for much of the next 25 minutes, during which Burns added four more successful kicks, the first a sweet drop goal six minutes later to retake the lead.
Worcester nevertheless fashioned further chances. Heem’s inside ball was spilled by Alafoti Fa’osiliva with the line at his mercy, but the Warriors back division pulled Leicester out of shape again, Heem once more involved, so that Ryan Lamb could send Olivier away to the line. Mills could not convert from the touchline and Burns’s sixth penalty kept Leicester five ahead as we entered the endgame.
It was enough for them, but then so would defeat have been as it turns out. Within reach it may still be, but that pinnacle of the English game feels a way off yet.
No trophies are dished out on the regular season’s final day but Exeter’s hunger for victory remains insatiable. Whether the Chiefs ultimately win the title or not, they will keep on entertaining people right to the end and no team in the country currently has greater statistical momentum. They will now entertain Saracens in a semi-final at Sandy Park chasing a totally different outcome from last year’s Twickenham final.
Given Saracens have to squeeze in a European Champions’ Cup final next weekend, it would be wise not to count the Chiefs out prematurely. Rob Baxter’s side have been mastering the champions’ trick of winning when not entirely at their best or depleted by injuries and have not lost to anyone in the league since October.
While Baxter acknowledges the scale of the next challenge – “Everyone knows how good Saracens are; we could potentially be playing the best team in Europe” – his squad long ago ceased to be overawed by anyone.
Baxter also felt it made no difference that the kick-off at the Ricoh Arena was delayed, giving Wasps the advantage of knowing precisely what they needed to do to top the table.
In the final analysis this was still another joyous trip into Devonian dreamland: a maximum bonus point win for a record eighth match in succession which secured a home semi-final even in the absence of Dave Ewers, Henry Slade and Thomas Waldrom. These hard-working, relentless Chiefs are anything but a bunch of fly-by-night chancers.
The crucial 69th-minute try scored by the replacement scrum-half Will Chudley, for instance, was the 86th try Exeter have scored in this most prolific of seasons. A dominant Saracens finished top of the table with 80 points last year, six points clear of the field, and scored 60 tries and 580 points. Exeter have exceeded every single one of those marks this time, some achievement given their sluggish start to the campaign.
If they rode their luck on occasions during a madcap game of oval-shaped pinball, there can be no disputing the ceaseless endeavour and collective pride that extracts them from trouble on a weekly basis. Gloucester defended hard and ran harder on occasions; the Chiefs, 15-6 down in the first half, soaked it all up and repeatedly hit their hosts on the counter, growing ever stronger and more confident the longer the game went on.
Gloucester’s season, from start to finish, has been a litany of what-ifs: the team that beat France’s top team, La Rochelle, away from home to reach next Friday’s European Challenge Cup final and looked irresistible for the opening hour of their first league game against Leicester in September have not displayed their true colours often enough.
They started like greyhounds again here, contributing fully to a blistering first quarter and stretching the Chiefs defence enough out wide to create a final early try for the flanker Lewis Ludlam.
When the lurking Jonny May picked off Gareth Steenson’s pass and cruised 65 metres to score at the other end, the Chiefs had no option but to dig deep again. This was the sixth game in a row in which Exeter have conceded an interception try, the price to be paid for their constant gainline positivity, yet they have still won on each occasion.
It did help that the Cherry and White defence, impressive for lengthy periods, slackened momentarily to allow Ian Whitten to carve straight through some softish defence to score under the posts and reduce the interval deficit to 15-13. If anything the game’s pace then cranked up another notch, with both sides determined to end the regular campaign in style.
Had there not been a knock-on in the build-up, May would have been a contender for finish of the season as he soared up and over his England team-mate Jack Nowell, only for the Chiefs to work their way back upfield for the replacement Sam Simmonds to put the prop Ben Moon over by the left corner flag. James Short and Chudley duly secured the bonus point, cancelling out May’s second score at the other end. The last quarter, as so often in recent months, was a case of the Chiefs once again showing their opponents who is boss.
Pep Guardiola paid tribute to his captain, Vincent Kompany, after Manchester City’s biggest league win of the season, not for completing a fifth successive game but for popping up with an important goal at the start of the second half of the 5-0 win against Crystal Palace.
“We don’t score enough goals,” the City manager said. “The numbers don’t lie, we have not been good enough in the boxes this season. If we had been only one goal in front with 20 minutes to go in this game we would not have won, so I said to the players at half-time either score a goal or forget about it. Going ahead in the first minutes of the game helped us a lot but we still needed a second and Vincent scored an amazing goal. After that we were able to play without pressure.”
By the end of the match Kompany’s centre-back partner, Nicolás Otamendi, had joined him on the scoresheet as City shared the goals around, something they have not been doing enough this season for Guardiola’s liking. But he did make the claim that City are the Premier League’s best side at creating chances.
“Apart from one game, at White Hart Lane, I cannot remember a match where we did not create more chances than the other side,” Guardiola claimed. “The others, no chance. So we are better than all the teams in the Premier League, home and away.
“Even the next champions, Chelsea, we create more chances here [at the Etihad Stadium] than even at Stamford Bridge, but in the boxes we are not good. We are the best in the league at doing that, we create more chances than anyone, but we are not always able to score the goals. In basketball you see Michael Jordan, last minute ... puts it in the net.
“Vincent helped us with his presence in the box and the win was important because we play for the future of the club. The most difficult thing in football, basketball, tennis, in all the sports is to do it in the last moment. That’s why we are in the situation we are in.
“The Premier League is tough, four big teams fighting for two places. Hopefully United can focus on the Europa League and we can have five English teams in the Champions League next season. That would be amazing.”
Sam Allardyce knows all about how tough the Premier League is. After felling Arsenal, Chelsea and Liverpool last month, three straight defeats have brought Palace back into the relegation equation. “We don’t want to be asking for anyone’s help,” Allardyce said. “We need a result against Hull next week and we need to get back to keeping clean sheets. It is our last home game of the season and I want to see ‘Hull City nil’.”
Lord’s has long been a source of inspiration for touring sides over the years but Ireland’s cricketers must draw on more than just the history and prestige of a first encounter with England at the famous old ground if they are to avoid a repeat of their Bristol battering.
A targeted marketing push by the MCC is expected to see a strong green tinge among a crowd of 24,000 in St John’s Wood, but for all this additional support the prospects of a better showing by William Porterfield’s side will come down to whether, in the space of 48 hours and one training session on the Nursery Ground, their batsmen can work out a new strategy to counter England’s attack and Adil Rashid’s variations in particular.
Beyond the googly-induced befuddlement witnessed during the Yorkshireman’s five for 27 is the additional pressure of Ireland’s impending leap to Test status. To judge their credentials on one limp demise to 126 all out would be unduly harsh, not least since their expected elevation next month is as much about allowing them to lay long-term foundations through the additional funding this would bring.
Nevertheless, a second collapse would give further ammunition to those who believe the timing is not right (and seem happy to ignore the 26 years and 45 matches it took New Zealand to register a first Test win in 1956).
Lord’s, which had its newly built Warner Stand officially opened by Prince Philip before his retirement on 96 next month, provides some familiarity for a number of Ireland’s squad, with Porterfield a graduate from the MCC staff, Paul Stirling and Tim Murtagh both Middlesex players and Ed Joyce, Andy Balbirnie and George Dockrell all previously on the county’s books. A switch to the away dressing room aside, there are happy memories in NW8 between them on which to draw.
Eoin Morgan, the England captain, cited the Lord’s factor as being equally emboldening for his players and, with four games remaining until the Champions Trophy begins against Bangladesh at The Oval on 1 June, he may secretly be hoping for a stiffer workout than witnessed in Friday’s seven-wicket win.
He has, however, told his players to go into the second fixture of a sardine-tin summer schedule determined to be as clinical. “If we just turn up and think we are going to roll them over, it’s not going to happen,” said the fast bowler, Mark Wood. “We’ve got to go in with the same attacking mindset.”
Had Ireland batted their full 50 overs in Bristol and not the sorry 33 they managed, England might have considered resting Wood for the follow-up fixture, mindful that these are early days in his return from the ankle operation that wiped out his entire winter. But they can instead give their prized pace asset another run out following an encouraging six overs when he touched 90mph on the speed gun and castled Stirling as the opener looked to manufacture some room and crash a sixth four through the off-side.
“It was special,” said Wood, on picking up his first international victim since September. “I thought the dream was gone at times – I was a little bit unsure if I would ever get back to the standard I wanted to set and the pace I wanted to bowl at. I was very nervous in my first over and had to tell myself [to] relax. Then, after that, I was into the game and I’m absolutely delighted to be back.”
Wood is cautiously optimistic the worst of his troubles are now behind him, having worked with England’s sports psychologist, Mark Bawden, to focus thoughts towards performance rather than looking for pain in his ankle – phantom or genuine. He is now bowling in boots that have been designed by his sponsors New Balance, in conjunction with physio Ben Langley, that help counter the rocking of his left heel upon impact at the crease.
“I wouldn’t say it’s honestly ever going to be totally pain free,” the 27-year-old said. “With the trouble I’ve had – three operations and the way that I bowl – it’s just going to flare up from time to time. Hopefully, that’s the end of the major pain. I haven’t got any bones left in there that are sticking out or anything like that. I’m held together with Sellotape and a bit of tape pretty well. I’m pretty confident now I could get through any sort of international cricket be it Test, one-day or Twenty20.”
If Wood’s point of difference means he is inked into England’s first-choice side, then Lord’s represents a final chance for those in pencil to stake a claim before the three-match series with South Africa that acts as the final run up into the summer’s main event. Jonny Bairstow and Sam Billings may struggle to crack a settled batting line-up even with big scores here, while David Willey, Jake Ball and Liam Plunkett know at least two of their number will make way when Chris Woakes and Ben Stokes return from the Indian Premier League. Moeen Ali, who missed out on Friday for tactical reasons, may well make it all three.
England have announced that Morgan and Billings, whose maiden one-day outing behind the stumps in Bristol featured one flying catch to his right, will return to their respective IPL franchises, Kings XI Punjab and Delhi Daredevils, on Monday for six more days of T20 cricket before the squad’s training camp in Spain from 15 May.
Patrick Roberts reiterated his desire to play for Celtic with two goals in Celtic’s commanding 4-1 Premiership home victory over St Johnstone. The 20-year-old winger, on loan from Manchester City, had confirmed on Friday that he wanted to stay at Parkhead until after the Scottish Cup final against Aberdeen, forgoing the opportunity to go with England Under-20s to the World Cup in South Korea.
After a goalless first half the goals rained in at the start of the second period with Roberts and the defender Dedryck Boyata scoring either side of a Steven MacLean leveller.
Roberts grabbed a third and the substitute Callum McGregor, on for Tom Rogic, added a fourth for the treble-chasing home team, as Brendan Rodgers’ side extended their unbeaten domestic run since the start of this season to 43 games - 35 in the league.
Rodgers, as expected, freshened up his side after last week’s derby win against Rangers by looking to the club’s development squad. Michael Johnston and Anthony Ralston, both 18, were included, the former making his debut and the latter enjoying his first start having made two substitute appearances for the first team. Ralston replaced Mikael Lustig at right-back and Johnston took over from the attacker Scott Sinclair as midfielders Nir Bitton and Rogic returned, with McGregor and the suspended Scott Brown dropping out.
St Johnstone’s captain, Steven Anderson, was making his 400th appearance for the fourth-placed visitors, who survived a scare in the first minute when Zander Clark made a smart save from Rogic’s left-footed drive from distance.
Celtic slowly tightened their grip on the game and Clark beat away further efforts from Johnston and Rogic, with the impressive Australian then lifting a right-footed shot over the bar. The left-back Kieran Tierney drilled a 20-yard shot past the far post in the 35th minute as Celtic’s domination continued, although just before the break the St Johnstone midfielder Blair Alston blazed a drive over the bar from only eight yards after MacLean had teed him up with a cushioned header.
The Perth side were made to pay for that miss two minutes into the second half when Roberts, after taking a Johnston pass, almost casually curled a shot from 25 yards into the far corner of the net. However, Saints equalised two minutes later when MacLean forced the ball in, after the Celtic goalkeeper Craig Gordon had made a great save from Graham Cummins’ close-range header following a Richard Foster cross.
But back came Celtic again and Boyata rose to head in a Leigh Griffiths corner from the left to restore Celtic’s lead. It was Griffiths who was instrumental in Celtic extending their advantage when his left-footed drive was parried by Clark, only for the alert Sinclair to turn the ball back for Roberts to stab it over the line from a yard out.
St Johnstone kept plugging away but McGregor had only just replaced Rogic when he slalomed into St Johnstone’s box to fire in a fourth with his third goal in three weeks. Celtic threatened to stretch their lead further, with Roberts deserving his standing ovation when he was replaced by James Forrest eight minutes from time.
Rodgers told BBC Scotland of his satisfaction with the display. “It was a really exciting performance for the supporters and a joy to watch the team play to that level. We scored four goals and maybe could have finished with six or seven if we had been more clinical.”
Off the field the Scottish FA responded to Celtic’s complaint over the seating allocation for the Scottish Cup final against Aberdeen, saying: “The allocation of tickets has been handled in full consultation with both participating clubs and the available seating at Hampden Park will be split on a 50-50 basis, as has been standard practice in previous cup finals where a sell-out crowd is anticipated.”
A controversial own goal from Ryan Shawcross denied Stoke a first away win since January and handed Bournemouth the point that seals their top-flight status for another year.
Shawcross unwittingly deflected Josh King’s strike into his own net but Stoke were frustrated that the Bournemouth striker had not been flagged offside from Max Gradel’s header. The goal stood and the visitors were forced to settle for just their second point on the road since their 3-1 league win at Sunderland on 14 January.
Stoke ended their 10-hour away-goal drought in the first half thanks to Lys Mousset’s own goal and an ungainly finish from Mame Biram Diouf. Bournemouth hit back through Junior Stanislas before Shawcross’s own goal ensured the two midtable sides shared the spoils.
When Stoke did finally score an away goal it was not courtesy of one of their players. Instead, the Bournemouth forward Mousset put through his own net, unwittingly placing a backwards header past his goalkeeper, Artur Boruc, following Marko Arnautovic’s corner.
The home side were unlucky to fall behind, especially after Adam Smith’s fine early effort concluded the best move of the first half, the full-back blasting against the post from 18 yards after a superb reverse flick from Stanislas.
Harry Arter was also fortunate to escape a red card for a two-footed lunge on Joe Allen, that he made contact with the ball perhaps just enough to keep him on the field.
Arnautovic then underscored Stoke’s tribulations in front of goal by heading over from four yards when unmarked, having been picked out by Allen’s neat cross.
Bournemouth seized on the reprieve, Stanislas sliding home after Smith’s low cutback and King’s canny step-over. But just as the Cherries could sight victory, up popped Diouf with a finish as ugly as it was welcome to the visitors.
Arnautovic unsettled Francis when challenging for Geoff Cameron’s cross, allowing Diouf to latch on to the loose ball for his first league goal in 12 months. The Senegal striker eventually hooked the ball home, but the way his finish bobbled in will have left Boruc kicking himself.
The game’s second own goal then had the hosts level again with Shawcross powerless to prevent himself deflecting King’s effort past Jack Butland. Smith again played a pivotal role, his cross allowing Gradel to head into King’s path despite the fact that the Norway striker appeared to have strayed offside.
“Arter’s very lucky to stay on the field,” said Mark Hughes. “It was a poor challenge and should have been penalised with a red card. And Gradel did kick out [at Shawcross], so he’s fortunate that the fourth official didn’t see it.
“[King] got fortunate with the offside, and his initial touch has taken it away from goal. So there’s a few moments there where we feel aggrieved. I thought we were the better team.”
Eddie Howe was convinced Arter’s challenge was legitimate. “That’s how Harry plays, he’s right on the edge, very competitive, very honest,” he said. “I think he’s got the ball clean.
“I’m immensely proud of the players and for the people of Bournemouth. We’re competing against the best club teams in the world, to be competitive is incredibly difficult so I have to pay full respect to our players and staff for making us achieve our Premier League status again.”
David Moyes was recently asked if he felt “shown up” by Marco Silva’s impressive stewardship of Hull City. Sunderland’s manager gave a bland answer, yet the flintiness in his eyes suggested he was inwardly seething and particularly keen to end his east Yorkshire counterpart’s proud record of having not lost a home league game in Portugal, Greece and England since March 2014.
Thanks to an amalgam of Jordan Pickford’s heroics in goal and Hull’s failure to cope with the pressure of suddenly being expected to be the team in control, Moyes not only shattered Silva’s record but significantly increased the prospect of Hull joining Sunderland down in the Championship next season.
With awkward fixtures at Crystal Palace and at home to Tottenham Hotspur ahead, hope is suddenly an unexpectedly dwindling resource by the Humber, especially after Swansea’s win against Everton.
“Losing today is not good for us,” said Silva, who thought Hull merited at least one penalty. “I knew beforehand it wasn’t an easy game and Sunderland came here to prove something. I believe if we’d scored first we would have won but we didn’t play well. Our team played with big tension behind us. It’s not a good moment for us but it’s a moment to be calm. Today we weren’t calm, we tried to do everything too fast. If you don’t play calm, it’s impossible to play well.”
David Moyes, whose Wearside future remains uncertain, was somewhat brighter-eyed: “I definitely wish this had happened a few weeks ago but we’ve been playing well and the win was coming,” he said. “The players showed pride in their performance.”
George Honeyman should really have given Sunderland an early lead but the young midfielder – decent throughout – headed wide after connecting with Billy Jones’s inviting cross after Jermain Defoe’s decoy run had distracted Hull’s defence.
Cheered on by their convalescent midfielder Ryan Mason – back at the KCom for the first time since fracturing his skull at Chelsea in January – Silva’s side made an ominously shaky start.
Accustomed to sitting back at home before hurting visitors on the counter-attack, they were now supposed to be dominant but did not seem to have entirely got the hang of it. Almost imperceptibly such uncertainty spread to an initially noisy home crowd, prompting chants of “Is this a library?” from Sunderland’s large, vocal and surprisingly cheerful, travelling support.
Not for the first time this season Sam Clucas did more than any other Hull player, bar the menacing Kamil Grosicki, to recalibrate the mood. Invariably integral to his team’s better manoeuvres, Clucas proved the conduit through with much of their play flowed. Fittingly his low volley stretched Pickford to the absolute limit in the wake of Grosicki’s sashay past Billy Jones and clever cross.
With Harry Maguire subsequently shooting inches wide and Pablo Hernández changing pace before surging beyond Javier Manquillo and bending a left-foot shot past the far post, Silva’s side improved but never looked exactly secure at the back.
Clucas needed to watch his step after collecting a booking for fouling Didier Ndong but he retained sufficient cool to whisk the ball off Defoe’s toecaps as the England striker threatened to end his recent goal drought.
Eldin Jakupovic, whose late penalty save the previous weekend earned Hull the point at Southampton that sent Sunderland down, did similarly well to repel Defoe’s shot at the end of a rapid Sunderland break while Pickford’s intervention just prevented Alfred N’Diaye heading Grosicki’s cross beyond him.
Pickford’s wonderful reflexes and brilliant footwork are coveted by a host of leading clubs and he emphasised his ability with a fabulous fingertip save which somehow steered Lazar Markovic’s header to safety after the Liverpool loanee met Ahmed Elmohamady’s pinpoint cross. “If Jordan leaves us this summer, it will be for a big price,” said Moyes. “A really, really big price.”
As John O’Shea’s sliding interception forced Hernández into shooting wide, Hull fans grew despondent. The previously real prospect of a bright Premier League future was dimming with every passing minute with the lights very nearly going out completely when Jones stunned both sets of supporters by giving Sunderland the lead. Demonstrating he remains useful at both ends, O’Shea flicked on Honeyman’s corner, enabling Jones to power a diving, six-yard header in off a post.
If Grosicki’s uncomfortable relocation from left to right following an injury to Markovic suited Sunderland, Moyes still required Pickford to preserve his side’s lead. A particularly outstanding one-handed save to deny Hernández probably pushed his value up at least a couple of million.
By now alternately disconsolate and frantic, Silva replaced a midfielder with a striker, swapping N’Diaye with Dieumerci Mbokani but, for once, his customary boldness rebounded as Defoe scored a late, arguably offside, close-range, second for Sunderland.
“My home record isn’t important,” said Hull’s manager. “But the result is.”
Sam Vokes’s second-half double denied West Brom a first away victory of 2017 and earned Burnley a draw that all but confirmed their Premier League survival.
After a forgettable first half, Vokes’s 56th-minute opener ignited proceedings with the visitors scoring twice in 12 minutes through Salomón Rondón and Craig Dawson having previously gone nearly nine hours without a goal.
A first victory on their travels since New Year’s Eve eluded West Brom as Vokes capitalised on Ben Foster’s poor decision to come out for a free-kick, the striker levelling with four minutes remaining to take Burnley to 40 points.
Injuries to Ben Mee and Michael Keane meant that Burnley had to deploy an inexperienced centre-back pairing of James Tarkowski and Kevin Long, but the pair were scarcely tested in the opening half as the home team registered the only two opportunities of note.
George Boyd created the first with a left-wing cross that was met by a near-post Vokes volley that deflected off Gareth McAuley and was kept out by Foster’s leg.
Boyd was involved in the move for the other chance as were Vokes and Ashley Barnes, the latter feeding Scott Arfield, who bore down on goal before seeing his shot stopped by James McClean’s terrific sliding intervention.
Burnley had an even better opportunity early in the second period as the unmarked Tarkowski met Arfield’s corner only for his bullet header to clear the crossbar.
Tony Pulis withdrew Jonny Evans shortly after, possibly due to a first-half foot injury, and five minutes later Burnley went ahead.
Jake Livermore was hanging on to Barnes’s back as the two entered the box and tumbled down and the assistant flagged for a penalty. Mike Jones, the referee, allowed play to continue and Barnes had the foresight to cross for Vokes to sweep a first-time finish beyond Foster.
The official deserved credit for hanging fire when it came to the awarding of any decision while Barnes’s vision to get off the turf and swing a cross in was also admirable.
The visiting side had offered little attacking threat as they edged towards the nine-hour mark without a goal, but all that changed 10 minutes after Vokes’s opener as Dawson reached Chris Brunt’s corner and the ball looped on to the crossbar.
West Brom eventually reworked the ball out to the left flank where Matt Lowton was caught out by McClean and neither Long nor Tarkowski could prevent his cross reaching Rondón, who fired in his first goal since December.
Tarkowski tried to redeem himself with a stinging volley that he fired into Marc Wilson’s arm but he was caught out 12 minutes from time.
The visitors earned a corner when Livermore’s effort was deflected over and from Brunt’s delivery, Dawson lost Tarkowski, heading against Barnes’s chest, with the ball then going in off the post for West Brom’s 15th set-piece goal of the season.
It was another dead-ball situation that helped Burnley claim a share of the spoils. Foster rushed out to try and collect substitute Robbie Brady’s chipped free-kick but was unable to reach it before Vokes, who flicked a header past him to make it 2-2.
Asked about the scale of Burnley’s achievement in staying up, Sean Dyche said: “It’s very difficult at the top level of football without major finance. It’s more about wages. There are teams who get players on frees who are paying astronomical wages.
“We are good on both and that’s because we have to be. It’s the way this club has to work. I manage what I am given. I take great pride in that we all see beyond that and we got on with it.”
Two colts from Frankel’s first crop lined up for the 2,000 Guineas here on Saturday but the great champion’s own father, Galileo, showed that, when it comes to siring Classic winners, he is still the daddy. Churchill, last year’s champion two-year-old and the 6-4 favourite, found a clear path to the line against the stands rail to take the Guineas by a length from Barney Roy and establish a clear record for Aidan O’Brien, his trainer, as the most successful trainer in the race’s history.
This was O’Brien’s eighth victory in the 2,000 Guineas, one more than the total recorded by John Scott between 1842 and 1862 and double the career total of his namesake Vincent, his predecessor at Ballydoyle in Co Tipperary. In the end it was a comfortable and well-executed success, as Lancaster Bomber, a stable companion of the winner, set a very steady pace through the early part of the race, which allowed Ryan Moore, on Churchill, to choose his moment to attack along the near side despite having been drawn in one of the wider stalls.
The race did not unfold as favourably for Barney Roy, the second favourite, who was forced to challenge between horses on the way to second place, while André Fabre’s Al Wukair stayed on well for Grégory Benoist in the closing stages to finish third and ensure that the first three horses in the market filled the frame in betting order.
Both placed horses might have benefited from a stronger gallop but Churchill was a ready winner on the day and now has options including the Derby at Epsom over a mile and a half on 3 June or a possible rematch with Barney Roy in the St James’s Palace Stakes at Royal Ascot on 20 June.
“When he gets there, he doesn’t do much and he was like that last season,” O’Brien said. “We were a bit nervous coming here with him, he is a big horse and it was his first run this year but everyone was very happy with him at home and that gave us confidence. He [Moore] had said going out that if the pace wasn’t quick he was going to be handy and I think it went as he thought it was going to happen.
“The lads [the Coolmore Stud syndicate] make all the plans, they’ll see how he is after a week or 10 days and make a plan where they want to go with him next. He has a lot of options, distance is usually not a problem to a Galileo. You’d say he definitely get a mile and a quarter well, obviously a mile and a half you’re never sure but he can go a lot of roads.”
Churchill was quoted at around 6-1 for the Derby before Saturday’s race and can still be backed at the same price with Paddy Power, although several bookmakers have cut his odds for Epsom to around 7-2. He is top-priced at 6-4 for the St James’s Palace Stakes should “the lads” opt to stay at a mile, with Barney Roy available at 7-1 with Stan James to reverse the form at Ascot.
Al Wukair, who is an 8-1 chance, is also a probable runner in the St James’s Palace. “André and Grégory were just frustrated that the pace was so slow and we had to come out wide,” Harry Herbert, the racing manager for the colt’s owner Al Shaqab Racing, said. “But it shows what a good horse he is and a very exciting animal to go to war with this year. Hats off to the winner who is a hell of a horse, but in a fast-run race, it would be interesting.”
The next stop for Churchill may well depend on whether a better Derby candidate for Ballydoyle emerges in one of the trials scheduled for the next fortnight both in Britain and Ireland.
“My horse does everything the right way,” Moore said, “and through the race he filled me with a lot of confidence. He’s done everything right all his career and I couldn’t have been happier with him.
“He’s improved with every run and he’s come out and beaten the best at two, and he’s put up the best performance so far at three. I think he’ll keep on performing and he can improve on today. His dad won a Derby but we’re still a month away and I’m sure it will be discussed.”
Marsha defied a 7lb penalty for her defeat of Washington DC in last season’s Prix de l’Abbaye with victory by a neck in the Group Three Palace House Stakes, again with Washington DC in second place.
The four previous winners of this race had all gone on to take the King’s Stand Stakes at Royal Ascot the following month, while the last seven have been successful at Group One level later in the campaign. Marsha, at 8-1, is now one of three fillies at a single-figure price at the head of the market for the King’s Stand, behind Acapulco (7-1) and Lady Aurelia, the favourite, at 4-1.
Seventh Heaven, who won both the Irish Oaks and Yorkshire Oaks last season, enjoyed a comfortable success on her four-year-old debut in the Group Two Jockey Club Stakes. Aidan O’Brien’s filly went five lengths clear of One Foot In Heaven in the closing stages and could now be aimed towards the Coronation Cup at Epsom on 2 June.
1.50 Final 2.20 Nezwaah 2.55 East Street Revue (nap) 3.35 Rhododendron (nb) 4.10 De Bruyne Horse 4.45 Horseplay 5.20 Harlow
1.35 Spirit Of Wedza 2.05 Dream Of Dreams 2.35 Monjeni 3.10 Nanny Makfi 3.45 Zylan 4.20 Mellor Brook 4.55 Jordan James
A year can be a long time in football. Twelve months after the 5,000-1 shots were crowned Premier League champions here, goals from Wilfred Ndidi, Riyad Mahrez and Marc Albrighton secured a victory for Leicester that moved them into the top half of the table for the first time since September.
It meant Craig Shakespeare has now recorded five successive home victories since replacing Claudio Ranieri in February – the first Leicester manager to achieve that feat in the top flight since Gordon Milne in 1984.
That statistic, coupled with the fact they are now on course to finish higher than Chelsea could manage in their title defence last year, should go a long way to ensuring the former assistant is handed the post on a permanent basis.
“The whole club can be very pleased that we have been able to secure Premier League survival,” said Shakespeare. “Now we have three games left and I want to try and finish on a high.”
In a week when Leicester’s players said goodbye to the trophy they won last year at an impromptu ceremony in the training ground canteen, it remains to be seen how many of the players who contributed to such a memorable achievement will be here with him come August.
Demarai Gray’s plea for more opportunities when the 20-year-old has been restricted to nine league starts this season appeared to have fallen on deaf ears as Shakespeare named his tried and trusted starting XI once again for this dead rubber.
Mahrez became the first Algerian to make 100 appearances in the Premier League, although last season’s PFA player of the year is also believed to be having itchy feet now the fairytale story of the past two seasons is finally at an end.
Reports have suggested that Barcelona have been keeping tabs on his progress, but aside from the odd flicker Mahrez has rarely risen to the exalted heights of the 2015-16 title-winning campaign.
On the strength of those performances, his agents negotiated a new contract last summer containing an agreement that will allow him to leave the club if a suitable offer – understood to be around £40m – is received.
That price tag could prove to put off the majority of suitors but Mahrez appeared intent on showing why he may be worth the risk with a performance that was oozing with skill and was capped by his 10th goal of the season in all competitions.
Watford, who have now lost five successive away matches without scoring since their win at Arsenal in January, left their captain, Troy Deeney, on the bench in favour of Stefano Okaka.
Walter Mazzarri has promised to take an intensive course in English at the end of the season despite having spent the best part of two years in the country before his arrival at Vicarage Road. The chances of him becoming the first Watford manager to survive the summer since Gianfranco Zola in 2013 seem low, even if his side did come close to finding a way back into the game after Étienne Capoue had gifted Ndidi the opening goal in the first half.
“The result didn’t really reflect how the game went,” said Mazzarri, via an interpreter. “We committed two individual mistakes for the goals but our performance for much of the game was the same as Leicester.”
Mahrez left the field to a standing ovation when he was replaced by Gray, but the best moment was reserved for the second minute of stoppage time.
Jamie Vardy, who has shown his quality in the past few weeks as Leicester have pulled away from the bottom three, broke down the left and timed his pass to perfection for Albrighton to fire home via the post.
“It was a year ago so it was good to put it behind us,” said Shakespeare. “We have to move on from that now. I don’t think you can take anything for granted in football. I have an assistant manager’s contract after the end of the season so I have to make sure I do everything accordingly and professionally.”
He and his superiors will just hope they can persuade Mahrez, Vardy and some of Leicester’s other heroes that the grass is not always greener on the other side.
… Leicester celebrated becoming the unlikeliest champions in the Premier League years, possibly in football history. After Spurs’ slip at Chelsea the previous Monday conceded the title while the Leicester players watched at Jamie Vardy’s house, the striker starred in an on‑pitch party scoring twice in a 3-1 win against Everton. The hangover lasted a long time and Claudio Ranieri ultimately lost his job, but the memories will last a lot longer.
Manchester City moved into third place in the Premier League on goal difference as Pep Guardiola’s commitment to attack paid dividends against Crystal Palace, who have claimed some impressive scalps over the last month but were always on the back foot here. Given the number of times the home side’s fleet-footed front runners gave the visitors’ patched-up defence a chasing, the margin of victory could have been even more emphatic but otherwise City made light of the absence of Sergio Agüero with their biggest league win of the season to leave Palace looking elsewhere for confirmation of their safety.
Sam Allardyce enjoyed telling everyone how he tactically outsmarted Liverpool at Anfield a fortnight ago and, to his credit, he was just as willing to front up after a far less convincing performance resulted in his heaviest defeat with his present side. “City thrashed us and that was annoying because we gifted them all their chances,” the Palace manager said. “All five goals could have been avoided if we had defended properly and losing like that is unacceptable. We recovered from their first goal quite well, then fell into the same trap at the start of the second half. After that it was capitulation.”
Even before the goals started to go in, it was never difficult to tell the teams apart. Allardyce went with four full-backs, count them, strung in a line across the back. Guardiola made his own statement of intent by utilising just the one. Gaël Clichy operated in his normal position on the left while City deployed Fernandinho at right-back, watched by Pablo Zabaleta, Bacary Sagna and Aleksandar Kolarov from the bench.
That interested trio of judges would have awarded a poor score for positional discipline when Fernandinho wandered into midfield in the fourth minute to allow Patrick van Aanholt and Wilfried Zaha to make huge inroads down the Palace left, though Guardiola’s attacking line-up had already proved its worth by that point as City were in the lead.
It took David Silva just under two minutes to pierce the Palace defence, collecting a return pass from Raheem Sterling via a terrible headed clearance from Martin Kelly to score with a volley from close to the penalty spot. If Kelly should have dealt with Sterling’s attempted cross more effectively than merely turning the ball back into a danger area, that is one of the risks one takes when a full-back is asked to play centre-half. City were also taking a huge gamble in getting Fernandinho to look after Zaha but, when the Palace winger found enough space to set up a cross, Clichy was able to reach the ball before Christian Benteke.
City looked slick going forward, with Fernandinho bringing a save from Wayne Hennessey, Sterling seeing a shot cleared off the line and wasting an opportunity by trying to set up Gabriel Jesus when he might have been better going for goal himself, but every time Zaha got the ball he was able to ask questions of the home defence. Vincent Kompany accepted a booking with a shrug on the half-hour, blatantly blocking Zaha with an indication that he had been left with no choice. On the next occasion Zaha eluded Fernandinho it led to a cross from the right and Willy Caballero had to make a save from Benteke’s header.
Many a manager might have made a change at the interval, though of course Guardiola did not and his boldness was rewarded within four minutes of the restart. When a half-cleared corner came back to Kevin De Bruyne, he tricked the Palace defence into expecting a cross before cutting the ball back to Kompany on the floor, and the captain responded by summoning power and accuracy in a first-time shot.
A fine Hennessey save was needed to keep out a well-struck free-kick from De Bruyne but Palace’s resistance did not last long after that. Leroy Sané missed a chance before Jesus set up De Bruyne for the third, the midfielder arriving to take the striker’s short pass in his stride and clip a low shot past the goalkeeper.
Zabaleta came on to take over at right-back for the last 22 minutes and was involved in the fourth goal, nodding Yaya Touré’s cross into Sterling’s path for the winger to apply a left-foot finish, then Nicolás Otamendi completed the scoring with a spectacular flying header from De Bruyne’s free-kick. Jesus had left the field by then, oddly goalless on a day when all around him seemed to be filling their boots, though City will be relieved to see the young Brazilian manage more than 80 minutes without mishap.
It will be surreal in the extreme when Novak Djokovic goes on court in defence of his title in Madrid next week, glances up at his box and the growling, comforting countenances of his fiercely loyal Serbian friends are missing. The troubled world No2 called the nuclear clearout of his support staff on Friday “shock therapy”. And it does have the unmistakeable ring of a psychiatrist’s formula, a decision reached after a deep discussion about life and tennis. It also has the ring of desperation.
Whatever the agreed public stance of mutual agreement, these are close friends and confidants he has let go, not just employees. They have been with him most of the past decade and were a tight-knit unit.
Djokovic’s departing coach, Marian Vajda, had been alongside him since 2006, before he won the first of his 12 slam titles, fitness coach Gebhard “GG” Phil Gritsch was there “eight years to the day”, as he said later, and his physiotherapist, Miljan Amanovic, had been a part of this imposing inner sanctum for just as long, rarely quoted, unquestioningly committed to the cause. Others also gathered around him for big matches. It was some posse.
Players split with coaches all the time. Although Andy Murray has been reconciled for a year now with Ivan Lendl after a messy divorce, he has said goodbye to half-a-dozen mentors with professional ruthlessness. Even the ever-calm Roger Federer needed a couple of years with Stefan Edberg, his personal hero, to brighten up his game, before the Swede moved quietly out of the picture at the end of 2015.
It will seem different altogether, though, when Vajda, GG and Amanovic are not there for Djokovic in Madrid against either of the expert Spanish clay-courters, Tommy Robredo or Nicolás Almagro. Either opponent would regard Djokovic as beatable. He has not been this vulnerable on court for a long time.
Quite who Djokovic will call on to replace his compadres is a mystery. He followed Murray’s lead three years ago when he turned to a former leading player in Boris Becker and he might do something similar again. There will be no shortage of candidates and whoever it is will have the luxury of a relatively free hand.
Even the ebullient German sometimes wondered if he was as deeply embedded as the others. He notoriously risked his boss’s wrath when he revealed last year that they often called out to their employer during a match in Serb or Croat, possibly passing on advice that bordered on coaching, which is not allowed. When Becker left, it was thought the Djokovic camp would turn inwards again and remain strong. For a while, they did.
Vajda’s exit is not a complete surprise. He had long ago tired of the travel and cut down his overseas commitments during Becker’s three years, so that separation had already begun. The first signs of a more fundamental change arrived about a year ago, though, almost imperceptibly.
Into the mix stepped Pepe Imaz, a former fringe Tour player from Spain who sells contentment through meditation. Imaz was prominent courtside, giving headline writers a gift when he arrived in flowing robes and long hair. Djokovic did not like his friend characterised as a guru, but an hour-long video of the player speaking at one of Imaz’s meetings did little to dispel the notion.
Coincidentally or not, Imaz joined the Djokovic caravan about the time the then world No1 was experiencing what he would later describe as personal issues. Whatever was troubling him, his game suffered. An elbow injury struck, too. At the Rio Olympics, Djokovic was a not-so-shock first-round loser to Juan Martin del Potro. The Serb was inconsolable in defeat. There could be no doubting his desire to do well for his country.
At the Paris Masters, he collapsed to hand Murray his world No1 crown and retreated with unusual grumpiness. While his relationship with British tennis writers has always been cordial, it briefly deteriorated, culminating in a verbal spat with a tabloid writer after he had lost to Murray at the ATP World Tour Finals in London. The exchange went viral on social media among the Serb’s thousands of aggrieved fans.
The new season brought no respite. Djokovic lost to Denis Istomin in the first week of the Australian Open, just before Murray lost to Mischa Zverev, which opened the door for Federer’s astonishing return after six months away. Neither the new world No1 nor the old world No1 has properly returned to his best since – which seems to have unsettled Djokovic more than it has Murray.
When Djokovic lost four sets in a row against Nick Kyrgios in consecutive hardcourt tournaments this year, mild concern grew into genuine consternation. Nobody beats Djokovic twice in a row, to borrow from Vitas Gerulaitis.
In a carefully prepared statement on his Facebook page on Friday afternoon, Djokovic asserted: “I want to find a way to come back to the top stronger and more resilient. I am a hunter.”
Before he fell to earth on his second visit to Paris last year, Djokovic was the hunted, the world No1 for 122 weeks in a row. Even after losing to the estimable David Goffin in Monte Carlo last month, he was adamant: “I fear no one.”
That is the Djokovic the game needs restored to full power. He has been an awesome sight and will surely be so again, perhaps when he returns to Roland Garros as champion next month. But it will not be as easy as it once was. Far from it. He is involved in a serious personal battle of character and self-belief. Uncertain as a prodigy, he grew in strength as his talent blossomed and he crushed his peers. Now, for the first time in his career, he must do it alone.
Wayne Bennett wanted a test for England in their preparation for the World Cup and while he certainly got that in Campbelltown he will also have drawn much encouragement from his side’s performance.
There was no sugar-coating England’s below-par performances in last autumn’s Four Nations, making this an important step for the national side on the road to this year’s World Cup.
England, seeking a real challenge to stiffen them in anticipation for the tournament, had opted for a whistle-stop trip to Sydney rather than a game on home territory against weaker opposition. It looks to have been a wise move.
The Samoans, fifth in the world rankings, were widely expected to cause problems. While they did that in fits and bursts, the England coach will have been delighted with what was, for the most part, an accomplished and polished performance.
In the first 40 minutes, England were near-faultless. That they led 14-0 was no less than they deserved with notable performances across the park. Sam Burgess looked back to his imposing best after an off-colour Four Nations, James Graham supported him ably in the front-row while Josh Hodgson, the former Hull KR hooker and now with Cronulla, led the way with ball in hand.
The opening moments set the tone for what would follow. England forced an error from the physically imposing Samoans before a superb pass from Sean O’Loughlin – who produced an impressive display on his return as captain – allowed Ryan Hall to cross for his 34th try in as many Tests.
Luke Gale converted and later added a penalty to make it 8-0. Another piece of attacking brilliance carved open the Samoans again. This time Stefan Ratchford was the beneficiary after a good pass from Gale in the build-up.
To their credit, Samoa were much improved in the second half. England’s impressive first-half display was built on a largely error-free performance, but when Ratchford was bundled into touch shortly after the break, Samoa responded when Joey Leilua broke England’s line to cross.
England quelled any hope of a comeback when Hodgson finished another fine attacking move and after Anthony Milford scored a late try Graham’s robust display was capped with a try of his own. Jermaine McGillvary then rounded off the scoring and an encouraging display for Bennett as the focus now switches to the World Cup.
The Melbourne Vixens extended their unbeaten streak in Super Netball to eight games with an 11-goal win over the Queensland Firebirds at Hisense Arena on Saturday night. The 66-55 result lifts the Vixens to 19 points and three clear of the second-placed Giants, who have a game to play.
The Vixens led from start to finish in a complete performance as the fifth-placed Firebirds remain adrift of a finals spot, with three rounds remaining.
In her 50th game, Vixens shooter Mwai Kumwenda top scored with 43 goals from 47 attempts, while Tegan Philip made numerous shots well out from the post on her way to 23 goals. The home side’s defence proved just as damaging, with Emily Mannix and Jo Weston containing the Firebird’s towering shooter Romelda Aiken to 42 goals from 53 attempts.
With their season on the line, the Firebirds came to disrupt the Vixens’ game and early on they looked to shut down the centre pass and apply fierce defence throughout the court. The Vixens didn’t have it all their own way in a highly physical encounter but adapted well and went to the first break four-goals to the good.
Firebirds defender Gretel Tippet’s shove in the back of Vixens defender Weston deep in the second quarter sent her opponent to the floor and showed how much each goal meant as the hosts extended their lead to nine goals at half-time. Tensions were high, yet the cool shooting duo of Kumwenda and Philip continued and built an advantage that stretched out to 14 goals at the final break.
The Firebirds didn’t give up though and fought back to win the final quarter.
A dark cloud has been hanging over the Kentucky Derby this weekend as horse trainers have made public their anger at Trump’s immigration policies, which they say are hurting the Kentucky Derby, the US’s most glamorous horse racing event.
“We can’t find workers this year – it’s been tough,” says Julio Rubio of the Kentucky Horsemen’s Benevolent and Protective Association. “Most of the workers we have at the track won’t even leave to go out at night to buy groceries because they are so scared of being deported.”
The horse racing industry is big business in Kentucky. It brings more than $4bn a year to the state. The owners of horses at Churchill Downs racetrack are among the country’s economic elite; derby winners can bring in purses that easily exceed $1m.
But the race, and the work of the wider industry, rest largely on the backs of an immigrant workforce making on average $400-$600 a week as well as free lodging in a huge dormitory inside the Churchill Downs complex. The skilled work typically requires a regular crew of guest workers, who live in Mexico in the offseason. However, as a result of Trump’s immigration crackdown, many horse workers were unable to make the trek to Churchill Downs this year.
Horse owners have spent the week criticizing the effect that Trump’s immigration policies have had on this year’s derby.
“There’s a lot of uncertainty about whether or not we are going to have the labor force we need,” Dale Romans, the second-winningest trainer in Churchill Downs’ history, told the UK’s Channel 4 News this week.
The owners are not the only ones who are angry. Heavy rain last Thursday marred the Pegasus Day parade that marks the opening of the annual Kentucky Derby festival. But Sarah Nunes, a member of Mijente, a national organization of Latino activists, wasn’t going to let it put her off. “Don’t worry, we have mint juleps and bourbon back there,” she joked before heading out to protest in the freezing rain.
Nunes led a group of half a dozen Mijenete activists dressed in the dark green sashes that prizewinning horses at the Derby wear. They handed out flyers calling on Louisville to become a “sanctuary city”.
The normally festive parade had turned into a mess of ponchos and crying children. But despite the cold weather, the crowd’s reaction to the flyers, featuring a mint julep and calling on activists to “#CrushIce”, appeared to be warm.
Activists with Mijente said the Derby marked the first time the state’s economic elite had addressed the issue of immigration.
“It’s hypocritical,” said Jesus Ibanez. “We are glad that they are concerned for the individuals working at the horse stalls, but this has been happening throughout the city, and they say nothing.”
Ibanez said that since Trump had taken office, approximately 100 undocumented immigrants had been arrested in raids in the Louisville area. He described fear in the community amid stories that mothers had been arrested when walking their children to school.
“My God, I was getting calls left and right from families not taking their kids to school,” said Ibanez. “They weren’t going anywhere outside of their homes.”
Despite the relative silence of the business community regarding the raids, Nunes said that she saw the outrage on behalf of horse owners as a sign of progress for the growing immigrant community in Louisville.
“We have really been embraced,” said Nunes. “Communities are coming out for us – lesbian groups, Black Lives Matter, the unions, the churches – they all come out for us. People are loving that Latino people are getting organized here in Louisville.”
The activists, owners and the crowds seemed to be making the best of the parade, and the weather, until someone spotted Kentucky’s notoriously anti-union Republican governor, Matt Bevin.
The immigrant activists started booing him and Bevin quickly fled to the other side of the street to continue his glad-handing with the crowd.
But cornered by the Guardian, Bevin too expressed concern about how immigration policies are affecting the Kentucky Derby this year.
“I mean, the reality is that we need employment, we need people who are here legally, so we need to make it easy and fast for people to be immigrated into the United States,” says Bevin. “We need immigration; we need safe immigration; we need fast immigration.”
Back on the sidewalk on East Broadway, Nunes said she was shocked by Bevin’s statements.
“Is it an opening? Yeah, I do think it’s an opening, but the people they are having conversations with aren’t people like us. It’s business owners,” said Nunes. “We are people that want to live in a society that is safe and fair, and where we do not have to worry about driving and getting pulled over and being deported. These are the kind of people they should be talking to.”
“It’s progress,” said Nunes. “But we got a lot of work to do.”
Just when Feyenoord supporters thought it was safe to crow after 18 years in the wilderness, along came Bertrand Traoré, Kasper Dolberg and co. Giovanni van Bronckhorst’s side travel to Excelsior on Sunday knowing victory would secure a first Eredivisie title this century, although Ajax’s 4-1 victory over Lyon in the Europa League semi-final first leg at the Amsterdam ArenA on Wednesday has already threatened to put something of a dampener on the celebrations.
“All the emotions are a little bit spread at the moment,” admits Bert Konterman, the former Rangers and Holland defender and a member of the Rotterdam club’s 1999 title-winning side. “Half the country supports Feyenoord and the other half Ajax so some people really don’t know whether to be happy or sad.”
With two matches to go, a 10-match home winning streak at their De Kuip stadium has cemented De club van het volk (The club of the people) into pole position in the title race. But while Ajax’s surprising achievements in Europe with a squad with an average age of less than 23 have evoked memories of their mid-90s triumphs under Louis van Gaal, Feyenoord’s success this season has been firmly built on a mixture of youth and experience.
Five of Van Bronckhorst’s squad have Premier League experience – the former Liverpool goalkeeper Brad Jones and veteran forward Dirk Kuyt, the ex-Aston Villa midfielder Karim El Ahmadi, plus the wingers Eljero Elia, who was on loan at Southampton last season, and the Watford loanee Steven Berghuis – yet each of them arrived in Rotterdam with a point to prove. The 21 goals and 11 assists provided by the Denmark striker Nicolai Jorgensen have proved invaluable to a side that employs the traditional 4-3-3 Dutch system, with the emphasis firmly on attacking.
“In July, the chairman announced that they were hoping to win the title this year, although the goal for the season was to qualify for Europe,” recalls the NRC Handelsblad journalist and Feyenoord supporter, Mark Lievisse Adriaanse. “Everyone was saying: ‘Yeah, sure, winning the title: look at last season. You finished third but lost seven games in a row so there is no chance of winning the title this year.’ So nobody expected this. They have dominated the league by being top of the table since day one and it feels like a wave of suffering is falling off after 18 years of waiting. This will probably be the most beautiful league title the club has ever won because the suffering has been so hard. We were almost bankrupt, lost 10-0 and were not serious competitors for years.”
That 10-0 defeat by PSV Eindhoven in October 2010 proved to be a watershed. With the club already mired in €40m of debt, the most humiliating result in the proud history of the 1970 European Cup winners hastened the arrival of Martin van Geel to replace Leo Beenhakker as technical director. One of his first acts was to sack the coach, Mario Been, at the end of the season and replace him with Ronald Koeman, who had been out of work since leaving AZ Alkmaar 18 months earlier.
“At the time Feyenoord had a very young side that wasn’t much different to the team that had lost 10-0,” remembers Lievisse Adriaanse. “Players like Stefan de Vrij, Georginio Wijnaldum, Leroy Fer and Bruno Martins Indi had started to come through but Koeman introduced a very professional attitude that meant he would not accept losses or small influences in the club that blocked progress. Hiring him was very important for the process and Van Geel must take a lot of credit for that. But on the other hand he also hired Fred Rutten, who was less successful. When he left in 2015, there was no other candidate for the job than Van Bronkhorst.”
Despite spending four years as an assistant to first Koeman and then Rutten, who coincidentally was in charge of PSV for that 10-0 defeat, the former Rangers and Arsenal midfielder was an unexpected choice. But Konterman believes the appointment of the former Holland midfielders Jan Wouters and Jean-Paul van Gastel, club captain in 1999, to his backroom staff was a masterstroke.
“Giovanni has surprised me,” says Konterman. “I played with him at Rangers and for Holland but in my eyes he wasn’t a leader. What he is doing now is fantastic and he has done well to organise a strong team around him. The combination of these three, who are very different characters, has been so influential. There has been a lot of pressure on the group, especially over the last few weeks, and it can be difficult to handle that. So the experience of players like Kuyt and El Ahmadi has also been crucial.”
In particular, the transformation in the midfielder Tonny Vilhena has caught the eye. Having burst into the first team under Koeman as a teenager, he appeared to be on his way out of the club after refusing to sign a new contract and falling out of favour with Van Bronkhorst. Lucrative moves to Leicester and Milan were on the table but the 22-year-old’s dramatic U-turn ensured he remained at the club he had joined 15 years earlier.
“Everyone was surprised he stayed. But the most important thing was that his mother had cancer and he didn’t want to leave her,” says Lievisse Adriaanse. “He knew that if he went overseas then he would not get the chance to see her much. He’s been one of the star players this year. A couple of years ago the criticism was that he was too selfish but all the problems that he’s had seem to have vanished. In the Netherlands we’re used to having teenagers in the team but it’s usual to have a period after they break through when it’s more difficult.”
Vilhena’s commitment to the cause was underlined this week when he agreed another contract extension until 2020, with rising stars Terence Kongolo and Emil Hansson following suit as they prepare for next season’s Champions League group stages. A new 63,000-capacity stadium is also in the pipeline. They may yet be followed into the group stages of the Champions League by Ajax should they win the Europa League but Konterman, who now coaches the Twente under-19 side that produced Leicester’s Wilfred Ndidi, is convinced that rivalry will only benefit Dutch football in the long run after recent years in the doldrums.
“More young players must be given a chance and then there will be confirmation in what we are doing in training and educating the young players,” he says. “We have been searching for the right way to make changes and have lost our vision. The average age in the Dutch league is much lower than it used to be – in my day it was around 27 or 28. A lot of the boys from 1999 were internationals already and used to the big games. There are also more Dutch players in the teams now – we had players from Argentina, Russia, Brazil and Poland and I think that reflects the fact that the Eredivisie has become more of a feeder league. We know our place in Europe and that means we have teams with young players who end up going to England or Spain to earn the big money. It’s not nice because we want a strong league as well but we can’t compete with the TV money in those countries.”
For now, though, the focus is firmly on Sunday. Defeat at Excelsior would give Ajax a sniff of overhauling Feyenoord at the summit but, with a match against Heracles at De Kuip to come next week, surely they cannot blow it this time. “The significance for Rotterdam is huge,” says Lievisse Adriaanse. “I was five in 1999 so I don’t remember anything about the last league title. For a whole generation of supporters, we are experiencing what is happening right now for the first time. I don’t really know how to feel.”
The whining noise coming from the direction of Old Trafford has become steadily more audible in recent weeks, with José Mourinho mixing traditional gripes about exhaustion and fixture overload with some inventive new ones that would not occur to many other managers, such as complaining that his injured players seem to lack the will or competitive drive to return more quickly.
By rights it should be a member of Manchester United’s much put-upon back line doing all the moaning. Luke Shaw has been treated with something between mistrust and outright dissatisfaction all season, and could not get any sympathy from his manager even when ligament damage forced him off the field against Swansea.
In urging Phil Jones and Chris Smalling to ignore their toe and leg injuries and put the club’s need for central defenders first, Mourinho not only raised eyebrows among medical specialists but sent out a very public message that he had little confidence in Daley Blind’s ability to cover. Blind may not be a specialist centre-half – it is just one position he can fill when necessary – but not only has the Dutch international been one of United’s most consistent performers this season, he has managed to keep himself fit through a very busy April.
Does Mourinho value his contribution and his versatility? Not that you can tell from his public pronouncements. Blind simply joins a list of players – Anthony Martial, Henrikh Mkhitaryan, Matteo Darmian and Wayne Rooney among them – whose confidence has been undermined by their manager’s words or actions this season. This is perhaps one reason why Mourinho has not tended to stay at the same club for more than two or three seasons. That would appear to be the recommended dose of a manager some players warm to and others find irritating. Any longer and the cons tend to outweigh the pros, the scapegoats begin to outnumber the favourites.
Mourinho can, and does, ridicule Arsène Wenger as a specialist in failure and a dweller in the past, but two decades at the same club is not something the United manager is going to approach. He would say he has no wish to, of course, and there might be something in the theory that a coach can give of his very best for only a relatively short period of time before both parties begin to need a new stimulus, though let us not forget that Sir Alex Ferguson was even longer at United. Staying the course for more than 20 years is not necessarily a recipe for underachievement and supporter unrest, it just happens to require an adaptability and emollience that Mourinho does not possess.
Even as Mourinho prepared for another battle with his oldest rival in England, complaining as he does so that accumulative tiredness might force him to make a few changes at the Emirates, the difference in attitude between the two managers was noticeable.
Wenger, the one lower in the table and in real danger of missing out on the Champions League for the first time this century, has been perfectly chipper and positive. Mourinho, even in victory at Celta Vigo, was unhappy with the finishing, the result and the injury situation, just about everything in fact except the application of Marcus Rashford. So, going into the match that will probably decide whether United finish above Arsenal, has it been a good season at Old Trafford or not?
Moaning might be Mourinho’s modus operandi, but has the United manager actually got anything to complain about, or would most other managers happily swap places?
United might not make the top four. That would be hard to take normally, though at least Mourinho and his players took the Europa League seriously from the start and have that means of Champions League qualification as insurance. It is a long and draining competition but the bulk of it is behind them; United should not falter from here and can claim a second trophy of the season in Stockholm on 24 May.
Mourinho says his players are suffering through having to play more games than anyone else. To an extent this is true, though as United know better than most, it is the price of success. Stay in a European competition until its closing stages and the games mount up. Playing nine or 10 games in April is nothing new for United and the workload was the same for most of the semi-finalists in this year’s Champions League.
United have lost key players through injury. They have been unlucky in certain areas, notably in losing Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Marcos Rojo to serious knee injuries at the same time, though Mourinho does have one of the biggest and most capable squads at his disposal.
His cover at centre-half includes Eric Bailly and Blind, and Smalling is available again, while in Martial and Rashford he has two of the most exciting young forwards in the Premier League. Rooney and Ibrahimovic was never a partnership that seemed likely to work, in view of the age and mobility of the pair, and it is important to remember that United were dominating games without scoring the goals necessary to kill off opponents long before Ibrahimovic was ruled out for the season.
Mourinho needs to get more penetration and end product from Mkhitaryan, Juan Mata and Jesse Lingard next season, or buy in the type of player who will score 20 goals. At the moment Antoine Griezmann and Kylian Mbappé are mentioned quite often as transfer targets and United are one of the few clubs that could raise the money.
United are so overstretched they are going to play a team of kids against Arsenal to give themselves the best chance of reaching the Europa League final. Some managers at some clubs might consider that, this one at this club probably will not. United have standards, after all, and so does Mourinho. He has yet to lose in a competitive game to Wenger in more than a dozen encounters, and is not about to offer his head on a plate. United might come off second best when they travel to Spurs on Sunday 14 May, but they are not in anywhere near enough trouble to start making life easy for Arsenal.
Why are they in this mess?
Simple, really – because of the ludicrous decision to sack Gary Rowett in December and replace him with Gianfranco Zola. At the time of Rowett’s departure, Birmingham were seventh, outside of the play-offs only on goal difference. By the time Zola fell on his sword, four months later, Birmingham had slumped to 20th, three points above the relegation places. Zola’s appointment showed what happens when owners and directors are seduced by a “name”. Panos Pavlakis, the influential club director, talked about Zola’s “pedigree, philosophy and ambition” and asked Birmingham’s supporters to “trust our judgment” as the board sought to “move in a new direction”. That direction was downhill. Fast.
Did anyone see this coming?
Birmingham’s owners back in Hong Kong didn’t, that’s for sure. Neither did Pavlakis, who said that appointing Zola would enable Birmingham’s fans to “embrace the future as we begin to implement the exciting vision of Trillion Trophy Asia [the club’s owners]”.
Alarm bells were ringing early on – Zola, with a brand of possession-based football that never looked like working, failed to win any of his first 10 games in charge. Yet it still seemed inconceivable that Birmingham, with such a healthy point haul from the first half of the season, could get sucked into a survival scrap. By the time that Derby, now managed by Rowett, won at St Andrew’s on 8 April, the threat of relegation loomed large. Zola resigned nine days later, prompting Birmingham to turn to Harry Redknapp.
How damaging would relegation be?
“Armageddon” was the word Lee Clark used three years ago to sum up what relegation to League One would mean for his Birmingham side. They ended up surviving on the final day, courtesy of an injury-time equaliser at Bolton, but there was good reason to be concerned about the wider ramifications of relegation at the time, given that Carson Yeung, the club’s chairman, had just been imprisoned for money laundering.
The situation is not as dire now, yet there is still plenty of uncertainty surrounding the club. Birmingham supporters know next to nothing about Trillion Trophy Asia and the people who have the fate of their club in their hands. Relegation is the last thing anyone at Birmingham needs.
Can they bounce back straight away?
They did in 1995. Barry Fry’s first full season in charge, following a relegation, culminated in promotion from the third tier as champions. Redknapp, however, is highly unlikely to stay on as manager if Birmingham slide into League One and, bearing in mind what happened with Zola, could the owners be trusted to identify the right man to bring the club back to the Championship? And would the money be there, as it was in the mid-90s with David Sullivan and David Gold at the helm, to fund the signings needed to return at the first attempt? Stuart James
Why are they in this mess?
One word: Venky’s. It is approaching seven years since the Indian chicken processing company bought what was then an established, well-run Premier League club from the Jack Walker Trust. Apart from a two-year period of relative stability under Gary Bowyer – and even that was achieved under a transfer embargo while in the Championship – the Pune-based owners have overseen a steady and many fear terminal decline of a proud, historic club.
Their ruinous ownership has included a series of managerial mistakes, a lack of communication with supporters and executives, excessive contracts that are still being paid to players who are no longer at Rovers, selling off assets on the playing staff and rising debt. And that’s just a brief summation.
Did anyone see this coming?
A second relegation on Venky’s watch would come as no surprise to anyone bar the owners, who will issue the occasional statement about wishing to retain the club and restore it to the Premier League while reducing investment in the playing squad. In the last four transfer windows alone, Blackburn have raised £27.8m by selling Jordan Rhodes, Grant Hanley, Rudy Gestede, Shane Duffy and Tom Cairney, and spent merely £250,000 on one new signing, Derrick Williams. The other arrivals have been free transfers and loans.
Several supporters groups have been formed in protest to Venky’s and warned of the inevitability of relegation – and worse – while also turning their ire on the Football Association for allowing so-called fit-and-proper owners to wreak havoc. Attendance figures reflect the level of disenchantment. Ewood Park has the lowest attendance-to-capacity percentage in the Championship this season – 38.9% – and witnessed its smallest league crowd for 25 years in December: 9,976 against Brighton.
How damaging would relegation be?
Administration has been the fear at Ewood for several seasons now and a drop into League One would bring that threat closer. As always with Venky’s, uncertainty and confusion reigns. Paul Senior ruled out the prospect of administration when he was appointed director of footballing operations in January. At the club’s biannual meeting with supporters in March – when no one from Venky’s or their supposed liaison, Suhail Pasha, bothered to attend – Rovers’ finance director, Mike Cheston, could not give the same assurances.
Blackburn’s debt stands at more than £100m, parachute payments from the Premier League stopped at the start of this season and, despite “fit-and-proper” owners having to fund a club, Rovers have required short-term loans for working capital in recent years. As the majority of debt is an £87m loan from Venky’s, administration would appear a damaging path for club and owners alike.
Can they bounce back straight away?
Tony Mowbray has restored some solidity and hope to Blackburn since replacing Owen Coyle in February but a summer of upheaval beckons whether survival is achieved or not. Several first-team regulars are out of contract and the club’s most saleable assets have already departed, hence the continued spiral. An immediate return would be a tall order for any manager with their meagre budget expected to be cut further. Andy Hunter
Why are they in this mess?
It all goes to the top of the club and the erratic ownership of Fawaz al-Hasawi. Under the Kuwaiti, Forest have been getting progressively worse every season, with eight permanent managers and three interim appointments in not even five years. Forest have had a full-time chief executive for only five out of Hasawi’s 58 months as owner. There is no chief scout and, until recently, no director of football and no real structure. There is a skeleton staff, a general sense of decay and Hasawi, the only director, has not been to a game at the City Ground since September. Forest, meanwhile, have had what the Nottingham Evening Post describes as a “standing appointment at the high court”, referring to all their unpaid tax bills and winding-up orders. Players have missed wages and talked between themselves about going on strike. It is a chaotic, fractured club, desperately in need of some expertise.
Did anyone see this coming?
Forest finished eighth in Hasawi’s first year, most notable for him sacking Sean O’Driscoll after a 4-2 win against Leeds had left his team just outside the play-offs. The following year they were 11th, then 14th and last season 16th. See the trend? They are on their third manager of the current season and, laughably, there was one point when the people in charge decided they should try luring Chris Hughton away from Brighton.
Nigel Clough did not want to work with Hasawi and talked a few days ago about how much his father would have disliked the way Forest are now run. Paul Heckingbottom, the manager of Barnsley, was another candidate – until, that is, he described Forest as a no-go zone for any sensible member of his profession. “What’s the point going there with it is as it is?” he asked. Mark Warburton, fortunately for Forest, was not so fussy and could turn out to be a shrewd appointment, having been lined up by the club’s prospective new owners.
How damaging would relegation be?
Forest’s supporters are often accused of living in the past because of their references to the glory years under Brian Clough but the memories of losing to Yeovil – in fact, conceding five at home to Yeovil – in the League One play-offs in 2007 are always there, too. The last time the club dropped down to League One, in 2005, it took them three seasons to get back up. But they are in a worse position now in terms of infrastructure and there is an awful lot of work that needs to be done behind the scenes.
On a brighter front, Gary Brazil’s outstanding work in charge of the academy has already seen a number of highly rated youngsters breaking into the first team. Without those academy graduates – look out for Ben Brereton in particular – Forest would probably be down already.
Can they bounce back straight away?
In January, Hasawi was on the verge of selling the club to two American businessmen who had provisionally put in place a new structure with Gary Rowett taking over as manager, Paul Mitchell joining from Tottenham as sporting director and major work planned for the stadium and surrounding area. Lo and behold, Hasawi decided that he did “not think this deal is in the best interest for the club” without any proper explanation. Four months on, Evangelos Marinakis might be inheriting a League One club if, as expected, the Olympiakos owner completes his own takeover. Marinakis has a dubious reputation but most Forest fans will be delighted just to see the back of their current owner. As the hapless Hasawi has said himself, his replacement will almost certainly be “more professional”. Daniel Taylor
England out-classed Samoa 30-10 on Saturday at Campbelltown Stadium, shrugging off criticism of their Australian-born contingent and coach Wayne Bennett. Prop and Canterbury skipper James Graham was superb in the five-tries-to-two win, running for a game-high 168 metres and scoring the match-sealing try.
The Samoans were given a sniff when Brisbane five-eighth Anthony Milford came up with a piece of individual brilliance to jink through the line and make it 20-10 with 13 minutes on the clock. However Graham barged over in the 74th to ensure the victory before Jermaine McGillvary put the cherry on top.
England proved too disciplined and too well drilled, with halves Luke Gale and Kevin Brown outstanding. Hooker Josh Hodgson controlled the tempo while Elliott Whitehead was damaging with every run of his 80-minute stint.
Bennett was buffeted by critics in England during the week for his selection of Australian-born and bred players Chris Heighington and Chris McQueen. Former Great Britain great Garry Schofield called for Bennett to be sacked after English-based players Mark Percival, Scott Taylor and Alex Walmsley travelled halfway around the world to be left on the bench.
However the English looked slick and the the Samoans struggled to apply pressure on the back of poor decisions, particularly with their kicking and fifth tackle options.
The Samoans looked outclassed in the first half, going into the break down 14-0, however a try to Joey Leilua four minutes after the resumption brought his side into the match and the crowd to its feet. Just as Samoa looked like they were starting to win the arm wrestle, Luke Gale cut through and sent Hodgson over to make it 20-6.
Earlier, the Englishmen opened up the scoring after just the second minute when skipper Sean O’Loughlin floated a cut-out pass for Ryan Hall to cross in the corner. Bennett’s side were well held by the islanders for the rest of the half until Stefan Ratchford glided through a massive hold and stepped around Peter Mata’utia to score.
Earlier on Saturday night, a last-gasp try to Leilani Latu fired Tonga to a gripping 26-24 Test win over Fiji at Campbelltown Stadium. Fiji went into the final minutes up 24-20 but had their hearts broken when Tongan hooker Siliva Havili jumped out of dummy half and sent the Penrith forward crashing over.
Warriors veteran Manu Vatuvei steamed through Fiji’s defence for the first try in the opening minutes and covered the most ground for his team, making 173 metres. A hiccup from off-contract Canterbury fullback Will Hopoate on Tonga’s tryline gave Fiji a free pass, with captain Kevin Naiqama knocking the ball back to Ben Nakubuwaito to finish off the job.
A successful conversion by Siteveni Morceidreke had Fiji leading 18-14 at halftime. But Hopoate turned it around in the second half, cleaning up around the posts to prevent two tries.
In his international debut for Tonga, Wests Tigers youngster Moses Suli broke through to send his side ahead 20-18 in the 59th minute. The one-handed try by the 18-year-old was quickly answered when Tony Williams missed a tackle and left Fiji’s Daniel Saifiti with space to score. It was downhill from there for Williams, who limped off the field with a lower leg injury after a tackle by Korbin Sims seven minutes from full-time.
Earlier on Saturday, an incredible penalty goal from the halfway line right on the full-time siren from Ase Boas capped off Papua New Guinea’s 32-22 win against the Cook Islands. The sides were 12-all at half-time at Campbelltown Sports Ground on Saturday, in the first of the Pacific Test triple header.
PNG took an early lead with two consecutive tries from Thompson Teteh and Wartovo Puara. Geoff Daniela opened the scoring for the Cook Islands after a set-up pass by youngster Charnze Nicoll-Klokstad. 21-year-old Nicoll-Klokstad, who debuted for the Warriors last week, covered 125 metres in the first-half alone, but was taken off the field with an injury in the second half.
PNG regained some momentum in the second half with Stargroth Amean securing two tries and Tom Butterfield scoring one. Daniela then scored his second try and Wests Tigers second rower Esan Marsters scored another consolation try soon after for the Cook Islands.
Boas’ penalty goal closed out the scoring, giving the Kumuls their second straight Pacific Test win after last year’s 24-22 victory against Fiji.
New Zealand’s worst remains a class above Australia’s best after the Blues downed the NSW Waratahs by seven points in their Super Rugby clash in Sydney. A week after keeping Australia’s conference-leading Brumbies tryless in Canberra, the Blues accounted for the Waratahs 40-33 at Allianz Stadium on Saturday night.
Despite sitting last in the cut-throat New Zealand conference, the Blues buried the Waratahs to extend the Kiwi dominance over Australian opposition to 17 wins from as many trans-Tasman encounters in 2017 and dealt their opponents’ finals hopes a potentially fatal blow.
Israel Folau broke the longest try-scoring drought of his five-year Super Rugby career with a second-half double, but the star fullback’s first strikes in seven games were not enough for the Waratahs. With a bye and no opportunity to make inroads next week, the Waratahs are four competition points adrift of the Brumbies after suffering four straight home defeats for the first time in five years.
The damage was done in a dismal first half from the hosts. Starved of possession, the Waratahs wasted virtually any ball they had with fundamental errors. They knocked on, conceded turnovers, gave away scrum penalties on their own feed, kicked out on the full or simply kicked the ball away despite only having it for barely 20 per cent of the half.
The Waratahs were also punished for their ill-discipline, with five-eighth Piers Francis nailing four penalty goals and also converting the Blues’ both first-half tries to help the visitors to a 26-0 lead at the interval.
The Waratahs spent much of the week working on their one-on-one defence but it didn’t help Folau, Ned Hanigan or Tolu Latu as winger Reiko Ioane beat all three in a slashing 50-metre strike for the Blues’ first five-pointer in the 21st minute.
It was hard to know whether disgruntled fans were filing out of the ground or just heading to the bar after Blues lock Scott Scrafton strolled over a minute before halftime.
Folau crossed two minutes into the second half before hooker Tolu Latu, back from a shoulder injury, briefly raised hopes of the Waratahs pulling off their greatest-ever comeback win. Alas, Ioane’s second of the night, quickly followed by another from his brother Akira in the 66th minute blew the Blues’ lead back out to 40-12.
The Tahs finished with a flurry, claiming a bonus point after late tries to Bernard Foley (69th minute), Folau and prop Paddy Ryan at the death.
Earlier on Saturday afternoon, Melbourne’s Super Rugby misery continued with the Lions inflicting a brutal 37-point defeat at AAMI Park. The Lions ran in seven tries (and a penalty try) to one in the 47-10 victory, to collect a bonus point and continue their surge at the top of their South African conference. The Rebels remain anchored at the bottom of the Australian table with just one win for the season.
The Rebels’ injury hoodoo hit again just before kick-off, losing in-form flanker Colby Fainga’a with a thigh injury. Fainga’a took over the skipper’s armband from Nic Stirzaker, who was one of 15 players sidelined through injury, with Reece Hodge handed the captaincy duties.
Melbourne were never in the hunt, only managing 38 per cent of possession with a faltering attack, while the workload in defence took its toll, missing 29 tackles. If it wasn’t for the non-stop work by Rebels No.8 Amanaki Mafi the scoreline could have been even worse.
Lions flanker Kwagga Smith collected first points after 20 minutes on the back of some sustained pressure and Ross Cronje was in five minutes later. The halfback ran onto a neat inside ball from hooker Malcolm Marx and stepped around two Rebels to the tryline to open up a 14-0 lead.
Melbourne continued to toil hard and were rewarded when halfback Ben Meehan put through a clever grubber behind the Lions line, which was pounced on by Tom English. The conversion by Hodge closed the gap to seven points but that blew out just seconds before half-time when the Lions sent the ball wide and winger Courtnal Skosan put on the burners to go past some Rebels forwards for a 19-7 scoreline.
Five Lions tries came in a one-sided second half, including an 80 metre effort from Sylvian Mahuza with the winger bouncing off five Rebels players in a woeful defensive effort. A penalty try was also awarded in the 62nd minute with Melbourne lock Cullum Retallick yellow-carded for an intentional offside as he tried to prevent a try less than a minute after coming off the bench. Further tries from Anthony Volmink and Warren Whiteley rounded out the rout.
Later on Saturday in New Zealand, The Chiefs accounted for the Queensland Reds by 29 points. The run of Australian losses to New Zealand Super Rugby teams has extended to 22, after the Chiefs recorded a 46-17 win.
A three-try burst after half-time, including two tries in eight minutes to 2011 Rugby World Cup cult hero Stephen Donald, propelled the hosts to victory after what had been a well-contested first half in New Plymouth. Donald was superb starting at flyhalf in place of Aaron Cruden, steering the Chiefs around the park, allowing the likes of Damien McKenzie and James Lowe to run amok deep inside Reds territory.
With the match played largely in the Queensland half, even with a near-even share of possession, the Reds battled to make any great inroads into the Chiefs defence. Scott Higginbotham enjoyed another robust game that will only strengthen his case for a Wallabies recall in June, but try as he and fellow backrowers George Smith and Hendrik Tui might, they just couldn’t create any semblance of breakdown pressure.
Lowe’s try in the 72nd minute sealed the bonus point for the Chiefs, while McKenzie kicked five conversions from six attempts in the comprehensive win.
Earlier, the Reds opened the scoring with a try to Wallabies skipper Stephen Moore from a lineout drive, though the Chiefs hit straight back through prop Kane Hames. Reds winger Eto Nabuli then crossed out wide after an attempted Chiefs intercept fell into his arms.
Smith received a yellow card in the 26th minute for a high tackle, the Reds’ 10th card in as many games this season. With Smith still off the field, Chiefs centre Charlie Ngatai scored in his first Super Rugby match in nearly 12 months after overcoming concussion symptoms.
The Chiefs head in to their bye in a strong position in the New Zealand conference, while the Reds will face the Rebels in Melbourne next Saturday.
It is the statistic that needles Arsène Wenger. In 15 competitive matches, the Arsenal managerArsène Wenger is still to defeat José Mourinho. Wenger has talked about being open to a truce with his long-time adversary but what he really wants is a victory over him. If it happened, the top-four picture would look a lot brighter for Arsenal. Anything less and it could be over. Manchester United’s Europa League semi-final with Celta Vigo may colour the selection of their side. David Hytner
Kick-off Sunday 4pm
Venue Emirates Stadium
Last season Arsenal 3 Manchester United 0
Live Sky Sports 1
Referee Andre Marriner
This season G25, Y92, R2, 3.84 cards per game
Odds H 10-11 A 11-4 D 5-2
Subs from Ospina, Martínez, Bellerín, Jenkinson, Debuchy, Holding, Pérez, Mertesacker, Gibbs, Maitland-Niles, Elneny, Walcott, Sanogo, Iwobi, Welbeck
Doubtful Pérez (match fitness)
Injured Cazorla (achilles, Aug), Reine-Adélaïde (ankle, unknown), Xhaka (achilles, unknown)
Suspended None
Form DWLWWL
Discipline Y57 R2
Leading scorer Sánchez 19
Subs from Pereira, Tuanzebe, Romero, Pogba, Lingard, Valencia, Rashford
Doubtful Rashford (knee), Young (leg)
Injured Fosu-Mensah (shoulder, unknown), Ibrahimovic (knee, unknown), Rojo (knee, unknown), Shaw (foot, unknown)
Suspended Fellaini (second of three)
Form DWWWDD
Discipline Y73 R2
Leading scorer Ibrahimovic 17
Jürgen Klopp denies Liverpool struggle at Anfield – saying it was just “the moments” that let Bournemouth and Crystal Palace to take points from the last two home games – but they do have a problem with Southampton. This will be the seventh meeting between the sides in the past two seasons. Liverpool have won only once so far, a 6-1 rout in the Capital One Cup, and have not scored in three games against Claude Puel’s team this term. Philippe Coutinho is on course to recover from the dead leg suffered at Watford on Monday, with the home needing to hold their nerve in the race for Champions League qualification. Andy Hunter
Kick-off Sunday 1.30pm
Venue Anfield
Last season Liverpool 1 Southampton 1
Live Sky Sports 1
Referee Robert Madley
This season G27, Y111, R2, 4.26 cards per game
Odds H 4-7 A 5-1 D 3-1
Subs from Karius, Manninger, Lallana, Sturridge, Klavan, Grujic, Moreno, Stewart, Randall, Gomez, Alexander-Arnold, Woodburn, Ojo, Wilson, Ejaria, Brewster
Doubtful Coutinho (dead leg)
Injured Ings (knee, Jun), Mané (knee, Aug), Henderson (foot, unknown)
Suspended None
Form WDWWLW
Discipline Y52 R0
Leading scorer Mané 13
Subs from Hassen, Taylor, Clasie, Gardos, Long, Rodriguez, Cáceres, Romeu, Martina, Redd, Boufal, Pied, Isgrove, McQueen, Hesketh, Austin
Doubtful Austin (shoulder)
Injured Targett (hamstring, 13 May), McCarthy (hamstring), Van Dijk (foot, both unknown)
Suspended None
Form DWWLLD
Discipline Y52 R2
Leading scorers Austin, Redmond 6
Nobody knows how to work on a dream like Nicola Adams. As a young girl, she told her mother she was going to win a gold medal boxing at the Olympics. It wasn’t so much an ambition as a crazy fantasy: women’s boxing wasn’t even an Olympic sport at the time. But sure enough, Adams went on to become the first woman to win gold, at the London Olympics. Four years later, in Rio, she wept when she won gold again, becoming the first British boxer to retain an Olympic title since in 1924. She is a hero of mine – as a boxer (technically gifted and balletic, she dances like a pint-sized Muhammad Ali), as an accidental role model (the lack of fuss with which she revealed she was bisexual), as a life force (that luminous smile).
We meet in a south London photographer’s studio, just a few days after her first professional fight. Adams won the bout; she has also just got engaged to her girlfriend, Mexican-American boxer Marlen Esparza, and is living a sun-blushed life in San Francisco. Things could not be better. Perhaps this is what has made her ready to confront some of the unhappiest periods in her life.
Esparza is with her today, advising her on the photoshoot, telling her how hot she looks. The pair seem deliriously in love; and theirs must be one of the most romantic stories in the history of boxing. In her new autobiography, Believe, Adams says that when she was first introduced to Esparza, she was so taken by her she could not speak – nor the second time they met. The third time, she couldn’t stop talking. While Adams is having her photograph taken, Esparza tells me this is all true; that when they met she thought Adams was plain weird. But not for long.
Esparza is 27, seven years younger than Adams, and tells me, “I’m a lot meaner than Nicky. People take to her a lot quicker, because she looks more approachable. But when it comes to people she doesn’t know, she gets really nervous. She can be socially awkward.” Does she realise that? “Not really. I’ll say, ‘You’re self-conscious’, and she’s ‘No, I just feel weird.’ If you point out a flaw, she doesn’t recognise it. She likes to describe things in an optimistic way, and I like to describe things in a realistic way.”
When Adams sits down with me, I see what Esparza means. Adams looks into the distance, and answers in terse monosyllables – not aggressively, just self-consciously. But then she suddenly relaxes, and the contrast could not be more extreme: direct eye-contact, full answers, engaged, surprising. In fact, she turns out to be one of the most open people I have met.
The young Nicola was a frail little thing, waylaid by asthma, allergies, eczema. When she was five, the doctor told her mother she had better not let her run around, lest it trigger her asthma. Adams wasn’t having any of it: “Try and tell a five-year-old kid they can’t run up and down. It’s pretty much impossible,” she says in her hard, flat Yorkshire accent.
Adams has always said she fluked her way into boxing. When she was 12, her mother, Dee, went to an aerobics class and, not wanting to leave her two children home alone (her babysitter had cancelled), took them with her to the gym. It just so happened that there was a children’s boxing class on that day, which Nicola fancied – and that was that.
She told anybody who would listen that she would become an Olympic boxer. Few took her seriously. Although women’s boxing goes back to the 18th century, and appeared at the 1904 Olympics in a demonstration bout, it was not introduced as an Olympic sport until 2012. In England it was banned for more than a century, on the grounds that premenstrual syndrome made women too unstable to box. It wasn’t until November 1996 that the Amateur Boxing Association of England controversially voted in favour of lifting the ban, allowing girls as young as 10 to compete and to spar in gyms.
Adams had her first fight a year before the ban was lifted, aged 13, at a working men’s club in Leeds. She won, and then didn’t fight for four years: there simply weren’t any girls to fight. Surely she must have been tempted to give up? “Naaah.” She grins. “I still enjoyed the training. I’d go with the guys to support them when they were competing. It used to get me frustrated sometimes, because all I wanted to do was get in the ring.” Did she fight boys? “No. I used to spar boys, but I wasn’t allowed to box them.”
As we talk, it emerges that, beyond her chance start in boxing, Adams might have had a more profound motivation. In a chapter of her memoir tellingly entitled Round 1, she writes that her parents separated when she was 11, and that her mother “had put up with a lot”. She describes an incident that happened when she was around four and her parents were arguing. “I just wanted to get between them, so I jumped in front of my mum and tried to protect her with a plastic sword. I thought I could keep my dad away. My mum reckons that, even then, I was brave.” From the age of eight, she says, she begged her mother to leave her father; three years later, she did.
My dad was hitting my mum when I was trying to hit him with my plastic sword to protect her
Why was she so desperate for her mother to leave? “I knew she wasn’t happy and that made me unhappy as well. She’s such a bubbly, joyful person. I didn’t like the way I was seeing her being treated.” In her book, she says she hoped her father, Innocent, would change and learn, but he never did. What did he need to learn? “I guess just to be a better person, and to be nicer to my mum.” Adams is looking into the middle distance. Was her father violent to her mother? “Yes. My dad was hitting my mum when I was trying to hit him with my plastic sword to protect her.” And did he ever hit Nicola? “Yes. Just the odd slap here and there. But I was more concerned about my mum. I tried to fight back, but I was a bit small.” She looks at me, and even now that smile is luminous.
There is no doubt who the hero of her book, and life, is: Dee. In her early years, Adams’ family were comfortably off. Both parents were working (her father as a plasterer, her mother as a restaurant manager), and every summer they left Leeds to spend six weeks in New York with relatives. Adams talks about how they moved to a new estate after her mother left her father; how her mother took on two jobs, working day and night to make ends meet; how her mother’s black uniform went grey with rewashing. She worked, at different times, as a manager for a jewellery company, for a restaurant, and as a hairdresser.
However tough it was, Adams says her family life was transformed. The three of them (Dee, Adams, and her younger brother Kurtis) became an even closer unit. “We started laughing, and joking.” Had it been hard to laugh before? “Yeah, it was tough because you didn’t want to do anything where you could get into trouble… everybody would be tiptoeing around.” Would her father go off without warning? “Yes.” Did he drink? “No, not a lot – he was just really controlling. My mum wouldn’t be allowed to go out with her friends.”
While there were times she missed her father, Adams says she was relieved her mother had finally gathered the courage to make a fresh start. She understands why she found it hard to leave, describing a situation where “the other person is so controlling that they feel they can’t, or they feel they’re not mentally strong enough to do things on their own.”
Did her father scare her when she was a little girl? “Yes. He was huge. He’s not big no more, though.” She laughs. I bet you weren’t laughing back then, I say. “No, it was scary.” I ask her if she would ever campaign against domestic violence. “Yeah, I’d love to work with that.”
A year after her parents separated, Adams started boxing. Does she think the two things had anything to do with each other? “I don’t know,” she says. “I’ve never really thought about it that way. I’ve always been quite strong-minded. Maybe somewhere it did. At the time, I enjoyed boxing because it was a place I could go to escape. All the kids in the gym had problems, and it was a place you didn’t have to think about them.”
Before her father left, Adams had enjoyed watching classic matches with him on television. Does he deserve any credit for her success? She thinks long and hard. “I don’t know, because if my mum hadn’t taken me by mistake I wouldn’t have thought for one second I was going to be a boxer. She’s the reason I ended up boxing.”
At the age of 14, there was another family crisis. Dee contracted meningitis and almost died. Adams called the ambulance when she found her mother could barely walk, her speech slurred. And it was Adams who demanded that something urgent be done when she was left for three hours at the hospital. By then, Dee could not remember her date of birth or how many children she had. When the hospital eventually carried out tests, Adams says, they discovered her mother’s brain had begun to shut down; she had had only a couple of hours to live.
Dee’s recovery was slow and laborious. Twenty years on, she still suffers the after-effects, and while she recovered, Adams had to look after both herself and her brother. This is when she grew up; the word she uses repeatedly to describe herself through this period is “strong”. The one time she wept was in private. “I was by myself in the hospital cafeteria and I just broke down. I didn’t ever let my brother see me cry, because I didn’t want him to think things were really bad. I stayed strong for him. And I had to stay strong for Mum.”
To complicate matters, at the age of 15, Adams was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder. As always, she tries to see this as a positive. “I think it’s helped my training. I never get tired. I’ve always got energy. It helps with my shots. I’m always trying new things.”
When you have ADHD, you can start a million things, but it’s very hard to focus and just finish one thing
Sitting nearby, Esparza looks up from her phone and laughs. “I know I’ll never be bored, because I never know what she’s going to do. It’s hard to keep up with her.”
Is Adams calmer these days? ”Well, I’m on Adderall, so I’m more focused. I stopped for a bit, but went on it again. When you have ADHD you can start a million things, but it’s very hard to focus and just finish one thing. The Adderall helps.”
I ask if she worked hard at school. “Only at classes I liked, like science and maths.” She once said her favourite book is Freakonomics, Steven Levitt and Stephen J Dubner’s study of economics based on the principle of incentives. Adams lights up like a pinball machine when I mention it. She smiles with her eyes, cheeks and nose. Even her ears seem to smile. “I really like that book because it explains economics in a fun way. Let me think of an example. Like, how drug dealers basically make the same amount of money as people working in McDonald’s.” She stops and corrects herself. “That might be in SuperFreakonomics, the second one.”
Is she a big reader? “I’ve read Bill Bryson’s History Of Nearly Everything. I liked that. What else? The God Delusion, the Richard Dawkins book.” Blimey, I say – but you’re a Christian, aren’t you? She grins. “Yeah. I was intrigued. I like trying to understand different views and perceptions. There are bits where it makes you question things. You think: ‘That’s a good point.’” So did Dawkins convert her? “Nah. I’m hanging on my own side!”
At school, she was a talented sprinter, running 100m and 200m for Leeds as a teenager. She might have made a career of running, if she wasn’t so taken with boxing. At 17, she got the chance to box for the second time, as “Babyface Adams”, winning with a knockout in the second round. There were still few fights to be had in Britain, so she travelled Europe to spar and compete. In 2001, she became the first woman boxer to represent England. In 2003, aged 20, she became English amateur champion.
Adams was still studying – first business studies, physical education and software development at college, then a BTec in sports science at Hopwood Hall in Rochdale. The main reason she went to Hopwood Hall was because the boxing coach Alwyn Belcher worked there: she was desperate for him to turn her into a champ. Like most of the men she came across, he was reluctant to train a woman, but in 2007 he coached her to a silver medal at the European Championships. A year later, she won another silver at the World Championships in China.
The attitude to women boxers was still primitive. There was little funding, hopeless facilities, no respect. Adams says that female boxers were treated like the kind of “novelty act you get on Britain’s Got Talent”. In her book, she describes how sometimes one girl would finish boxing and hand over her top and shorts, dripping in sweat, to the next girl to fight in. “That was only 2008,” she says today, the same year she won her silver at the World Championships. “It was shocking. You’d think it was the 1950s or something.”
Adams is also a keen actor, and subsidised herself by appearing as an extra in TV shows, including Waterloo Road and Coronation Street. She had hoped that women’s boxing would be introduced as an Olympic sport in 2008, but it wasn’t to be. In fact, 2008 proved a disastrous year. She slipped on a boxing bandage, fell downstairs and cracked a vertebra in her back. For five months, she had to wear a body cast moulded to the top half of her body, in agony, bored silly. She didn’t box for more than a year. But in August 2009, she was given the best incentive to get fit again when it was announced that women’s boxing was going to be included in the next Olympics.
And in 2012, she danced, jabbed and clubbed her way to gold in the flyweight final, in front of a crowd of 10,000, outclassing her great rival, China’s Ren Cancan (Cancan had beaten her in the finals of the 2010 and 2012 World Championships, as well as beating Esparza in the Olympic semi-final). It was one of the great moments of London 2012: the crowd roaring so loudly you couldn’t hear the commentary, Adams punching the air triumphantly at the end, history being made.
After her parents separated, Adams, her mother and brother became a close unit. 'We started laughing again'
Adams made it clear who the gold medal was for, as she does today. “It was all for my mum. I always promised her I was going to be the best.” So she was shocked when her father turned up in the family area afterwards. “I was a bit angry, because how many other tournaments have I been to? But this is the only one you’re going to be there for, because it’s the Olympics.”
Did she tell him to leave? “No, because I didn’t want to spoil the mood.” Had he supported her in any way since he left? “I got the occasional birthday or Christmas present. I stopped accepting them from him not long after 2012. I don’t have anything to do with him at all now.”
The turning point came, she says, when they had a phone conversation soon after her victory. “I said, ‘Just apologise for the way you were with my mum and with me.’ And he didn’t even admit anything that happened in the past, so I was like, ‘OK, that’s it, I’m done.’ I was angry. Really angry.’” That was their last contact? “Yes. Then he messaged me to say good luck for Rio. And it’s like, well what about the Commonwealth Games, the Europeans, the World Championships and all the other tournaments I’ve had for the past four years? What about good luck for the qualifiers?”
When I asked him to comment, Innocent Adams confirmed he had refused to apologise to his daughter and ex-wife, because he didn’t feel he had anything to apologise for. “The allegations made are completely false,” he said. “I have never been violent towards my ex-wife or Nicola. This is just a defamation of my good character.” Dee Adams stands by her daughter’s version of events.
Now Adams plans to become Britain’s first female professional world champion, boxing as “the Lioness”. She is managed by Frank Warren, who only three years ago said, “I don’t like women’s boxing. Never have, and never will.” Why has she agreed to be represented by such a dinosaur? Simple, she says. “He’s seen the light. He’s totally come round to us. I had the meeting with him, and he didn’t shy away from what he’d said in the past. He said, ‘Seeing you compete over the years has changed my mind.’ He thinks I could do really big things in the pros. He believes in what I want to do for women’s boxing – get it to the same level as the men’s. I’d love to be able to headline a show in Vegas at the MGM.” In other words, he’s a businessman who has finally realised you are marketable? She grins. “Exactly.”
Does she enjoy boxing as much as she used to? “Yes!” she says, and once she starts talking about the joy of boxing, it’s hard to stop her. “It’s one of those sports where you’re never the finished article. There’s always something more to learn; a new move – you could always be faster, stronger, more technical. That’s what I enjoy about it most. In boxing, it doesn’t matter if your speed goes a little bit. Take Canelo [Alvarez] and Floyd Mayweather when they fought. You had someone really young and strong, and you have someone who is older and a lot more skilful, and he just had the smarts to outmanoeuvre the younger guy.”
Does anything else give her a buzz like boxing? She looks at Esparza. “The only thing that gives me the same adrenaline is driving on the race tracks.” She’s not going to swap boxing for Formula One?
Esparza shakes her head furiously. “She’s not going to be a racing driver,” she says. Because it’s dangerous, or unrealistic? “Cos it’s dangerous. She’d do it and she’d probably be good at it, but she’s not going to do it. You can’t control a car like you think you can.” She looks at Adams. “We’ve talked about this.”
Adams is hooting with laughter. Esparza hasn’t finished. “She’s the kind of person who, when she has fun with something and she wants to do it, she does it. That’s what I like about her. But not that. I said to her, if you do that I can climb Mount Everest. One danger for another. And she said no to that.”
But surely boxing is dangerous? “There’s always a danger when you do sport,” Adams says, “and it’s whether you’re happy with the risks involved, and I’m happy. The first thing you learn is not to get hit.’’
I’d love to headline a show in Las Vegas. There’s always something to learn: you could always be faster, stronger
Now that she is boxing professionally, she is fighting for the first time without a headguard. Does she fear a punch in the head? “Nah, that’s boxing. You get in the shower, you’re going to get wet. And it’s a lot easier. The helmet blocks your peripheral vision. Now, I can see everything. Plus my head’s a much smaller target now.”
Adams and Esparza have been together for just over a year, and alternate between Adams’ home in Leeds and Esparza’s in San Francisco. Where does she prefer? “I like the weather.” In Leeds? “San Francisco! We train over there.” She thinks they might move there permanently.
I ask Adams if Esparza has changed her. “Yes, I’m happier – if that was possible.” She laughs. “I never thought you could be that happy being with someone. I just thought it was something you saw in movies. I thought, ‘Really? Nobody actually loves somebody like that – it’s just too far!’ But now I know the movies are true.”
Is it true that Esparza had only been out with men before? “Yes,” she says. “But Nicky just put them to shame.”
Would they ever fight each other? No way, they say simultaneously. They expected to in the past, when they fought in the same weight division – but now Esparza is a weight lower.
They talk about how different they are as boxers. “I’m very aggressive,” Esparza says. “There’s a lot going on all the time in my fights. She’s more of a counter-puncher, lets people come to her. I’m more: ‘I’m going to come to you.’”
Who would win in a fight?
“Don’t know,” they chorus.
I ask Adams what her ultimate ambition as a boxer is. “I want to be remembered as the greatest, just like my hero, Muhammad Ali.”
Has Esparza got anything to say about that? “About her being the best ever? I’m pretty sure I will be. I have to be. I don’t do this for no reason.” They look at each other and laugh.
“We do have a rivalry about who is going to be the best,” Adams says.
“It’s the elephant in the relationship,” Esparza says.
At 34, Adams thinks she is at her peak. There is so much going on in her life: a wedding to plan, the new book, an acting career to get off the ground. She knows she has got her work cut out if she is going to be remembered as the greatest female boxer ever. But then Adams has a knack of realising her dreams.
My new life started when I was 12, not long after my parents split up, because that’s when I discovered boxing. My mum went to her aerobics class, and Kurtis and I waited in the gym outside, which happened to be a boxing gym. I remember looking around and being so taken aback. The super-heavyweights were pounding away on bags, and people were sparring each other. It was a proper, old-school, Rocky-style gym, with steamed-up windows and peeling paint. I instantly fell in love with the place. I stood there and thought, ‘This must have been what it was like for Muhammad Ali when he was starting out.’
Ali had always been a big idol of mine, because I used to watch all of his fights on TV with my dad. But I hadn’t imagined for a minute it was something I might do one day.
That day, I had a choice of either sitting around or getting involved in the boxing. The coach, Steve Franks, asked if I fancied giving it a go, and I thought, ‘Why not?’ The first thing he got me to do was punching pads, and it just felt right and I wanted to do more. When I got home that night I couldn’t stop talking about it and begged my mum to take me back.
The gym ran a junior boxing club and an after-school club. The more I went, the more hooked I got. I felt like the people there understood me. Over the next couple of weeks I learned to shadow-box; I soon perfected my stance and started learning to jab. I didn’t think about the fact that it was such a male environment and I was this young girl. Steve said, really early on, that the gym wasn’t male or female – it was just a boxing gym. He had one rule and that was that we all listened to him. One day he took my mum aside and told her he thought I had real potential.
My first competitive match took place in a working men’s club in Leeds when I was 13
When I turned 13, Mum started letting me go to the gym on my own. I had to spar with guys a lot and quite often I gave them a good run for their money. My brother started boxing a bit as well and I used to spar with him sometimes, which I loved. He thought he could beat me: there was no way.
None of my female friends boxed, but I soon made friends at the gym. I didn’t see it as a big deal, and none of my mates, male or female, did, either. Maybe if I’d started later it would have seemed strange, but at 12 you don’t analyse these things. You follow your heart.
My first competitive match took place in a working men’s club in Leeds when I was 13. My family came to watch me and I was so excited I kept peeping through the curtains to look at the audience. Steve wanted me to conserve my energy for the match, but I just wanted to get out into the ring and show people what I could do. I chose Ini Kamoze’s Here Comes the Hotstepper to walk out to.
I’d been watching a lot of Prince Naseem’s fights, so when I stepped into the ring I started doing his moves, like the shuffle, and engaging with the audience. Putting on a show has been really important to me since day one, because boxing should be about entertainment as much as everything else. I wasn’t scared about getting hit because I’d been boxing for a year and I knew that, if it did happen, I’d take it all in my stride.
I think that was the first time most of the people in the club had seen a girl box, and I imagined they would all carry on drinking their pints and chatting but, amazingly, they all paid attention. I was pleasantly surprised. The match took place before the smoking ban came in and the entire room was thick with smoke. I remember going back to the corner at the end of the first and second rounds. My lungs were on fire. Steve told me stories about how, when he boxed as a youngster, even the coach was allowed to smoke. He’d be trying to get his breath back in the middle of a match and his coach would be blowing smoke in his face. Can you imagine? The smoking ban is one of the best things that has ever happened, in my opinion.
I won the match and, that was the moment I decided that, one day, I was going to be an Olympic champion. When I used to tell people I was going to win gold, they’d laugh at me, but I didn’t care. One day, I was going to prove them all wrong.
• This is an edited extract from Believe, by Nicola Adams, published on 18 May by Viking at £14.99. To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.
The Western Bulldogs scored a stunning five-point, come-from-behind, win to hand Richmond their second defeat of the AFL season. The Tigers led by a game-high 32 points early in the second quarter at Etihad Stadium, but couldn’t hold off the reigning premiers who ground out an 11.14 (80) to 11.9 (75) win in front of 46,387 fans.
The Bulldogs hit the front for the first time in the match when Clay Smith kicked his fourth goal 17 minutes into the final term.
Jack Riewoldt kicked his 500th career goal early in the game and booted his fourth to get the Tigers within four points as the clock ticked down. Richmond went inside attacking 50 in the last minute of the pulsating contest but Jayden Short was penalised for a deliberate out of bounds, allowing the Bulldogs to take possession and hang on for the win.
As they have on several occasions this season, the Dogs found a way to win without playing their best football.
Dustin Martin, who finished with 28 possessions and two goals, led the way for a Richmond side that had all the momentum early. Tigers debutant Ivan Soldo had 42 hitouts and held sway early over a Bulldogs ruck rotation of Tom Boyd, Lin Jong and Josh Dunkley. However, Boyd was a key factor in the third term as the Dogs clawed their way back.
Marcus Bontempelli, Luke Dahlhaus and Jack Macrae imposed their will on the match in the third term to help slice Richmond’s lead to just two points at the three-quarter time and set up the thrilling finale.
Both sides suffered casualties in the physical encounter. Richmond’s Nick Vlastuin departed in the second quarter with a shoulder injury, while Bulldogs duo Jake Stringer (knee) and Dunkley (shoulder) left the game in the third and last quarters respectively.
Earlier on Saturday, Carlton crashed Collingwood’s 125th anniversary party, downing their old foes by 23 points in a dominant display at the MCG. The comprehensive 12.7 (79) to 8.8 (56) victory was their third from as many games.
The Blues were by far the more polished side in front of a bumper 70,279 crowd on Saturday. Carlton’s top draft pick Sam Petrevski-Seton delivered the best performance of his brief career, showing remarkable composure and creativity to kick two goals and deliver 22 disposals in slippery conditions. Skipper Marc Murphy also led from the front with 30 touches, while Levi Casboult booted two majors and Kade Simpson and Sam Docherty were rock-solid down back.
Jamie Elliott led the Magpies with three goals but the Magpies were soundly beaten in the midfield, with skipper Scott Pendlebury and the returning Jordan De Goey among their few contributors. So impressive during last week’s win over Geelong, the Pies reverted to form with a dismal performance which will leave coach Nathan Buckley facing renewed scrutiny. It was the same old issues for Buckley’s men - dreadful ball movement, ineffective forward entries and a lack of composure under pressure.
The Blues led by three goals at half-time and built their lead after the break as Collingwood - playing their third game in 12 days and sorely missing Daniel Wells after his late withdrawal - continued to butcher the ball. Consecutive goals to Elliott cut the deficit to 23 points at three-quarter-time, only for Dale Thomas to rub salt in the Magpies’ wounds with a fine running goal against his old team.
The loss is bound to raise further questions about Collingwood’s forward structure - young tall Darcy Moore only had one shot at goal, which he converted midway through the final quarter. The Pies have just two wins from their first seven games and their hopes of making the finals - which Buckley last year predicted would need to happen for him to save his job - are slipping away fast.
Later on Saturday night, Gold Coast’s quiet achievers outshone the stars of the AFL in the Suns’ 18.16 (124) to 15.9 (99) win over Geelong at Metricon Stadium.
The best midfielders of the competition were on show on Saturday night, with Gary Ablett, Patrick Dangerfield and Joel Selwood all meeting in the middle of the park. Ablett continued his strong form, booting a sensational, swirling goal from just inside 50 on the right hand side in the first quarter. The dual Brownlow Medallist did stop a few hearts when he ran off clutching his shoulder late in the second quarter. The former Cat returned on the field but looked hampered for the remainder of the match.
Jarrod Harbrow was also good for the Suns, recording 30 disposals, nine intercept possessions and eight contested possessions. David Swallow also showed the talent which earned him the no. 1 draft pick in 2010. The West Australian’s career has been hampered by injury but if his tenacity has provided inspiration for his teammates off the field, his 20 contested possessions proved enough inspiration on it. Elsewhere, Gold Coast co-captain Tom Lynch ran rampant, with the tall forward kicking three goals, two goal assists and 22 disposals.
Geelong’s star duo of Dangerfield and Selwood were kept under raps by a combative Gold Coast midfield. The Cats started the match strongly, managing 10 inside 50s in the first 10 minutes, but they were undone by poor finishing. They finished with 48 inside 50s against the Gold Coast’s 71.
Sam Menegola fought hard to keep Geelong in the game with two goals and 22 disposals.
Earlier on Saturday at Adelaide Oval, West Coast went some way towards changing its reputation as flat track bullies after an narrow 10-point victory against Port Adelaide. The Eagles let slip a 32-point lead, but managed to hold on for a 15.7 (97) to 12.15 (87) win in front of a crowd of 38,333.
Port Adelaide did most of the attacking in the final term and outscored the visitors five goals to three, but the home side lacked composure as it reverted back to its way of 2016 with poor entry inside 50.
The Eagles led midway through the third term thanks to four unanswered goals - all claimed from centre-bounce clearances. But the Power fought back and managed to cut it to 21 points at the final break. West Coast absorbed the pressure in the final quarter and held on to prevail.
Chad Wingard, Brad Ebert and Jared Polec battled hard for the Power, but the side’s failure to use the ball with precision and capitalise when in attack proved costly. Charlie Dixon was also strong for the Power and finished with four goals, 22 disposals and 10 marks.
Port dominated various stages of the third term, but failed to reap the reward for their effort, kicking three consecutive points before Charlie Dixon managed to drill the ball home after scooping on a loose ball from a contest. Dixon was vital to the home side’s spirited attempt at a comeback in the final term and his third goal - a massive set-shot conversion from the boundary line - helped cut the Eagles’ buffer to just 14 points. Despite the Power’s desperation, errors with its disposal cost it in the end and the Eagles’ solid record in Adelaide remained intact.
Earlier on Saturday in Tasmania, Jarrad Waite made a thumping return for North Melbourne, the powerful forward booting six goals to help seal a 59-point win and end Adelaide’s unbeaten start in the AFL. The Kangaroos dominated play from the opening siren, keeping the Crows scoreless in the first quarter and maintaining their lead at every break in the 22.13 (145) to 13.8 (86) victory at Blundstone Arena.
It was Waite’s first game since round one when he suffered a shoulder injury, but there were no signs of the ailment as the veteran led his team on a first-quarter rampage in Hobart. At the first break the Roos had amassed 10 goals - three courtesy of Waite - and boasted a 64-0 lead against the competition leaders.
In light drizzle the Crows returned inspired for the second term and quickly added to the scoreboard, including Eddie Betts’ much-anticipated 500th goal. But the forward was flattened on the goal line by North’s Scott Thompson giving Betts a second kick at goal to immediately move to 501 goals.
Waite was North’s leading goal scorer, also finishing with 22 disposals. Ben Brown booted three goals for the Roos. Betts’ set of three was the best for the Crows.
In bad news for North, forward Brown left the ground midway through the first quarter with a suspected dislocated shoulder. He came back early in the second term, with strapping visible at the top of his left arm, but looked uncomfortable. Minutes before half-time Brown had a clear shot at goal from about 25 metres but hesitated and managed only a minor score. He improved later in the game, finding the middle of the tall posts from 50 metres in the final quarter.
Before the game started Corey Wagner was called in for North to replace Taylor Garner who was suffering hamstring soreness. Playing his first game for the season, midfielder Wagner left the ground after just 14 minutes with an ankle complaint and did not return.
The Crows lost Tom Lynch just before half time, concussed after a clash with Waite.
The result is Adelaide’s first loss for the season and only North’s second win from seven rounds.
Eliud Kipchoge is unlikely to make another dedicated assault on the two-hour marathon barrier in the foreseeable future despite coming within 26 seconds in Italy on Saturday of achieving a feat many thought impossible. The 32-year-old Olympic champion produced a bravura display of time-trial running to finish in two hours and 25 seconds – well inside the official world record of 2:02:57 set by Dennis Kimetto in 2014.
However, his time will not enter the record books because he was helped by a phalanx of 30 elite pacers, who subbed in and out of the race, which is against the official rules of the sport’s governing body, the International Association of Athletics Federations.
While there will be an obvious temptation for Nike – which spent millions on marketing the attempt and the technology behind it – to try again, they now have other priorities. Matt Nurse, vice-president of the Nike sport research lab, told the Observer: “This is one particular endeavour where we have learned an awful lot about performance running, but another attempt is probably not what some other people [in our organisation] want to do.
“We are already discussing other moonshots, perhaps related to female athletes or average athletes. So it’s not one and done, it just may take a different form next time.”
Kipchoge said he was happy with his performance despite knowing that if he had run a one second a mile faster it would have carried him under two hours. “This journey has been a long one,” he said softly. “It has been hard. It has taken seven good months of preparation and dedication but I am happy to run a marathon in just over two hours.”
“We are going up the tree,” he added. “I have lifted a branch and I am going on to the next one. This is not the end of the attempt of runners on two hours.”
The Kenyan did not talk about his next target, but it is likely that he will attempt to break Kimetto’s record at a big city marathon in the autumn. On this evidence he is a near certainty.
It was still dark when Kipchoge – along with Zersenay Tadese, the half-marathon world-record holder, and Lelisa Desisa, a double Boston Marathon winner – stepped on to the Monza Formula One circuit shortly before 5.45am local time. Their target was to run each mile in an average of four minutes and 34 seconds – seven seconds a mile quicker than Kimetto had managed in Berlin.
But this was to be no ordinary attempt. With so much Nike money at stake, some of the usual rules had been bent to tilt the odds in the athletes’ favour. The race was scheduled for a time where the temperature was around 10C, just about perfect for marathon running, while the flat course ensured fewer bends than big city marathon courses.
Some of the gains were more major than marginal. At the start the three athletes were immediately joined by six pacers, who adopted an arrowhead formation behind a Tesla electric car with a giant clock timer on it. Wind tunnel studies show that this formation would help them as it saves energy. Running so close to the car would have provided far greater assistance still.
Kipchoge was also using a new carbohydrate-rich sports drink, delivered by helpers on mopeds so he did not have to slow down – another practice not allowed in major marathons.
Then there was the use of Nike’s Zoom Vaporfly Elite shoes, which some have suggested should be illegal because they contain a special curved plate that allows runners to roll through instead of bending toes and losing energy.
Nike has made extraordinary claims for the footwear, claiming a 4% improvement in running economy, and by happy coincidence a version of the shoes will be available in shops from next month.
Despite all this help, breaking two hours was still a massive undertaking. That much became clear after 15km (9.3 miles), when Desisa started to fall back. Just before the halfway mark, Tadese found he could not handle the pace either, which meant it was all down to Kipchoge.
The Kenyan is rumoured to have been paid up to $1m (£770,000) to skip the London Marathon and commit himself to the attempt, with another big bonus to follow if he could make history. Even though he was playing for high stakes, he still looked serene and relaxed until well into the second half of the race. Having reached halfway in 59:58, and still on course after 30km (18.6 miles), he eventually began to grind and grimace. Soon he was five seconds down. Then 10. Then 15. As a young athlete, he was fast enough to run a 3:50 mile, and in the final stages he tried to push again but there was nothing left.
Speaking before the attempt, Andrew Jones, professor of physiology at Exeter University who advised the runners on their training and nutrition programmes, told the Observer: “The variety of innovations and interventions we’ve put in place is worth a minimum of 90 seconds and a maximum of three minutes.”
Jones predicted a sub two-hour marathon was now firmly in sight. “I do believe that if you had all of the best runners in the world in the same race in perfect conditions, you could see a sub two-hour marathon and what we’ve been implementing here might get people working together to achieve that goal.”
The event may have had an artificial air given Nike had set it up as part lab test, part two-hour advertorial for its new shoes, but that should not eclipse the fact that this was one of the most remarkable and determined displays of distance running ever seen. Yes, Kipchoge fell short, but his was the most glorious of failures.
The NRL has been plunged into a cocaine scandal during its representative round, with a club chairman and three players accused of being involved in three separate incidents. Cronulla chairman Damian Keogh has stood down after his arrest on Friday night for alleged drug possession, while Kiwi captain Jesse Bromwich and teammate Kevin Proctor were also reported for allegedly consuming the substance in Canberra after their Test loss to Australia.
The incident involving Bromwich and Proctor has been reported to the NRL Integrity Unit by The New Zealand Rugby League. They come after Sydney Roosters centre Shaun Kenny-Dowall was also charged over allegations of drug possession in Sydney on Thursday night, also believed to have involved cocaine.
Keogh was arrested in Bourke Street, Woolloomooloo on Friday night. A small resealable bag containing a quantity of white powder believed to be cocaine was allegedly found during the search. He is due to face Downing Centre Local Court on June 30, and was in distressed state on Saturday morning, according to Cronulla chief executive Lyall Gorman.
“He’s very distressed and disappointed about potential outcomes on the game and the club,” said Gorman.
Gorman was also forced to defend allegations of a drug problem at the club after star fullback Ben Barba also departed at the end of last season after testing positive for a second time to cocaine.
“I don’t believe it is endemic at all,” Gorman said.
“If something like these allegations or other behavioural issues are endemic, you don’t achieve what our club has achieved over the past two-and-a-half years on and off the field.”
Meanwhile Bromwich and Proctor’s names were reportedly mentioned in a court case in Canberra on Saturday morning, according to the ABC. Police allege that CCTV footage shows a man preparing a white powder on his phone, before handing it to a pair of men who consumed it outside a Canberra night spot.
No charges have been laid against either player.
The NRL are yet to comment on the New Zealand matter, but chief executive Todd Greenberg said on Saturday they are waiting on further information from the Sharks on Keogh.
“We are aware of an incident which involves the Sharks chairman,” NRL chief executive Todd Greenberg said.
“We are awaiting further details from the Sharks about what has occurred.”
Keogh, a former Australian basketball star who made three Olympic Games teams, took over at the Sharks during the supplements scandal in 2013. He was voted onto the board after the infamous ASADA press conference and helped rebuild the struggling club from wooden spooners to premiership winners last season.
I took up running in my late 30s, to get fit. I soon joined a club and loved getting out and running with other people. In my 40th year, I took on the Plymouth half-marathon and really enjoyed seeing how far I could push myself.
The following year, I was halfway through training to run it again when I developed a chest infection, which progressed into necrotising fasciitis – a flesh-eating bug that started in my right calf, destroying all the healthy tissue. I was in intensive care for 11 days and not expected to survive. My leg was amputated above the knee.
I thought my life was over, and certainly didn’t think I’d run again. My muscles had deteriorated to the extent that I couldn’t even lift a spoon to my mouth. But once I got out of hospital and started to regain my strength, I realised I could do things. A month later, I was back in the gym, though I could use the exercise bike for only about a minute and a half before I was exhausted. It was like starting over. But I built my fitness up and was eventually fitted with a prosthetic leg.
Now my running leg is a blade. The first time I saw it, it looked terrifying. I’d seen Paralympians using them, but it took a lot of confidence to trust that it wasn’t going to collapse under me. You don’t actually feel anything as you run, other than a bit of pressure from the foot landing on the ground. You need good core strength to stay balanced and upright, and it takes about 70% more energy to run as an above-the-knee amputee as I have to swing my stump forward to move the whole leg.
But it’s all worth it. Running keeps me fit and healthy, and I love being able to just go – get outside, see the scenery. A few months ago I ran the Plymouth 10k – my first 10k since becoming an amputee runner. A couple of years ago that would have been unthinkable. I’m so lucky I can run and will never take for granted what I’ve achieved.
How often do you run? Two or three times a week – I get a lot of blistering and rubbing on my stump, so have to allow time for my skin to heal.Favourite route? In the woods near home, sticking to cycle paths as they have fewer things I could trip over.Secret weapon? Beetroot juice.
1 If you’re an amputee and want to start running, find a coach who has experience of working with disabled athletes. Make sure they take the time to understand your particular strengths and weaknesses.
2 You may need to protect your skin. I stick four blister plasters on my stump – one on top of the other – where the rubbing occurs.
3 Always have a goal, but be realistic. If you’re starting with a disability, forget what you used to be able to do – you’re starting from scratch. Set yourself an achievable goal, then once you’ve done it, set the next one.
4 I was really proud to be asked to take part in the This Girl Can campaign, which is about the fact that it doesn’t matter what you look like or what your capability is, there’s an activity out there for everybody. It doesn’t matter how good you are, either, as long as you enjoy it. Just have a go.
5 Age is no barrier to taking up exercise. If you start later in life, it’ll take a bit longer to get used to it, but in the long term, being physically active will keep you feeling younger and more energetic.
Australian Olympic Committee president John Coates, who been re-elected for another term, concedes the AOC’s brand has been damaged by the bitterness of the election campaign but is confident it can be fixed.
Coates survived a challenge from newcomer Danni Roche and ending a bruising six-week election campaign.
He won the secret ballot by a significant margin, securing 58 votes to Roche’s 35. The vote was held at the AOC’s general meeting in Sydney on Saturday morning.
The strength of his challenger’s campaign will put pressure on Coates to change the way the AOC is run. Roche had promised to drive reforms to the AOC’s culture and governance, while slashing overheads and the president’s exorbitant salary to reinvest into sports development.
Coates’ win allows him to continue his 27-year tenure at the top of the Olympic movement.
Speaking after the vote, Coates conceded the AOC’s brand had been damaged by the bitter campaign. But he said that damage was “easily repairable” and spoke of the sponsors the AOC had recently attracted.
“Things are said and done in an election campaign ... my position is that we just move on, I’m not going back over what happened in this campaign,” he said.
He said the allegations that emerged of bullying and a flawed AOC culture were to be expected during a contested election campaign.
“This was an electoral campaign, an electoral campaign, and I put those things beside me, and I just move on,” he said.
Coates confirmed that a cultural review would be conducted, overseen by the chief executive, Matt Carroll. Existing bullying complaints would be independently investigated, he said, as would any others that were raised formally.
Coates’ next term, which will take him to the Tokyo Games in 2020, will be his last.
He said he was working on a transition plan, and would begin giving several candidates experience and exposure. He has previously said he would cede power and duties to Carroll, but did not give any timeline for that process on Saturday.
The focus will now turn to the impact his re-election will have on the already strained relationship with the government’s sports funding arm, the Australian Sports Commission (ASC). Coates and the ASC chair, John Wylie, have publicly fallen out, and Coates has described Roche, an ASC board member, as Wylie’s “puppet”.
Coates said he would work to repair the fractured relationship with the ASC.
“John [Wylie] and I have both been involved in business, we’ve both had our victories and our defeats. I made it quite clear that I will be ringing him,” Coates said.
He also defended sending out texts to delegates before the various voting rounds in Saturday’s meeting, instructing them how to vote for his picks for vice-presidents and executive members.
Asked whether the campaign had taken its toll personally, Coates said he would need to take time to reflect on that.
“It’s been an election campaign, and the election campaign has been vigorous,” he said.
Coates ran his campaign on the themes of continuity, stability, and independence of government. He said he was the only one with the ability and experience to continue to grow the AOC’s finances and advance its interests on the global stage.
Under his watch, the $88m the organisation received after the Sydney Olympics has grown 8% a year, and its net assets have grown from $109m in 2001 to $148.9m, all while pumping money back into sports development.
Coates’ re-election will also see him stay on as vice-president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), a role that gives Australia added clout abroad.
His win was helped by the support of Athletics Australia, the Athletes’ Commission, the winter sporting bodies, and others.
Roche’s belief that a mood for change existed across Australia’s sporting bodies appears to have been misplaced. She had pledged to bring transparency to the organisation, reduce the president’s salary from $700,000 to $100,000, improve its handling of bullying complaints, and foster a closer relationship between the AOC and ASC.
Speaking after the vote, Roche said the six-week campaign was a “pivotal moment in Australian sport”, regardless of her loss.
She congratulated Coates, but said the ballot had shown a strong mood for change across the Olympic sporting bodies. Individual sports now felt empowered to speak out about the decisions that shaped their future, she said.
“We have started a much-needed conversation about the future of Australian sport, and the responsibility the Australian Olympic committee has in supporting its member sports and athletes,” Roche said.
“There is certainly a strong desire for change. There is a desire for the AOC to place a greater focus on providing for their sports and athletes and for it to have a more collaborative relationship with the national federations and the Australian sports commission.”
The Athletes commission chair and champion pole vaulter Steve Hooker said his organisation’s support for Coates was conditional on changes in the AOC.
“We’re happy that John is in, but also really pleased with Danni’s platform ... and the conversations that she’s started,” Hooker said.
“This campaign has been so divisive because so many people are passionate about it. Certainly in our conversations with John, he understands that things have to change,” he said.
The commission’s deputy chair and rowing champion Kim Brennan said the bullying allegations raised during the campaign needed to be addressed. Brennan said she wanted to see Coates begin a smooth transition process out of the presidency.
“What we heard loud and clear is that people want change,” she said.
“We heard from so many athletes, past and present, that the athletes want a voice, and we want to make sure that voice is heard.”
The announcement of the result of the vote was met with loud applause from the delegates.
The body that nominated Roche, Hockey Australia, said Coates must now bring transparency and good governance to the AOC.
It’s president, Melanie Woosnam, said the decision to put Roche forward was not done lightly.
“We have confidence that our calls for a fresh approach have been heard and look forward to being part of that process in partnership with the AOC, Australian Sports Commission and the leadership of both organisations to progress the Australian Olympic movement for the benefit of Australian sport and athletes,” Woosnam said.







Lewis Hamilton has increased his wealth by more than £25m over the past year to take his total fortune to £131m and claim the title of the richest sportsperson in the UK.
Hamilton, 32, the three-time FIA Formula One world champion, ranks ahead of Manchester United’s Zlatan Ibrahimovic and Wayne Rooney in this year’s Sunday Times rich list. He took the top spot thanks to his driving fees from Mercedes and a string of lucrative sponsorship deals including with L’Oréal, IWC watches and Bombardier, which supplies the private jet he uses to travel the world to races.
Hamilton, who moved to the tax haven of Monaco from Switzerland, another tax-light jurisdiction, in 2012, has said he does pay tax in the UK. “What people don’t realise is that I pay tax here, but I don’t earn all my money here. I race in 19 different countries, so I earn my money in 20 different places and I pay tax in several different places, and I pay a lot here as well,” he told the Sunday Times Style magazine. “I am contributing to the country and, not only that, I help keep a team of more than 1,000 people employed. I am part of a much bigger picture.”
Hamilton could be in line for an even bigger pay package this year as a bonus clause in his F1 contract could see his driving fees from Mercedes lifted to £33m if he secures his fourth drivers title. He is currently second in the championship behind Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel.
Rooney is no longer the richest Manchester United player, having been leapfrogged by Ibrahimovic, whose wealth is estimated at £110m.
The 35-year-old Swedish international, who is currently injured, has commanded huge wages for a decade or more in a career taking in Paris Saint-Germain, AC Milan, Barcelona, Inter Milan – and now Manchester United. On top of his £220,000-a-week salary at Old Trafford, he also benefits from a long-term endorsement deal with Nike and has trademarked his first name with the Swedish Patent and Registration Office. It is the first time he has been included in the list, as he joined Manchester United this season.
Rooney took third place in the annual list with a £93m fortune, up £11m on last year.
The racing driver Jenson Button, who currently does not have a permanent team place and also lives in Monaco, is fourth on the list with £86m, up £9m in the last 12 months.
Rory McIlroy and Andy Murray also made the top 10 along with two football managers: Manchester United’s Jose Mourinho and Manchester City’s Pep Guardiola. Mourinho’s wealth, boosted by sponsorships and commercial deals with brands including Heineken, Hublot watches, Jaguar, BT Sport and Adidas, is reckoned to be £61m.
Real Madrid’s Welsh star Gareth Bale has a total fortune estimated at £54m – up £20m in the last 12 months, while the Sudanese-British NBA star Luol Deng is tied with Guardiola at the bottom of the top 10, each with £50m.
There were no female sports stars in the top 10.
The Turnbull government will launch a crackdown on gambling advertising on live sporting coverage as part of a package of sweeping media changes.
“Parents around Australia will be delighted when they know that during football matches, cricket matches and live sporting events before 8.30pm, there will be no more gambling ads,” Turnbull told reporters in New York before leaving the US to return to Australia before Tuesday’s budget.
The communications minister, senator Mitch Fifield, said the new restriction would ban gambling ads from five minutes before the commencement of play until five minutes after the conclusion of play or 8.30pm, whichever came sooner.
“These things are also a balance between recognising that commercial media need to have sources of revenue but at the same time we need to protect families and children,” he said.
The existing exemptions for advertising that covers the racing industry and lotteries will remain.
The anti-gambling campaigner and Senate crossbencher Nick Xenophon said the measure was a good first step but didn’t go far enough.
“It’s not the end of the story in terms of gambling reform,” he said on Saturday.
The independent MP Andrew Wilkie said gambling ads in sports broadcasts during G-rated viewing periods were normalising gambling for children and had to stop.
“We know that children are especially susceptible to advertising and hero worship and that gambling advertising has a real and measurable impact on the children who are subjected to it,” Wilkie said.
Struggling television broadcasters are celebrating after securing some financial relief.
They have had their broadcasting licence fees and datacasting charges abolished, which saves $130m but instead they will pay new annual spectrum fees estimated to raise about $40m.
Fifield said licence fees, which were revenue based, were introduced when broadcasters could generate significant profits due to their exclusive access to mass audiences.
“In today’s media environment, licence fees are a relic of a bygone age of regulation,” he said.
The Nine chief executive, Hugh Marks, urged the parliament to pass the media reform package in its entirety.
The Seven West Media chairman, Kerry Stokes, also backed the changes.
“It will give us a real opportunity to compete in the new media environment,” he said.
The package includes changes to Australia’s anti-siphoning regime to reduce the size of the list.
The scheme stops pay TV broadcasters from buying the rights to sports events on the anti-siphoning list before free-to-air broadcasters have the opportunity to buy the rights.
The government will spend $30m over four years to encourage subscription television to increase coverage of women’s sport and niche sports.
Senator Fifield confirmed the government would push ahead with plans to scrap the two-out-of-three rule that prevented a company controlling more than two of three radio, television and newspapers in an area.
It will also aim to axe the rule that prohibits a proprietor from controlling a TV licence that reaches more than 75% of the population.
Children’s and Australian content will undergo a review too.
The opposition is waiting to see the detail on the full package before it announces whether it will support it.
“We want to see a diversity of voices in the Australian media and we know the economics of journalism have changed a great deal,” the Labor deputy leader, Tanya Plibersek, told reporters.
The Cronulla Sharks chairman, Damian Keogh, has reportedly handed in his resignation after being arrested in Sydney for allegedly being in possession of a drug, thought to be cocaine.
Keogh was forced to stand down from his role at the Sharks following the Friday night incident, the Daily Telegraph reported.
Police say they searched a 55-year-old man at a licensed premises on Bourke Street in Woolloomooloo about 7.50pm on Friday.
A small resealable bag containing a quantity of white powder believed to be cocaine was allegedly found during the search.
The man has been arrested and issued with a field court attendance notice for possessing a prohibited drug.
He is due to face Downing Centre Local Court on 30 June.
The club released a statement saying Keogh had stepped aside from his role so he could address allegations of possession of an illegal substance.
“Given the challenging personal nature of this matter, Damian is not currently available for comment,” the statement said.
The latest NRL scandal comes a day after Sydney Roosters NRL star Shaun Kenny-Dowall was charged with drug possession after he was allegedly caught with just under half a gram of cocaine at a Sydney nightclub.
The NRL says it is waiting to hear the details involving Keogh.
“We are aware of an incident which involves the Sharks chairman,” NRL chief executive Todd Greenberg said on Saturday.
“We are awaiting further details from the Sharks about what has occurred.”
Keogh, a former Australian basketball star who made three Olympic Games teams, took over at the Sharks during the supplements scandal in 2013.
He took the reins in the aftermath of the controversy, which saw coach Shane Flanagan suspended for a season and 17 former and current players banned.
Keogh helped rebuild the struggling club from wooden spooners to premiership winners last season when they beat Melbourne 14-12 in the grand final.
But the allegations of cocaine possession will spell an ignominious exit.
When a man is tired of London, well, there’s probably a fair chance he is a Tottenham fan in early May. On a chilly, noisy night inside the London Stadium Spurs entered this derby game hoping to apply pressure to Chelsea’s shoulder but knowing they could forfeit the league title, too, by losing the game.
And so it came to pass: another boisterous night in May, another wild, fingernail-gnawing London derby defeat. Almost exactly a year ago a wild draw at Chelsea had seen Spurs give up the ghost on last season’s title challenge. Here the only goal of a bitty game decorated with heavy tackles came from Manuel Lanzini after 65 minutes. Defeat means Chelsea can win the title this time next week with victories against Middlesbrough and West Brom. The race has tipped, inexorably, towards Antonio Conte’s side.
It has been a generally London-centred affair for Mauricio Pochettino’s young team over the last two seasons. Arsenal were hauled in last weekend, always a significant marker. Indeed, Tottenham were crowned before this game as kings of London by one newspaper, a status earnt by their fine record in derby matches, although, sadly for their fans, not by actually topping the table ahead of Chelsea at any point.
With West Ham still paddling near the bottom, Spurs were expected to muscle their way through this match en route to more urgent engagements. Somehow it never quite looked like happening as West Ham played well throughout, solid and spiky in deep defence and finding unexpected space in Tottenham’s backline.
It made for an engrossing spectacle as the minutes ticked away. This was a violent game too. Kyle Walker was booked early on for a stamp-tackle. Mark Noble was booked for a hack at Eric Dier’s shins that might have been a red. Hugo Lloris, an unlikely enforcer, went through Lanzini on the edge of the box but received the now traditional goalkeeper’s pardon. Cheikhou Kouyaté was sent sprawling among the rolls of loose green matting behind the goal by his own foul on Walker.
It was all a vigorous contrast with the oddly empty atmosphere before kick-off around this bizarro Bladerunner-ish stadium, beamed down into East London like a visitation from some future consumer dystopia. Inside, however, West Ham’s fans can still generate a great wave of noise, as they did after half-time as the game became bruising and bitty. Dele Alli, so incisive against Arsenal, was quiet. Son Heung-min came closest with a low shot from the right that Adrián palmed away.
Somehow a goal always seemed to be coming at the other end. The decisive move came down the left, Aaron Cresswell making ground and crossing. The ball bobbled back to Lanzini, who lashed it into the corner, capping an excellent, scuttling game. Eight of the Argentinian’s last 10 goals have come in London derbies.
At the final whistle this lopsided spaceship of a stadium erupted with West Ham joy, London voices – but not Spurs ones – raised again at the sharp end of things. Pochettino was a little flat but quietly magnanimous. What exactly to take from here?
Some will suggest this was collective failure of will, a bottle job, but that seems ridiculously harsh. Spurs were excellent when it mattered against Arsenal five days ago. This is a young team. They will be back. Although there are still some obvious areas to improve.
If Son caught the eye with his zippy movement, he also highlighted Spurs’ one real failing: a lack of extreme speed in attack, a sameness to their movements. Moussa Sissoko might have addressed this, were he not a disappointing footballer more given to mooching around looking splendid than applying his athleticism to the cause.
Sissoko also flags up another slight area of slackness. Poor recruitment last summer did not help. Vincent Janssen is not of the necessary standard yet. One does wonder how useful Jermain Defoe might have been as a back-up this season, how many extra points he might have dredged up, even if as a starter it is hard to imagine a less obviously Poch-style player.
Even here Christian Eriksen offered some hope with a decent performance against the head, including the pass of the first half from just beyond the centre circle, clipping the ball through the tiniest of channels to set Harry Kane away.
Eriksen has had more touches than any other attacking player in the Premier League this season and is up there with Gylfi Sigurdsson and Alexis Sánchez for the title of most productive attacking midfielder in the division. Again, though, it is an area of strength Spurs could look to strengthen even further, if only to give another dimension to a team that can settle into its rhythms and wear opponents down at home but which is less of a steamrollering force away.
At which point enter the final area of concern. Defeat at this misshapen cantilevered bowl, a Penrose stairs stadium where everything is at the wrong angle, where one half-expects to look down and see the players running straight up into the air, or at a 45-degree angle to the sky, came with an odd sense of foreboding
Who knows, a season at Wembley, away from the comfort of White Hart Lane’s tight angles, might even be a good thing, drawing other gears from this evolving team. For now Spurs can still take second place in the league and above all a sense of wider progress from another season of graft and growth.
Few things make one look dafter than opposing an unbeaten colt about whom Aidan O’Brien has been raving, only to see it scoot home five lengths ahead of toiling rivals with Ryan Moore looking disdainfully back under his armpit.
That said, the 6-4 about Churchill in today’s 2,000 Guineas looks to be for the birds, in view of three of his rivals having shown quite strong form in the past month.
Churchill, by contrast, has been absent since October and, while many Guineas winners have followed a similar path, there is a suspicion in this case that precocity accounted for much of Churchill’s achievements last year. His dam, after all, was a speedster whose last win came in the August of her juvenile year.
Barney Roy (3.35) was so impressive in winning the Greenham that it is reasonable to believe he might be able to pound his way past the favourite in the last 100 yards. That was only his second start and he showed an enormous stride when asked to win his race in the last quarter-mile. Another furlong and a stronger pace should be excellent news for Richard Hannon’s colt.
Al Wukair is worth lots of respect but will need to avoid blowing the start, as he has done more than once. Top Score is an interesting place prospect at huge odds, as it would not be surprising for one of the pacemakers to keep plugging away on this ground.
1.50 Newmarket Lightly raced, Next Stage was free in the early stages here last month, his first outing since June. But he stayed on like a good ’un and will surely still be on a beatable mark after only a 6lb rise. Ballet Concerto is the one to fear.
2.05 Goodwood On a sixth start of the year Dubka may have had enough for the time being when disappointing at Bath in October. She had been most progressive to that point and Sir Michael Stoute can be expected to get more out of her this term. She is preferred to Ajman Princess, who looks flattered by her Ribblesdale second.
2.20 Newmarket 2016 was unproductive for Muthmir but he loves a fast surface and might bounce off this ground. He should be much sharper for his Bath reappearance. Profitable might prefer an easier surface but Kachy could be overpriced.
2.40 Goodwood Unlucky when last seen in September and since gelded, Zwayyan should have more to offer this year, having scored twice as a three-year-old. William Haggas’s chestnut is well drawn for this return to action.
2.55 Newmarket This race has no great record of female success but Seventh Heaven looks the standout talent. A fine second to Jack Hobbs in Dubai, she will be better suited by this sounder surface and her win over Found in the Yorkshire Oaks would make her interesting in any company.
Newmarket 1.50 Next Stage 2.20 Muthmir 2.55 Seventh Heaven 3.35 Barney Roy (nap) 4.10 Queen In Waiting 4.45 Khalidi 5.20 Andok
Goodwood 1.35 Onorina 2.05 Dubka 2.40 Zwayyan 3.15 Stepper Point 3.50 Laugh Aloud 4.25 Patchwork 5.00 Dominating 5.30 Alexander M
Thirsk 1.55 Super Major 2.30 Wilde Extravagance 3.05 Savannah’s Dream 3.40 Spring Offensive 4.15 Carlton Frankie 4.50 Key Bid 5.25 Excessable
Uttoxeter 1.40 Le Coeur Net 2.10 Grand Coureur 2.45 Crocodile Dancer 3.20 Space Oddity 3.55 No Planning 4.30 Just Milly 5.05 Optimistic Bias 5.40 Princesse Fleur
Doncaster 5.15 Art Collection 5.50 Mutanaaseq 6.20 Desert Frost 6.50 Aardwolf (nb) 7.20 City Of Joy 7.50 Midtech Star 8.20 Star Of Lombardy
Hexham 5.35 Mondlicht 6.05 Princess Tara 6.35 Dear Sire 7.05 Tomkevi 7.35 Againn Dul Aghaidh 8.05 One For Billy 8.35 Pekanheim
Warren Gatland has let New Zealand off the hook by overlooking Christian Wade for the British & Irish Lions squad, according to the Kiwi fly-half Jimmy Gopperth, who is “baffled” his Wasps team-mate was also snubbed for England’s tour of Argentina.
Wade has scored 16 tries in 20 matches this season and needs one more to equal Dominic Chapman’s record set in the 1997-98 campaign. This week he was shortlisted for the Rugby Players’ Association player of the year award but was snubbed last month by Gatland and Eddie Jones for the summer tours of New Zealand and Argentina respectively.
The Wasps wing won his solitary England cap four years ago against the Pumas before he was seconded to the Lions as injury cover and while he has not featured in any of Jones’s squads, with Jack Nowell, Anthony Watson and Elliot Daly picked by Gatland, the expectation was that he would go to Argentina.
Instead Jones has named Denny Solomona, the London Irish teenager Joe Cokanasiga and Saracens’ Nathan Earle – all of whom are uncapped – among his wingers while Gatland has picked George North, Liam Williams and Tommy Seymour alongside the aforementioned England trio.
“He’s been phenomenal this year, if a guy like that can’t make England … I would have taken him on the Lions [tour],” said Gopperth, one of three Wasps players up for the RPA award along with Wade and Daly. “He can make things happen and when you have a guy in the team like that, that can make a try out of nothing, that’s x-factor and he’s been brilliant for us this year.
“It’s always good to have someone like that in the squad. A guy with a bit of x-factor, if they took him down to New Zealand it adds a bit of spice. I really think that New Zealand would have seen him as a threat and would really have had to mark him.
“It’s something different within the squad, to just having hard-running wingers – if you have an out-and-out gas guy with really good feet it’s really hard to defend. He should be there,” added Gopperth.
“I just really enjoy watching him play. Give him the ball and try to catch him. He’s a hard guy to tackle and he’s been in phenomenal form. I’m baffled as to how he got overlooked for certain international selections but he’ll still be trying hard for Wasps for the rest of the season.”
Wade had touched down seven tries in his last seven matches but failed to score last week in the 32-13 defeat by Harlequins, which has put Wasps’s hopes of a home semi-final in jeopardy despite topping the table for much of the season. Indeed, Wade touched the ball just twice against Harlequins and there is the growing sense that Wasps’ attacking rhythm has been out of kilter since their comprehensive Champions Cup defeat by Leinster last month.
They are still the top try-scorers in the Premiership by a distance but Wasps host the defending champions Saracens on Saturday and must avoid a first home defeat of the season to guarantee a top-two finish.
“We know we have a very good attack,” said the director of rugby, Dai Young, who has recalled Danny Cipriani at fly-half with Gopperth returning to inside-centre.
“We have scored 114 tries in the two main competitions this season. To dispel the myth, we aren’t changing the way we play but we recognise we don’t want to give a team like Sarries 20-30 points and think we can score 40.
“We will go in with an attacking mindset but also be a bit sensible, not to be so loose on occasions because we cause ourselves problems. We aren’t going to beat Sarries at their game. We’ve got to play to our strengths.
“Without a shadow of a doubt our attack is a weapon, but we have to be sensible, we have to think about game management. And we have to make sure we cause them more problems than we cause ourselves.”
Mauricio Pochettino lamented Tottenham Hotspur’s inability to seize the opportunity that they had to spook Chelsea at the top of the Premier League, saying his team’s 1-0 defeat by West Ham on Friday night suggested they lacked the instincts of champions.
A victory for Spurs would have cut Chelsea’s lead at the top of the table to a single point but Manuel Lanzini’s winning goal for West Ham leaves Antonio Conte’s men four points clear and with a game in hand over their nearest pursuers. They will secure the title if they beat Middlesbrough at Stamford Bridge on Monday and West Bromwich Albion at The Hawthorns on Friday.
“To win a league or a trophy is about key moments,” said Pochettino. “The match against West Ham] was a key moment ... if you want to be champions you must win. How, I don’t know. We were missing a little bit but we move on and try to finish the season in the best way, still fighting.”
Tottenham’s midfielder Eric Dier admitted his team’s title aspirations are now highly unrealistic. “It’s very disappointing,” said the 23-year-old. “We knew it was going to be tough a long time ago and we managed to bring it back to four points. After [this defeat] it’s nearly impossible. But we will give everything for these last three games of the season, no matter what.”
Pochettino admitted his team failedto reach the level that they had attained while winning their previous nine matches in the league, describing his team’s performance as “just OK”. He said, however, that he remains proud of the challenge that his team have put up this season.
“It wasn’t our best performance, we tried,” he said. “I don’t change my vision of my team. I’m very proud. It’s difficult to keep your level. When we conceded, [West Ham] played deeper, [it was] difficult to create chances. We miss a little bit of fluidity to play in possession and move the ball quick and try to find the space and break them down. In the end I am calm, disappointed like our players, but we move on.”
Pochetino said his decision to omit Mousa Dembélé from the starting line-up did not contribute to his team’s defeat. Dier and Victor Wanyama began in central midfield in front of a back four, with Dembélé not arriving until the second half, just as he had done in the victory over Arsenal last weekend.
“Our strength is our collective, our squad,” said Pochettino. “With Mousa we have lost and won. Football is not about one name, one player. It’s to be strong like a unit. Mousa can bring things to the team like another player but I don’t think this was about playing one player and not another.”
West Ham’s manager, Slaven Bilic, said his team produced one of their best performances of their season to secure the win that banishes all relegation fears and all but relieves the pressure on him.
“We deserved to win, we did everything,” he said. “The way we did it was magnificent. Great determination, thinking about what each individual had to do. But to beat a team like Spurs you need more and we showed quality, especially in the second half. Friday night, underthe lights, against them, it was a big game for us and them. You can’t beat the feeling.”
Last-day drama is nothing new to Tony Mowbray, though having kept Coventry City in League One with a win on the final day of the season at Crawley Town two years ago, the now Blackburn Rovers manager remembers surprisingly little of it.
“All I can bring to mind is that I was trying to get a substitute on in the second half and our analyst was jumping up and down in the stand trying to attract my attention because he had heard something from another game on the radio,” Mowbray recalls. “I couldn’t work out whether he wanted me to make the substitution or not but that’s what happens when there’s so much going on at once – it all becomes a bit of a blur.”
To avoid any similar confusion at Brentford on Sunday Mowbray plans to keep in touch with events in the games involving their relegation rivals Birmingham City and Nottingham Forest, and has worked out a response to any given contingency. “We’ll need Plan A, Plan B and Plan C,” he says. “But hopefully not all at once.”
The former Middlesbrough, West Bromwich Albion and Celtic manager has never been in exactly this position before, because it was fairly certain in 2015 that a Coventry victory would send Crawley down, which it did. This time, Blackburn could win and still be relegated.
On the other hand, depending on results elsewhere, a draw may keep them up. Mowbray’s side are third from bottom, level on points with Forest, who are immediately above them with a goal difference superior by one. Birmingham are two points ahead.
“There is even an outside chance that we might lose and stay up; that’s how tight it is,” Mowbray says. “Theoretically we could get beat and our fans would be jumping around but it is much more likely that we will need to win by a certain number of goals. You can’t leave these things to chance so if Forest are winning by a single goal, we’ll need to be thinking about sending an extra striker on to try and get more.
“If the other teams are losing and we are doing all right, I’ll try and keep it tight. The worst-case scenario is if we hear Birmingham are winning four-nil and Forest have scored five because that would leave us needing about seven.”
The situation might not be quite so tense at the bottom but for the wholesale changes Huddersfield Town made at Birmingham last weekend, which allowed Harry Redknapp’s team an unexpected three points. Like most managers, Mowbray can see both sides of the argument.
“I don’t blame David Wagner for doing what he thinks is best for his side,” he says. “Huddersfield have done well to get to the play-offs and I think a lot of managers would do the same in his position. That doesn’t make it any easier for us though. It must be some magic dust Harry brings with him for a team with only two wins in 23 games to suddenly be able to win 2-0 with 10 men.”
Mowbray arrived at Blackburn with 10 weeks remaining of the season and in 14 games has suffered only three defeats, though he freely admits there have not been enough victories.
“When you are at the bottom what you really need is a run of wins – that’s the only thing that will catapult you up the table,” he says. “Winning boosts everyone’s confidence but if you draw the next game it slips away and you are sucked back in.”
Blackburn have been in steady decline since the club’s owners decided they could do without Sam Allardyce. Mowbray would not come in for particular criticism should the club find itself in League One and would be happy to stay on as manager, though with a sigh and an exasperated gesture towards the extremely well-appointed training facilities in view through the window, he points out what should be obvious.
“This club has the infrastructure in place to be much bigger,” he says. “I am not saying we are too good for League One, Forest are double European Cup winners and they are in trouble too, but if reality hits, you have to look it in the eye.
“I know all about League One from when I was at Coventry. It’s really tough going to places like Bury and Rochdale on a Tuesday night. Should the worst come to the worst, savings will have to be made, salaries will have to be reduced, but it would be a mistake to let all your quality go. You cannot dilute your playing strength too much or you will never get back. If we do find ourselves in League One we will obviously be on a reduced budget but I would still like to think it would be one of the bigger and better ones within that division.”
In the event of relegation, Mowbray will be making that point to the Venky’s Group or its representatives. The manager has had little direct contact with the club’s owners, though claims their hands-off style suits him. “The owners have been letting me get on with my job and that’s how I think it should be,” he explains. “I am sure they are aware of our predicament but there’s nothing they can do at this stage that will affect anything. We will all have to sit down at some point and work out a strategy for the future but at the moment we don’t know what that future will involve. I’m still hoping for the chance to start a Championship season on level points with everyone else. We’ve got to be realistic, it might not happen, but we haven’t played the last match yet and I’m fairly confident we can get a result.”
Paul Clement has urged his Swansea City players to crank up the pressure on Hull City by ensuring that the two-point gap between the two relegation-threatened teams does not widen before the final two matches of the season.
Swansea’s manager is aware that his team could be five points adrift by the time they kick-off at home against Everton on Saturday night, with Marco Silva’s side hosting Sunderland earlier in the day, yet he is convinced that his players have “turned a corner” in recent weeks and is confident they can escape the threat of relegation if they win successive home games for the first time in 12 months.
“We’ve got to do the business [against Everton],” Clement said. “Got to get a good result. Got to keep that pressure on. The fact that they’ve then got Crystal Palace and then Tottenham; we’ve got Sunderland and then West Brom … but we’ve got to do the job against Everton, we’ve got to focus on that.”
With Premier League safety Hull’s to lose, Clement talked about the need for Swansea “to use that [situation] to our advantage”.
Clement’s main concern, though, is that his players maintain the standards set in the last two fixtures. “We haven’t spoken about chasing; we’ve just spoken about the need to start performing better, because after the way we played against West Ham and Watford, if we continued playing like that, there was only going to be one outcome.
“Thankfully we have turned that corner and performed well, four points out of Stoke at home and Manchester United away is a good return. And it could have been six points, so now why can’t we go into Everton and take all three points?”
Hull’s match against Sunderland will finish roughly 40 minutes before Swansea kick-off and Clement is realistic enough to know that “everyone is going to know” the result in his dressing room. “Whether Hull win, lose or draw, we’ve still got to win. If they win, we’ve got to keep the gap the same. If they draw or lose, we’ve got to take advantage, so it stays the same for us,” he said.
Clement is expected to retain the midfield diamond that has served Swansea well, which means Jordan Ayew will once again partner Fernando Llorente up front. Ayew is still looking for his first goal since arriving from Aston Villa in January, yet the Ghanaian has impressed alongside Llorente, with Clement reporting that the striker’s “physical statistics were almost off the chart” against Stoke and saying they were “the same again against Man United”.
“He’s come close [to a goal],” Clement added. “He had two good opportunities against Stoke. There was one where it hit the inside of [Jack] Butland’s heel and on any other day that would have gone in. At Man United he had a couple of good chances. I’m sure that will come and it will be the icing on the cake because he’s doing a lot of things right.”
Arsène Wenger has become accustomed to putting on his best front for the pre-match media fandango. Given the volatile climate he arrives, straight bat at the ready, intent to defuse and dampen. It was all steady and predictable enough before this weekend’s visit of Manchester United when the line of questions suddenly took an unexpected bounce. What did Wenger think of Mesut Özil renewing the Tarmac on his driveway?
Pause.
Was this a trick question?
Wenger looked momentarily baffled. What does Tarmac on a drive have to do with Arsenal’s predicament? The inquisitor clarified with the suggestion that maybe doing some home improvements meant Özil wanted to stick around a while. A promising sign for the contract situation, perhaps. “Oh, that’s a good conclusion,” Wenger replied cheerfully, enjoying a brief moment of levity.
Here is the thing, though. Özil’s form has dipped to the point where the handsome offer, on the table for ages, has become a serious debating point. Arsenal are not in the business of routinely offering players in the region of the £250,000 to £300,000 per week mooted to tempt Özil and Alexis Sánchez. So when they do it really needs to be worth that extra push.
There was a point earlier in the season when Özil began to look more than ever like the technical leader and inspirer-in-chief Arsenal were eager to pin their hopes on. On 1 November he scored a virtuoso goal that was the talk of Europe, a matchwinner at Ludogorets that seemed to crystallise a new sense the player was keyed up to score goals and influence games more directly than the stereotype of Özil the floating, vulnerable muse. He scored nine goals in 20 games leading up to December. It felt different. More anchored in notable determination.
Arsenal allowed themselves to wonder whether he had evolved enough to be their cake as well as the cherry on top. But the subsequent months – retreating to a period of quiet ineffectiveness on the periphery as the team struggled desperately for mojo – have allowed all the old reservations to resurface.
There are too many divisive figures at Arsenal these days and Özil has again become a figure that splits opinion. The purists cling to his inherent ability. The doubters wonder how he invariably seems to stay on for a full 90 minutes when he drifts through games. Is that form convincing enough to merit one of the most expensive salary offers the club has ever drummed up?
In his autobiography, Die Magie des Spiels [The Magic of the Game], Özil noted how José Mourinho accused him of not giving everything during their time together at Real Madrid, quoting the manager as saying: “You think two beautiful passes are enough. You think you’re so good that 50% is enough.”
Wenger agrees Özil is a character who benefits from some tough love. “We had some good conversations with him as well, you know,” he says.
Not for the first time, Wenger is compelled to offer up a defence of Özil while the critics sharpen their opinion of someone who can be an easy target because of his languid style. “Big players have to carry the responsibility of the team. People look at it like that,” Wenger says.
“Last Sunday [at Tottenham] to just criticise Mesut Özil’s performance does not reflect exactly what happened on the pitch. I think he did fight very hard in recent games – we looked at his physical performance and they were at a very high level. But like the rest of the team on Sunday we were below what we produced recently. The big players get more criticised than the others. His style is more fluid, less aggressive, but it doesn’t mean you want it less than others.
“At the end of the day his style is his style and what you measure with Mesut Özil is the efficiency. His basic quality is retention and the creation of goal chances.” Even in this patchy season Özil is currently the Premier League’s top passer in the opposition half, with a success rate that exceeds Eden Hazard and Christian Eriksen.
Wenger had an intriguingly evasive reply to a question about whether it suits Özil to carry the kind of responsibility usually handed to the highest-profile players. “I’m not sure,” he says. “I think he embraces the challenge to play big games. Does he embrace the challenge to be criticised? I’m not sure. Does he like to be criticised? I’m not sure.
“You want all your players to be at their best in every single game so when they don’t achieve that of course you are frustrated but we all played football. We know we are only human beings and you have to accept the ups and downs.”
Does this drop in form make Wenger reconsider the sense in the massive contract on offer? “Before we spend big money we analyse all the aspects of commitments, because we have not only Mesut Özil and Sánchez to extend. We have many other players to extend and you have to make sure you have the resources available to extend the other players that you think are needed to be successful in the future. For example, Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain is part of that.”
The great Özil debate becomes a broader Arsenal-related discourse with the bigger picture question: can you build a team around him? The answer should be yes – as long as the other component parts are complementary and forgiving of the foibles of a delicate craftsman. Would Özil have flourished more in a Wenger team which had a midfield with the power and precision of Patrick Vieira and Emmanuel Petit behind him rather than the struggles of Granit Xhaka and Aaron Ramsey? Would he have produced more with the runs of Thierry Henry to aim for instead of Olivier Giroud?
The lack of balance in the team this season has not made for a perfect environment for Özil, even if he has not helped himself to the point that a tough old timer, Martin Keown, pulled few punches in his newspaper column this week when he claimed Arsenal “are simply carrying Mesut Özil and they cannot afford to”.
If too many big games are passing him by, Özil might remember that one of his best performances came in this fixture last season, when Arsenal defeated Manchester United 3-0. Özil was the architect of the opening goal and scorer of the second. He made a similar impact with Arsenal’s highest-calibre display this term when they beat Chelsea by the same margin.
The challenge to eke out more of those performances remains an Arsenal riddle, and it’s one that will be under consideration during the summer if Özil’s contract extension stays unsigned.
That begs the question of which clubs might queue up to spend lavishly on this gossamer talent and match or exceed those big wages for class that has not shone consistently for Arsenal. Have there been any offers, any signs of interest from other clubs? “No,” says Wenger bluntly. After another pause he offers a cryptic addendum. “Not officially.”
Tottenham Hotspur’s title charge skidded to a halt at the London Stadium as Manuel Lanzini struck a second-half goal that was celebrated as lustily by Chelsea fans as it was by the West Ham faithful.
Mauricio Pochettino’s men arrived on a nine-game winning streak and a mission to slash Chelsea’s lead at the top of the table to a single point but they performed sluggishly and left with nothing but regrets. Chelsea will be champions if they beat Middlesbrough on Monday and West Bromwich Albion on Friday. For the second season in a row Spurs have tripped up just as they gained momentum that spawned hopes of glory. They fly so high, nearly reach the sky, then like their dreams, they fade and ... well, West Ham fans know the rest, and so do Spurs, forever blowing opportunities.
In fairness this was not a terrible display by a team that have undoubtedly made progress this season but Pochettino’s side did fall below the standard they set in recent months when whittling Chelsea’s lead down from 13 points to four. There was an unfamiliar stodginess to their play and their defence wobbled uncharacteristically. That contrasted with the vigour of a West Ham side battling to guarantee their own survival in the top flight, alleviate pressure on Slaven Bilic and heap misery on their London rivals. Job done.
It was at this stage last season that Spurs unravelled in the title race, a draw at home to West Brom betraying a loss of nerve that resulted in Pochettino’s team failing to win any of their last four matches. Winning here would strengthen the conviction that they have evolved since then but Spurs began tentatively and never quite found their rhythm, even if Adrián had to make a handful of decent saves to prevent them from taking the lead.
The atmosphere at kick-off was as electrifying as it can get in an arena that tends to suck energy out of a football crowd. A crunching challenge by Eric Dier on Cheikh Kouyaté in the third minute added fuel to the fervour. But mostly West Ham were on top in a helter-skelter opening. Home fans leapt to their feet in anticipation of a goal when André Ayew clipped the ball into the path of Lanzini, whose run from deep caught Kyle Walker off-guard. Mercifully for the England international Lanzini skewed a feeble shot wide.
Walker started despite reported disagreements with his manager over fitness and a mooted transfer, and most of the trouble that West Ham went on to cause came down his flank, where Aaron Cresswell made the sort of raids that Walker usually inflicts on others. That was another thing for the manager to discuss with the defender.
In the 12th minute Cresswell sent a dangerous cross to the back post where Byram headed wide. Moments later Walker was caught out again and was booked for clipping Lanzini.
Spurs’ best moment came midway through the first period, when Adrián made a rigmarole of saving a long-range shot by Harry Kane. José Fonte did well to block Dele Alli’s follow-up, then Kane tried again from 15 yards and Adrián redeemed himself by sticking out a foot to divert the ball over the bar. Dier went close with a header from the ensuing corner but Adrián blocked that, too.
Hugo Lloris was unflustered until the 27th minute when he charged out of his box to thwart Lanzini. He did so in a manner that only goalkeepers seem to get away with, hurling himself knees-first at the ball and then following through to take out the opponent. West Ham’s fiery protests cut no ice with Anthony Taylor.
Christian Eriksen tried to give the home side something else to worry about but his low shot from 25 yards fizzed just wide. But that was Spurs’ only effort at goal after the earlier salvo. So at half-time the hosts were more satisfied than the visitors. And smiles were probably forming on the faces of any Chelsea players tuning in.
Spurs had 45 minutes to avert deceleration in the title race but they found nothing in the tank. Ayew let them off when he blasted over the bar from the edge of the area. The Ghanaian was denied a chance to atone when Jonathan Calleri overhit an easy through-ball.
Walker flashed his attacking quality by splitting West Ham’s well-drilled defence with a sharp through-ball. But Eriksen fluffed the resultant chance, a gentle sidefooter from eight yards never likely to beat Adrián. Son fired off a better effort a few minutes later but the goalkeeper saved again. Then West Ham finally summoned the cutting edge to punish Spurs.
Unsurprisingly the danger came first from the left wing, Cresswell delivering a cross to the back post. Ayew could not get a decisive touch as the Spurs defence panicked but the ball rolled to Lanzini, who was free six yards from goal. He lashed it into the net and ran to savour the acclaim of the crowd. The fact that a crash barrier collapsed amid the celebrations, injuring one fan, went unnoticed by most spectators but demonstrated that questions remain about this stadium’s suitability for such events.
Spurs never looked like equalising. Indeed Calleri should have deepened their misery after nicking the ball off Toby Alderweireld but he shot too close to Lloris. No matter, the damage was done.
The one-match ban which the Pescara midfielder Sulley Muntari received after protesting against racial abuse from Cagliari supporters has been overturned by the Italian football federation (FIGC).
Muntari complained to the referee, Daniele Minelli, about racial abuse during Pescara’s 1-0 defeat at Cagliari last weekend, walked off the pitch in protest after being shown a yellow card and was subsequently sent off.
Serie A’s disciplinary committee upheld the referee’s decision on Tuesday, handing the Ghanaian an automatic one-match ban. Cagliari avoided sanctions as “only 10 supporters and therefore less than 1%” of fans were directly involved, according to the committee’s report.
World footballers’ union Fifpro had called for the punishment to be rescinded while the former Tottenham striker and Kick it Out trustee Garth Crooks had called for black players in Italy to go on strike if Muntari was forced to serve the ban – with Muntari’s compatriot, Genoa’s midfielder Godfred Donsah, saying on Thursday that he was prepared to do so.
Speaking to Italian television after the match, Muntari said he had been abused by a group of fans in the first half but had tried to defuse the situation by giving one of the group, a child, his shirt “to teach him you’re not supposed to do things like that”.
The former Portsmouth, Internazionale and Milan star, who played 84 games for Ghana between 2002 and 2014, said the abuse continued in the second half so he tried to speak to Minelli. “I told him he should have had the courage to stop the game” Muntari said.
“The referee’s not just there to stand on the pitch and blow his whistle. He has to manage everything. He should also listen out for that kind of thing and set an example.”
Following the Italian FA’s decision, Muntari is now available for Pescara’s home match against Crotone on Sunday.
With 40 points apiece on the board, there is little to choose between these two clubs in the league table, yet everything points to a win for the outgoing Premier League champions. With Jamie Vardy scoring freely, Leicester are marching on under Craig Shakespeare and targeting a top-10 finish. Watford have similar ambitions but have lost their past four away matches without scoring and may start to get a little twitchy if they are not mathematically safe after this weekend. Stuart James
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue King Power Stadium
Last season Leicester City 2 Watford 1
Referee Roger East
This season G9, Y31, R2, 3.89 cards per game
Odds H 4-7 A 11-2 D 3-1
Subs from Zieler, Hamer, Amartey, Ulloa, King, Chilwell, Gray, Slimani, Musa, Kapustka, Wasilewski
Doubtful None
Injured Morgan (hamstring, 13 May), Mendy (ankle, Jul), Wague (shoulder, unknown)
Suspended None
Form WWLDLW
Discipline Y62 R1
Leading scorer Vardy 12
Subs from Arlauskis, Pantilimon, Success, Behrami, Carthcart, Zúñiga, Watson, Kabasele, Okaka
Doubtful Holebas (foot)
Injured Britos (calf), Cathcart (ankle), Kaboul (hamstring), Pereyra (knee, all 12 May), Zárate (knee, 21 May), Watson (groin, unknown)
Suspended None
Form WWLWLL
Discipline Y79 R4
Leading scorer Deeney 10
Sunderland may be down but they will also play a big part in who goes with them as they follow this with a visit from Swansea, who would be five points adrift at 5pm if Hull record their seventh win from Marco Silva’s eight home games. David Moyes has intimated he is staying at Sunderland and knows what has to be done to get them back up, which suggests a mass clear-out. Mark Tallentire
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue KCom Stadium
Last season n/a
Referee Neil Swarbrick
This season G21, Y82, R1, 4.00 cards per game
Odds H 1-2 A 7-1 D 15-4
Subs from Marshall, Davies, Dawson, Huddlestone, Hernández, Maloney, Mbokani, Diomandé, Tymon, Henriksen, Bowen, Lenihan, Luer, Olley
Doubtful None
Injured Elabdellaoui (back, 14 May), Keane (knee), Mason (skull), Meyler (knee), Odubajo (knee, all unknown)
Suspended None
Form WWLLWD
Discipline Y59 R5
Leading scorer Hernández, Niasse 4
Subs from Mannone, Jones, Koné, Djilobodji, Lescott, Januzaj, Cattermole, Pienaar, Honeyman, Gibson, Embleton
Doubtful Cattermole (achilles), Gibson (groin), Pienaar (ankle)
Injured Kirchhoff (knee, Jun), McNair (knee, Aug), Watmore (knee, Sep), Oviedo (hamstring, unknown)
Suspended None
Form LLLDLL
Discipline Y71 R4
Leading scorers Defoe 14
A huge game for Swansea, who could be five points behind Hull by the time they kick off at 5.30pm. Either way, Everton’s visit seems like must-win territory for Paul Clement’s side, who have regained some confidence by beating Stoke and then drawing at Old Trafford last Sunday. Everton, on the face of it, have little to play for and their away record – winless in their past six matches – is nothing to write home about. Swansea, though, have never beaten Everton at home. Stuart James
Kick-off Saturday 5.30pm
Venue Liberty Stadium
Last season Swansea City 0 Everton 0
Live BT Sport 1
Referee Martin Atkinson
This season G24, Y81, R3, 3.63 cards per game
Odds H 7-4 A 6-4 D 5-2
Subs from Nordfeldt, Tremmel, Cork, Narsingh, Bastón, Amat, Ki, Kingsley, Van der Hoorn, Fulton, McBurnie
Doubtful None
Injured Rangel (match fitness, 13 May), Routledge (hernia, 13 May), Dyer (achilles, unknown), Montero (hamstring, unknown)
Suspended None
Form DLLLWD
Discipline Y55 R0
Leading scorer Llorente 12
Subs from Robles, Barry, Lookman, Pennington, Dowell, Koné, Hewelt, Kenny, J Williams, Besic, Valencia
Doubtful Besic (knee)
Injured Schneiderlin (thigh, 12 May), McCarthy (hamstring, 21 May), Funes Mori (knee, Aug), Bolasie (knee, Nov), Coleman (leg, unknown)
Suspended None
Unavailable Lennon (illness)
Form LDWWDL
Discipline Y68 R2
Leading scorer Lukaku 24
Lukas Postlberger upset the odds to take victory on the opening stage of the 100th Giro d’Italia in Olbia.
A bunch sprint had been expected at the end of the 206-km stage from Alghero and Postlberger went to the front of the peloton with two kilometres left to start the lead-out for his Bora-Hansgrohe team-mate Sam Bennett of Ireland.
But he saw a gap open up behind him and pushed on to take his first World Tour victory - and the famous pink jersey - much to the Austrian’s own disbelief.
Behind, the big-name sprinters Caleb Ewan (Orica-Scott) and André Greipel (Lotto-Soudal) were left to settle for second and third respectively while Bennett was 10th.
Coupled with the climber’s blue jersey for his team-mate Cesare Benedetti, part of the day’s breakaway, it was a glorious day for Bora-Hansgrohe, who hold all four jerseys at the end of the first stage.
The overall contenders Nairo Quintana of Movistar and Geraint Thomas of Team Sky finished safely in the pack despite the disruption caused by a late crash, which was just outside the 3km cut-off point which guarantees riders will not lose time because of an incident.
However, not everyone was so lucky as some riders conceded more than a minute in the late confusion, with LottoNL-Jumbo’s general classification hopeful Steven Kruijswijk giving up 13 seconds.
With time bonuses applied, Postlberger leads the race by four seconds from Ewan.
“It’s a surprise,” Postlberger said. “I knew my shape was good. We wanted to try to lead Sam Bennett out but he lost my wheel and, when I saw a gap, I decided to try myself.
“I gave all I had. It worked out. This is my first professional win and I get the maglia rosa. It will take me a long time to believe this.”
Eat your heart out, Chelsea. The 4NCL (Four Nations Chess League) has just completed the season with Guildford once again totally dominant. The Surrey team won all its 11 matches, retained the title with a round to spare and crushed its Midlands rival Cheddleton 6.5-1.5 in Monday’s final fixture.
This was Guildford’s fifth successive championship success, achieved with an overall total of 53 wins and two draws in 55 matches. The 4-4 draw against Wood Green in 2012-13 was a titanic battle at the end of a season in which Guildford ended the Middlesex team’s long-running supremacy.
As the Guardian reported, Wood Green flew in the legends Vassily Ivanchuk and Alexey Shirov for this historic encounter, one effect of which was that Wood Green’s sponsorship budget diminished and they were less of a threat in the ensuing seasons.
This year Guildford were led by two of England’s leading grandmasters, Matthew Sadler and Gawain Jones, and they can also field other strong GMs from Western Europe. Roger Emerson, the manager, has good contacts as shown in the final match when David Anton, the talented young Spaniard who starred in this year’s Tradewise Gibraltar Open, played on third board. Another significant individual performance for Guildford was the Cambridge University student Dan Fernandez making his third and final GM norm.
Can Guildford’s monopoly be broken? One interesting newcomer to next season’s championship division will be Alba, Scotland’s first serious 4NCL contenders. Promoted from Division Three in 2015-16, they swept the board with 11 straight wins in Division Two. Alba look strong enough to hold their own in the 16-club top echelon but their chances of challenging for the title are remote barring a major policy change in squad selection.
All their players are registered for Scotland, and even if they fielded the nation’s optimum team led by their all-time No1 GM, Jonathan Rowson, they would lack the strength in depth to beat Guildford, who can field GMs on every board when needed.
A greater threat to Guildford could come in 2018-19. There was a clean sweep of all 11 matches in Division Three North by Manchester, continuing the successful run from north-west teams started by Liverpool’s Spirit of Atticus, who have achieved successive promotions from the third division to the championship.
3Cs, the popular Oldham-based club, had their best championship result yet, finishing fourth behind Guildford’s two teams and Cheddleton.
But the real heavyweights, who secured the second promotion spot, were Manx Liberty, a team from the Isle of Man whose five registered top boards were all 2600+ or 2500+ GMs from Poland and Romania. Even without any further additions, that would be enough to give Guildford significant problems.
The Isle of Man has always ambitiously punched above its weight on the chessboard. Forty years ago when the UK’s offshore islands met in a telephone knockout, the Manxmen were fierce competitors. More recently, the isle has staged high quality international opens. Its 2016 version, sponsored by chesscom, attracted nearly 50 GMs and will be repeated this September. A serious Manx bid for the 4NCL title in 2018-19 would give the IoM a still higher profile.
Ireland’s Gonzaga team from Dublin narrowly missed promotion due to the strength of Manchester and Manx, but they, too, could soon zoom to the top. It should all make the league become a truly national competition rather than one dominated by London and the south-east.
Sadler’s top board win against Ivan Sokolov in Guildford v Cheddleton lasted 40 moves, but the former Yugoslav and Dutch champion had a lost position long before that. White’s early f2-f3 in the Modern Benoni sparked Sokolov’s extravagant plan of pushing h5-h4 in a bid to control key dark squares. The problem was that Black’s king was unsafe, and when he misplayed his queen’s side counter by 16...Qxb6? allowing 17 b4! Black’s position was already desperate.
Sadler could have won queen for rook and knight by 19 Bh6+ Kg8 20 Rfb1, but he preferred a more practical solution where White was the exchange ahead with a monster c6 pawn. Black managed a desperate counter to create a passed h pawn, but resigned at the move 40 time control when White queened with check.
Matthew Sadler v Ivan Sokolov
1 d4 Nf6 2 c4 c5 3 d5 e6 4 Nc3 exd5 5 cxd5 g6 6 e4 d6 7 f3 a6 8 a4 h5?! 9 Bg5 Be7 10 Be3 h4 11 Qd2 Nbd7 12 Nh3 Ne5 13 Be2 Rb8 14 O-O Kf8 15 a5 b5?! 16 axb6 Qxb6? 17 b4! Bxh3 18 bxc5 Qb2 19 gxh3!? Qxd2 20 Bxd2 Rb2 21 Rfd1 Nh5 22 f4 Rxd2 23 Rxd2 Nxf4 24 c6 Kg7 25 Rc2 Nxh3+ 26 Kf1 Nf4 27 Na4 Bd8 28 Rb1 g5 29 Rb8 Bc7 30 Rxh8 Kxh8 31 Rb2 g4 32 Rb7 h3 33 Kf2 Ba5 34 Bxg4 Nfd3+ 35 Ke3 Nxg4+ 36 Kxd3 Nxh2 37 Nb6 Ng4 38 c7 Nf2+ 39 Ke2 h2 40 c8=Q+ 1-0
3493 1 Qxc4! Nxc4 2 Re8+ Kg7 3 Bf8+ Kg6 4 Be4+ forces Qf5 5 Bxf5+ with a piece up. A trap is 1 Re8+? Kg7 2 Qxc4 Rb1+! 3 Bf1 Nxc4 4 Bf8+ Kg6 with no follow-up. 1 Qe8+ wins also but is more complex.
Antonio Conte claims not to have discerned any shift in Diego Costa’s focus despite the striker’s anticipated summer departure for the Chinese Super League, and the Chelsea manager is urging all his players to concentrate solely on the final weeks of the team’s pursuit of a Premier League and FA Cup double.
Tianjin Quanjian, who had attempted to secure Costa’s services mid-season, are expected to sign the forward in a deal worth up to £76m this summer. The Spain international, who turns 29 in October and is contracted through to 2019 at Stamford Bridge, would become the best-paid player in the Chinese Super League. Sources close to the player say no deal has, as yet, been signed but there is a sense at Chelsea that such a mind-boggling offer would be accepted for a striker who has, at times, proved rather high-maintenance.
Costa has scored 19 league goals this season, a tally to which he hopes to add against Middlesbrough on Monday, and has been a key contributor to the team’s progress. But his form has been less productive since Tianjin’s interest first surfaced in January. His recent brace against Southampton ended a seven-game scoreless streak in all competitions. Asked if he expected the forward to remain at the club next season, Conte referred back to his comment on Eden Hazard the previous week when he implied the “will of the player” has to be taken into account when it comes to decisions over their future.
“I repeat the same concept about Diego and every single player,” he said. “But I’m not worried [about his focus]. I see my players every day and I can see the right concentration, the right focus, about my players. I think in this part of the season you arrive with four games to go and have the possibility to reach a fantastic target for us – don’t forget we started this season with a lot of problems and now we have a fantastic possibility to reach a great target and win the Premier League and also to play the FA Cup final, another great competition... these two big targets for us are very, very important. They are the most important things for us. Speculation or news, for me, is not important.
“I don’t know about this [potential deal to take Costa to China]. Now it’s very important for every single player and person who works for Chelsea to be focused on the present, because the present is more important for us than the future. But I’m not worried about this. I see my players every day and I see the right concentration and focus in them.”
Conte, who will seek medical assessments of N’Golo Kanté and David Luiz before finalising his selection against Boro, was irritated by a suggestion that some senior players who have been reduced to cameo roles may be “unhappy” with their lot. “I’d like to underline a concept: that’s it not about keeping the players ‘happy’. We must win,” he said when asked specifically about Cesc Fàbregas’ role this season. “You speak about people being happy but I speak about winning and working hard. Players are not always happy to work hard but my target is to put in the mind of the players a winning mentality. And that winning mentality doesn’t have to keep the players happy.
“It’s very difficult to keep 20 players happy, above all because I don’t actually want to. I don’t want this. I want players ready to fight and to try to put themselves in the team, to try to win together. If you are happy or unhappy, I don’t care. It’s important to stress this concept, you understand?
“Anyway, if you are unhappy in a season when you are fighting for the title and to win the FA Cup... I don’t like this.”
The Italian added praise for Fàbregas, whose influence has been felt whenever he has had game-time, and pointed to his “great commitment, great work-rate and great behaviour all season”.
The Spanish midfielder will enter the final year of his own contract in July but, despite starting only 10 league games this season, is expected to opt to stay at the club with a return to the Champions League ahead.
Manchester City have been banned from signing certain academy players for two years, the Premier League has announced. The club has also been fined £300,000 for breaching youth development rules relating to the signing of two players.
The ban means City will be unable to sign academy players in the 10-18 age range who have been registered with another Premier League or Football League club in the preceding 18 months. The second year of the ban, due to begin on 30 June 2018, will be suspended for three years.
A statement from the Premier League read: “Following an investigation, the Premier League found evidence that the club’s conduct prior to applying to register the players contravened League rules.
“This included evidence of contact between the club and members of each Academy player’s family while those Academy Players were still registered with their previous clubs.”
City will not be permitted to retain either player.
The statement added: “In each case, the Academy player was conditionally registered with Manchester City while the Premier League’s investigation was ongoing.
“As a result of the club’s breaches, the players’ registrations will be terminated on a specified date, with no compensation rights retained by the club, and the club will not be permitted to re-register them as Academy players.
“In addition, Manchester City has offered to pay compensation to each player’s previous club, and maintain educational provision for each player until the completion of his GCSEs.”
City have declined to comment on the matter. Their punishment comes after Liverpool were hit with a ban on signing academy players for two years for a similar breach.
Even those officials who long ago opted to end the Premiership campaign with a grand sudden-death Twickenham finale will have winced when they saw the team-sheets for the last weekend of the regular season. What should be a climactic Saturday afternoon is in danger of proving little with both Saracens and Gloucester deciding not to pick their strongest XVs in an effort to keep key players fresh for European finals next week.
If it is entirely understandable in the circumstances that Saracens’ Mark McCall and his fellow Ulsterman David Humphreys have omitted their main men, it scarcely enhances the competition’s standing at precisely the moment club rugby is seeking to broaden its appeal. The 30,000 supporters who bought tickets for Wasps’ supposed must-win home game against fellow title-chasers Saracens will now find themselves watching a visiting side deliberately shorn of six key internationals.
The conspicuous absence of both Vunipola brothers, Owen Farrell, Maro Itoje, Chris Ashton and captain Brad Barritt will draw few complaints from Wasps, who are keen to secure a home play-off semi-final and to top the table. McCall is equally unfazed, arguing Sarries still have a competitive side out and are unbothered, once their Champions Cup final against Clermont Auvergne is done, where they play their domestic semi-final. With Gloucester resting their Lions back-row Ross Moriarty and naming the experienced New Zealanders Jeremy Thrush and Josh Hohneck on the bench before their Challenge Cup final against Stade Français, Exeter’s chances of finishing first have also been boosted.
Partly it is a dilemma of Premiership Rugby’s own making; the determination to ensure their domestic final ends the season a fortnight after the European showpiece places clubs in an impossible position if they are competing on both fronts. As last year’s dual European and Premiership winners, Saracens, have proved it can be done and McCall also argues that flogging his star assets every week is counter-productive: “It’s hard for our players to keep going. We’ve got to be sensible and make sure we’re at full strength for the games that really matter.”
The stats, to some extent, back him up. The title has been claimed by the team finishing top of the Premiership once in the past four years; two seasons ago Sarries trailed in fourth in the league but still lifted the trophy. On the other hand, teams playing away in the semi-finals have secured five wins in 26 attempts since the introduction of the play-offs, a success rate of around 19%. If Saracens do finish third, they will have to buck the prevailing trend.
The desire of Wasps and Exeter to finish the season with a bang should also not be overlooked. Wasps have faltered since under-performing in their European quarter-final against Leinster in Dublin and were well below par in their last outing at Harlequins. In response they have recalled the fly-half Danny Cipriani, among two changes to their backline, and their England forward James Haskell insists collective motivation remains strong.
“It is important you make all the hard work that has been put in through the season pay off,” he said. “Everyone in this side wants to win silverware. This squad won’t be together next year because boys are leaving and moving on. It is important we seize the opportunity. You can go all season being top and then fall at the final hurdle and no one remembers you.”
It was Wasps, of course, who first perfected the art of peaking in May more than a decade ago but Saracens may just prefer a return trip to the Ricoh Arena than going to Sandy Park to face an Exeter side that have not lost in the league since October. In 21 games so far Saracens have conceded 23 tries, compared with a total of 59 scored against Wasps over the same period. If the latter’s much-vaunted attackers (84 tries) want to secure the bonus-point win that would guarantee them top spot, they are going to have to stand up and be counted further forward.
Exeter go to Kingsholm knowing they will end up heading the final table for the first time if they manage another bonus-point victory and Wasps fail to do likewise. “The home semi-final is important for us for a variety of reasons,” said Rob Baxter, whose squad have set a record of seven successive maximum five-point wins. “The most important reason is we want to bring a big game to Sandy Park and play in front of our own supporters. That said, it isn’t the be-all or end-all. We’ve been very good away from home as well.”
The only slight concern for Baxter, whose side have registered more league points than ever before, is that Greg Holmes, Dave Ewers, Don Armand and Lachie Turner all picked up knocks against Northampton last week and are unavailable to face Gloucester. England’s Jack Nowell switches from wing to full-back, with Dave Dennis reverting to the back row alongside Julian Salvi.
Gloucester can still theoretically qualify for the Champions Cup next season via the play-offs for the 20th place in the tournament which will also involve two sides from the Pro12 and one from the French Top 14. If, alternatively, they fail to beat Exeter and Northampton pip Harlequins to the final automatic European qualifying spot, their hopes of featuring in the premier tournament will end if they lose to Stade Français in Edinburgh next Friday.
“As a management team we’re conscious of the cup final and the opportunities that may come from that,” said Humphreys. “But this is also a huge game for us and we want to go out and respond to what was a disappointing performance at Bath last weekend.”
As things stand, Leicester are best placed to grasp the fourth and final play-off spot but their final-day opponents, Worcester, have run into decent form under the tutelage of their director of rugby, Gary Gold. A convincing defeat for the Tigers would leave the door ajar for Bath, who travel to Sale without the injured Anthony Watson and another Lion, Jonathan Joseph, who has been omitted from the matchday squad for the second week in a row and is not listed as injured. Not all is sweetness and light at the Rec, despite last Sunday’s thumping win over Gloucester, and a semi-final line-up of Exeter v Leicester and Wasps v Saracens feels a likelier outcome.
Among the many oddities of Arsène Wenger’s long goodbye at Arsenal – the anger, the corporate vacuum, the sense of some dying sun-king exploring the outer edges of his own vanity – one of the more interesting details is the weird, gimmicky switch to a back three in the past few matches.
It is an unsettling move at this stage, a kind of ageing-swinger version of tactical innovation. At one point in his classic Rabbit novels, John Updike sends his paunchy, middle-aged anti-hero Harry Angstrom off on a slightly sad wife-swapping escapade during a golfing holiday in the Caribbean. Alone in the bamboo chalet, Harry and nice prim Thelma fumble through their belated moment of 1960s swing with an awkward married tenderness. Eventually, a little desperate, in search of something special and exciting to do, they end up urinating on each other in the bath.
This is pretty much what Arsenal’s back three seem like: confused, fumbling, spreading across the chest like a hot, sweet flush of ammoniac regret. Wenger kept the back three in place against Tottenham last Sunday. Faced with an entire team grooved and drilled to play this way, it was exposed as what it is, a suit of borrowed clothes, the act of a man looking, slightly desperately, for something to do.
This is a surprising turn in the Wenger endgame. Personally, I’d been expecting him to become more, not less Arsène-like with time, more obsessed with that old vision of fluent, soft-shoed Wenger-ball. Instead we have this: odd positional shifts, a lumpen midfield and perhaps the least Wenger-like team in two decades.
Of course, by any reasonable standards Wenger should have already gone, or at least be on the verge of announcing his departure. This is not a punitive judgment. Wenger doesn’t deserve to be jeered off or have his outstanding record belittled. But all things have an end date, even good ones.
Instead the signs are that he will stay on. And so we have the current dog days, and a manager who seems a little less recognisable with every passing week. Perhaps this is where some of the genuine disdain, the gleeful piling in of the past few days comes from. Even Wenger told Norwegian TV this week that he “hates himself” when Arsenal lose. And watching him writhe on the touchline at White Hart Lane, cold and terribly thin, out there in his skinny legged trousers, icicles dripping from his nose, there was above all an air of sadness.
Often the most gripping thing about watching managers fail is the way certain traits are pulled out and exaggerated to defining effect. When Pep Guardiola hits a sticky patch he seems to become an ever-more extreme Guardiola, a great whirring brain producing teams so fluent and frictionless they barely seem to touch the turf. José Mourinho fails by going Mourinho-supernova, drowning in his own bile, a cartoon of José-ness but still undeniably himself.
By contrast one thing this current, prosaic Arsenal team lack is a bit of basic Wenger-ness. Until quite recently most people seemed to agree the great flaw in Arsenal’s system was that they had too much craft in midfield, an excess of slick passing and flashy movement. Buy a tough, strong central player, they said. Change your formation, they said. So he did, but like a man out of his comfort zone, lost in this new world, shuffling anxiously across the avocado bathroom suite, quilted gown trailing on the tiles.
At the end of which this latest Wenger team has a midfield that seems bereft of craft and life. Granit Xhaka, Francis Coquelin, Mohamed Elneny and Aaron Ramsey have one league goal between them in a combined 84 appearances. Arsenal are routinely out-passed and out-moved in their traditional area of strength. Wenger, who was once deemed the most maddening man in football for his refusal to compromise his principles, appears to be making it up on the hoof.
Even the switch to a hot new 4-2‑3-1 a while back always felt a little too late, last season’s tactical skinny jeans. In retrospect it already looks like part of the good old days, the age of the lightweight, Velcro-touch skill-goblins, with something thin and extreme and one-note but still a coherent style to follow the powerful, technical team of the early years.
Something seems to have been lost around about the time the man who introduced internationalism decided the right thing was to have a “British spine”. Exit the creaky, flighty, high class midweek Carling Cup types – the Carlos Vela Supremacy – who for all their frustrations always seemed to have a brilliant midweek hat-trick against Reading in their locker. Enter a creeping, well-behaved mediocrity.
In fairness to Wenger he has been massing Santi Cazorla, Arsenal’s best player and a gorgeously poised central conductor who made this whole team look so much more fluent and capable. But the lack of a replacement tells its own story. The classically Wenger-ish players sign for Manchester City these days. Old, puritanical Arsène would have bought Ilkay Gundogan, Gabriel Jesus, Nolito and Leroy Sané - and what a brilliant attack and midfield they would have made before moving on elsewhere for a large profit.What to do from here? The idea this team might have a final farewell title in them was still being floated as recently as the start of this season. The obvious decay in the squad, the loss of edge, of extreme qualities, makes this look horribly far-fetched. But there is still time for a last gearing up.
If Wenger really does insist on taking his final turn, he must surely do so as himself, with a group of players and a plan that at least looks and plays like a Wenger team.
Stay strong, Arsène. Draw yourself up to your full height. Field only the tiniest, most skilful woodland elves. Stand bolted to the touchline, grey quilted coat quietly mouldering away, the thin white duke pared back defiantly to his basic parts. Give us all a final whiff of Wengerball. And don’t, whatever you do, get in the bath with Thelma. Not now, not after all this time.
As the final four games of Pep Guardiola’s first Premier League campaign are embarked upon Manchester City were not supposed to be merely fighting for a Champions League berth. But this is the unwanted scenario and, with Sam Allardyce’s Crystal Palace still not quite safe from relegation, this may prove a tricky contest for the home side, who are without Sergio Agüero. Jamie Jackson
Kick-off Saturday 12.30pm
Venue Etihad Stadium
Last season Manchester City 4 Crystal Palace 0
Live Sky Sports 1
Referee Michael Oliver
This season G29, Y94, R2, 3.38 cards per game
Odds H 3-10 A 11-1 D 6-1
Subs from Gunn, Adarabioyo, Iheanacho, Delph, Fernando, Kolarov, Nolito, Zabaleta, Sagna, Silva
Doubtful Silva (match fitness)
Injured Stones (abductor, 13 May), Gündogan (knee, Sep), Agüero (groin, unknown), Bravo (calf, unknown)
Suspended None
Form DLWWDD
Discipline Y64 R4
Leading scorer Agüero 18
Subs from Mandanda, Speroni, Fryers, Townsend, Ledley, Cabaye, Flamini, Lee, Kaikai, Sako, Campbell, Rémy, J Benteke
Doubtful Townsend (achilles)
Injured Cabaye (calf, 14 May), Dann (knee), Sakho (knee), Tomkins (calf, all 21 May), Wickham (knee, Aug), Souaré (leg, unknown)
Suspended None
Form LWDWLL
Discipline Y72 R0
Leading scorer C Benteke 14
When it was revealed on Thursday that David Moyes had said Sunderland would need to buy an “entire new team” for next season’s Championship campaign, the Fiver’s red and white striped shirt-wearing Wearside-dwelling cousin Mackem Fiver got very excited. “Juventus will do!” he hawayed to the lads, who quickly pointed out that Gigi Buffon, Giorgio Chiellini and Paulo Dybala might not be overenthused by the prospect of long trips to Brentford or Burton next season and this “completely new team” would probably consist of Duncan Ferguson, David Unsworth and a couple of on-loan Manchester United Under-23s.
With Jermain Defoe likely to skidaddle out of the Stadium of Light as fast as his little legs can carry him, Jordan Pickford likely to be sold to the highest bidder to raise some much-needed revenue and assorted out-of-contract deadwood likely to be left wriggling in bin bags outside a local charity shop, David Moyes currently faces the prospect of building his new team around John O’Shea, Victor Anichebe and the remaining cleaning staff who haven’t been made redundant, in a state of affairs that suggests Sunderland’s stay in the Championship may well be as short as they hope … but not in a good way.
On Friday it was confirmed to widespread groans on Wearside (and similarly widespread guffaws on Tyneside) that it will indeed be Moyes who is tasked with managing the local team next season and the Scot demonstrated a curious lack of understanding about How Football Works for a man who was sacked from his last two jobs in management and has managed only five wins out of 34 Premier League games in his latest one. “I don’t know what you mean by ‘decision’,” he sniped when asked if there had been a decision on his future. “I’ve got a four-year contract so I don’t know what you’re talking about ‘a decision’.” Ah, the Fiver gets it; he was labouring under the delusion it was his decision. “We have to find a way to get things correct and we’ll see what we can do,” he added. “I think if you talked about the club and not about David Moyes then right from the start we did say there is a rebuilding job to be done.”
When David Moyes was reminded that right from the start David Moyes also said that Sunderland would also be in a relegation battle, David Moyes replied: “When I look back on it I was very honest, forthright, told people what I thought,” failing to add that the description of his team’s feeble efforts to maintain their Premier League status as a “battle” turned out to be quite the misnomer. While it would be unfair to saddle Moyes with all of the blame for Sunderland’s woes this season, considering his rotten luck with injuries and the fact that the club is a right mess from the top down, his apparently steadfast belief that their relegation is nothing to do with him continues to beggar belief among ridiculously dedicated supporters of a vessel that had been listing for some years before sinking into the Championship with a forlorn gurgle. While it is a captain’s duty to go down with his sinking ship, one suspects few of them would have been too fussed if Moyes had scrambled for safety and left them to plumb the depths in peace.
Follow Nick Ames’s red-hot minute-by-minute report of West Ham 0-2 Tottenham Hotspur at 8pm BST.
“Somebody said to me ‘If you’re bitten by a dog once, you’re afraid of dogs the rest of your life’. This football club was bitten by four dogs, four bad owners. Why wouldn’t they be concerned about a new owner, they don’t know [me] from 6,000 miles away, it’s totally understandable. I would feel the same way” – wannabe Portsmouth owner Michael Eisner on why his chat had better be good if Pompey fans are to ever trust him.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“There’s a certain irony to Thursday’s Quote of the Day referring to Mesut Özil’s perceived lack of effort, coming as it did on a day when the Fiver’s original contribution to the copy (667 words, excluding ads) was less than that of the letters section (705 words). I assume you’re shrugging nonchalantly as you read this” – Brian Saxby.
“Sorry to be a pedant (OK, not sorry to be a pedant) but you talked on Thursday about ‘teenage goal magnet Kylian Mbappé’. Wouldn’t a goal magnet get stuck to the goal, rather as a fridge magnet sticks to a fridge? That would make him pretty useless as a striker, and offside nearly all of the time. Unless he was stuck to his own goal, and that would be even worse” – Dan Levy (and no others).
“I for one prefer not to walk around in clothes that advertise for free those giant corporate entities such as Abercrombie & Fitch, Levi’s or Guardian Towers and to be honest I find it difficult to carry off wearing a T-shirt in polite company without unsavoury wobbling at the best of times these days. However, I would absolutely do so in the cause of ‘I’m with 1,056 others’. Given that the Guardian is desperately trying to get us to provide revenue over the interweb, perhaps the Fiver could contribute by establishing its own clothing line - just like most Premier League clubs who are effectively fashion houses with a football team attached. I’m in” – Tim Birdsall.
“So some bloke did loads of research about the history of football’s European competition and displayed some outstanding knowledge about 70s Euro knockouts that would almost count as floating brain in a jar standard, and some other bloke made some crap Abba puns. And guess which one got letter’o the day. Keep fighting the good fight Fiver” – Robin Hazlehurst.
“Having toiled my way through the gulag of your daily missive for what presumably would otherwise have been the best years of my life, I’m thinking of a more political Fiver T-shirt. How about a call to arms: STOP FOOTBALL: FREE THE 1,057 NOW!” – Justin Kavanagh .
• Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Rollover.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
José Mourinho has told Manchester United fans that just because he plans to replace some tired players with some slightly less tired players at Arsenal “they won’t beat us five or 6-0.” Consider yourself reassured.
For some reason that may or may not be revealed in a future article by proper journalist David Conn, Leicester’s owners have made an offer to buy Belgian side OH Leuven for £2m.
Everton’s Séamus Coleman has scrawled his name all over a new five-year contract.
Neymar is to stand trial for alleged tax-knack in relation to his move to Barcelona.
The FA says it will review its partnership with betting companies but the decision has nothing to do with the case of Joey Barton. “It is right we consider it and then make a positive decision on what we are going to do or not,” sighed chief suit Greg Clarke.
Slaven Bilic, who knows a thing or two about troublesome moves, has warned Spurs that leaving White Hart Lane might be a right pain in the tail. “I would not be surprised if they had problems,” sniffed Bilic. “It is going to be very hard to replicate the atmosphere and the feeling that anywhere you turn you [feel] close to either goal.”
Jürgen Klopp has revealed that even Emre Can has had to repeatedly view that goal he scored against Watford to believe it. “He’s watched it on the iPad about 250 times,” he chortled, before saying he’s optimistic Can will sign a new contract.
Lionel Messi has had his four-game Argentina ban for allegedly saying effin’ bad words to an assistant referee overturned by Fifa because of insufficient effin’ evidence.
And Zinedine Zidane reckons He can handle being rested for Real Madrid’s 11-0 win at Granada. “I speak with [Him] all the time and I know Him very well. He knows that until now he played 60-70 games a season and the accumulation of all those years meant He needs to rest a little,” soothed Zidane.
Football Weekly Extraaaaaaaaaaaaaaa’s weekend preview.
Will Arsenal v Manchester United prove a damp squib, wholesale ch-ch-changes in the Championship and eight more things to look out for this weekend.
José Mourinho’s team returned to English soil with a first-leg lead but his forwards struggled again in Big Vase, so-says Jamie Jackson.
Will Plain Old John Terry and Jermain Defoe both hotfoot it to the south coast this summer? That and more in today’s Rumour Mill.
Ugo Ehiogu’s young Spurs squad are slowly getting back into things, writes David Hytner.
Why might Atlanta United v New York City FC be MLS’s most important game? Luis Miguel Echegaray has the answer.
Quiz! Quiz! Quiz! Feat. Him, Totti and … what more could you possibly want?
Portsmouth fans had a chance to interrogate prospective owner Michael Eisner with D-day looming, writes proper journalism’s David Conn.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
Is it really six years? Frankel’s 2,000 Guineas was a two-minute explosion of unassailable brilliance, and it scorched such an indelible image on the mind that it feels much closer at hand.
Frankel walked on to the long, straight course at Newmarket as a potential champion, and back to the winner’s enclosure with his freakish ability established beyond all doubt. He had shown that even after three centuries of intermingling in thoroughbred bloodlines, it is still possible to shuffle the pack of racehorse genetics and draw an unbeatable hand. And on Saturday afternoon, in the sixth 2,000 Guineas since, it may start to become apparent whether the owners of his sons and daughters are also playing with a loaded deck.
Ten runners are due to go to post for this year’s Guineas, one of the smallest fields for many years, and just five are priced up as realistic contenders by the betting. Two of those – Eminent and Dream Castle – are colts from Frankel’s first crop of foals, conceived a few months after his retirement, with a perfect 14-from-14 record, in the autumn of 2012.
If the great racing champion could father a Guineas winner at the first attempt, it would add yet another chapter to the tale of his achievements, with the promise of many more to come.
Sadler’s Wells, the most successful stallion of the last 30 years, sired six crops of foals before producing a 2,000 Guineas winner. His son Galileo, who has since assumed his mantle as Europe’s dominant stallion, also had his first Guineas winner – Frankel, no less – in his sixth crop. It is not unknown for a stallion to sire a 2,000 Guineas winner in his first season at stud – Dubawi, now established as Galileo’s closest rival among current stallions, did so when Makfi took the Classic in 2010 - but it is certainly unusual.
“It really would be something,” Teddy Grimthorpe, racing and bloodstock manager to Prince Khalid Abdullah, Frankel’s owner, said on Friday.
“The great thing is that everyone expects so much of Frankel, and whether it happens this weekend or in the future, he’s set himself a very good, solid platform of high-quality runners who could have the ability to jump up to top class. At this stage, there are still many unknowns, but it certainly augurs well.
“The interest in Frankel has never really abated. Usually when they go to stud, horses drop off the public perception for obvious reasons, but if anything Frankel has grown in terms of general and wider interest, which is fantastic.
“Obviously it’s huge for everyone at [the owner’s] Juddmonte [bloodstock operation] and for Prince Khalid, but it’s great for the sport and everyone’s excited about it, even our competitors, which is great. It brings excitement to the sport and we can all benefit from it.”
Eminent, a 5-1 chance who took the Craven Stakes over the Guineas course and distance on his seasonal debut last month, is Frankel’s main hope for Saturday’s Classic according to the betting.
“Flat racing is all to do with the breeding and the bloodlines and keeping that alive [and] it’s good for the public to be able to identify with a stallion,” Martyn Meade, Eminent’s trainer, said on Friday.
“In the 2,000 Guineas, you were waiting and waiting for Frankel to come back [to the field] and he was getting further and further ahead. I don’t think we’re going to see that tomorrow, but it was the way he covered the ground, and that’s the point with my horse as well.
“When you watch him work at home, he doesn’t give you the impression that he’s going very quickly, but he is. It’s because he has such a long stride, he lollops rather than gallops, and that’s why he’s so effective.
“The Craven was the fastest for 50 years and if you look at the Guineas, which is the same track and pretty much the same time of year, the last time that it was done in that sort of time was back in 1994 by Mister Baileys.”
It is often said about Flat racing that its champions retire too early, while the best National Hunt horses race on for season after season.
In time, though, they race on through their sons and daughters and on Saturday, for the first time since his astonishing victory in 2011, Frankel’s name will appear in the Newmarket racecard on Guineas day. Six years on, it certainly feels good to have him back.
Newmarket 1.50 Next Stage 2.20 Muthmir 2.55 Seventh Heaven 3.35 Barney Roy (nap) 4.10 Queen In Waiting 4.45 Khalidi 5.20 Andok
Goodwood 1.35 Onorina 2.05 Dubka 2.40 Zwayyan 3.15 Stepper Point 3.50 Laugh Aloud 4.25 Patchwork 5.00 Dominating 5.30 Alexander M
Thirsk 1.55 Super Major 2.30 Wilde Extravagance 3.05 Savannah’s Dream 3.40 Spring Offensive 4.15 Carlton Frankie 4.50 Key Bid 5.25 Excessable
Uttoxeter 1.40 Le Coeur Net 2.10 Grand Coureur 2.45 Crocodile Dancer 3.20 Space Oddity 3.55 No Planning 4.30 Just Milly 5.05 Optimistic Bias 5.40 Princesse Fleur
Doncaster 5.15 Art Collection 5.50 Mutanaaseq 6.20 Desert Frost 6.50 Aardwolf (nb) 7.20 City Of Joy 7.50 Midtech Star 8.20 Star Of Lombardy
Hexham 5.35 Mondlicht 6.05 Princess Tara 6.35 Dear Sire 7.05 Tomkevi 7.35 Againn Dul Aghaidh 8.05 One For Billy 8.35 Pekanheim
There is a picture doing the rounds on social media that has Michael Flynn’s face superimposed above Steve McQueen’s body, with the Newport County manager about to pull off League Two’s version of the Great Escape on that famous Triumph motorbike.
For those not familiar with his story, Flynn is the local hero who has transformed Newport’s fortunes since taking over as manager in March, breathing new life into a football club that barely had a pulse when he was asked to step up from his role as first-team coach to replace Graham Westley.
“Back from the dead” are the words that the 36-year-old uses as he reflects on a remarkable run that has seen Newport, who were 11 points adrift of safety with 12 games remaining, pick up six victories in as many weeks to go into the final fixture of the season, at home against Notts County on Saturday, with their destiny in their own hands. A win will guarantee Football League status for another year. Anything less and Newport face relegation if Hartlepool beat Doncaster.
“It’s going to be nerve-racking and emotional,” Flynn says. “There’s going to be die-hard fans crying if we stay up, and die-hard fans crying if we go down. Either I won’t buy a drink again for the rest of the year, or there will be a lot of people who won’t be too happy with me. It is what it is. But, hand on heart, I feel confident because the boys have given me everything and there’s no reason for them not to do it one more time – they know what it means.”
Flynn educated everyone on that front a while ago. Born and raised in Newport, he has amber and black in his veins. As well as working for the club across many different roles, Flynn has enjoyed three separate spells at Newport as a player – he has even made five appearances this season. One game, though, will always stand out: the Conference play-off final victory over Wrexham in 2013, which ended Newport’s 25-year wait to return to the Football League.
“That was one of the best days of my life because I saw what it meant to so many people – people who had worked so hard to get the club back,” Flynn says. “But I do think that this Notts County game is arguably bigger. During the play-offs we had a wealthy backer, so there was a bit of security there with Les Scadding, who did a very good job for Newport, helping to fund the club for a long time. But we haven’t got that now. We had to raise money for the fans to take ownership of the club.”
It has been a turbulent period on and off the field. Terry Butcher, John Sheridan, Warren Feeney and Westley have all occupied the manager’s office during the past two years, results have deteriorated badly – Newport finished third from bottom last season in a sign of things to come – and criticism has been levelled at the board for the way that it has run the club.
Flynn, in other words, was walking into a storm when he agreed to take the job, especially as Newport’s last game under Westley was a 4-0 home defeat against Leyton Orient, who were 91st on the league ladder at the time. “I could easily have shied away from the challenge and let somebody else do it. But that’s not what I’m about,” he says.
So how on earth has he managed to turn everything around so quickly? “We’ve put the confidence back into players and got them playing with a smile on their face,” Flynn says, alluding to the help he has received from the vastly experienced Lennie Lawrence, who is one of his tutors for the Football Association of Wales pro licence course he enrolled on last year, and Wayne Hatswell, his No2. “We’ve not overdone meetings or overcomplicated things. And I’ve played this season, so I still know what players enjoy and what they don’t, so we’ve just got back to that.”
Flynn has no plans to wear his boots again. He made close to 300 Football League appearances for Wigan, Gillingham, Blackpool, Huddersfield, Darlington and Bradford after starting his career as a teenager with Newport, where he stacked shelves at Tesco and worked as a postman to top up his part-time wages. Flynn also had a stint at Barry Town and, memorably, scored in a Champions League victory over Porto.
Yet no matter where he has played, Flynn has always thought of Newport as home, especially Pill, the inner-city docks area where he grew up. “I was always close to my mum, but I lived with my great-auntie Sheila and my great-uncle Ted, mainly because I wanted to live in Pill,” he explains.
“Unfortunately, they have all passed away. I had a tough time in 2007, when I lost my auntie to cancer and then 11 months later lost my mum, who was only 48, again to cancer. During that period my dad, who is still alive, had a heart attack and a stroke. It was horrendous, a testing time, and I’ve felt that I’ve always wanted to do them proud since. The play-off win at Wembley was for them and this will be for them as well if we stay up.”
Flynn is anticipating an electric atmosphere at Rodney Parade, where all 7,500 tickets have been sold, and he is also confident that the club will be playing their matches at the stadium next season. Newport Gwent Dragons, their fellow tenants, are subject to a takeover bid from the Welsh Rugby Union, which sees Rodney Parade as a rugby venue.
“We’ve got another six years left on the lease and talks have been positive with Rodney Parade Limited and the WRU if they do take over,” Flynn says. “That’s not my concern one bit, to be honest.”
Retaining Football League status is all that matters, so much so that Flynn has had to put the overseas study that forms part of his pro licence course “on the backburner” until the summer. He has been keeping good company in that classroom, with Thierry Henry, Mikel Arteta and Freddie Ljungberg among the other candidates, and must be looking forward to filling everyone in on what he has been up to since their previous get-together.
“The last meeting was March, just before I got the job,” says Flynn, smiling. “I’m due back there on 24 May and it’s the national coaches conference on the Friday, Saturday and Sunday of that following weekend. We’ll have a couple of days before that and some of the big-hitters will then be delivering. You never know, if I keep Newport up, they might ask me to present on how a rookie manager comes back from the dead.”
A first away win of the season at Crystal Palace brought Burnley to the verge of guaranteed survival and in truth it would take quite a turn of events for them to be endangered now. One more point would take them to the vaunted 40 mark and they should fancy their chances of gaining at least that against a West Bromwich Albion side that, with four consecutive defeats and five games without a goal, has tailed off dramatically. Six places and five points separate the sides but it is not entirely fanciful to imagine Burnley making that ground up over the final few games. Nick Ames
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue Turf Moor
Last season n/a
Referee Mike Jones
This season G17, Y57, R1, 3.47 cards per game
Odds H 5-4 A 5-2 D 9-4
Subs from Pope, Robinson, Darikwa, Mee, Long, Flanagan, Defour, Gudmundsson, Agyei, Gray
Doubtful Boyd, Keane (both match fitness), Mee (shin), Ward (knee)
Injured Marney (knee, unknown)
Suspended Barton (18 months)
Form LWDLLW
Discipline Y62 R2
Leading scorer Gray 9
Subs from Myhill, Fletcher, M Wilson, Jones, Leko, Field, K Wilson, Harper, Fitzwater, Wright, Campbell, McClean
Doubtful None
Injured Phillips (hamstring, 12 May), Robson-Kanu (hamstring, 12 May)
Suspended None
Form WDLLLL
Discipline Y71 R0
Leading scorer Rondón 7
England internationals are often preceded by controversy and conjecture but as the national side prepare for their first mid-season game in the southern hemisphere since 2002, excitement levels in what is a World Cup year are alarmingly low.
England do not play mid-season often and that in itself is symptomatic of the state of the international game. But the head coach, Wayne Bennett, had insisted that if England were to take the World Cup seriously this year, a mid-season match against proper opposition was a must.
But whySydney? And why are Samoa the opponents? “It gives us a flavour of what it’s like to play in a match of that calibre,” the England team manager, Jamie Peacock, said. “Playing France would not have cut it this year in the run-up to a World Cup.
“We want to bridge the gap, not having been away from each other for 12 months and not having had a game and not getting little issues sorted,” Bennett added. “We want to hit the ground running in the World Cup knowing who can do what.”
So Bennett has his wish – and he has it in Australia. His club commitments as the Brisbane coach, plus the logistics of being able to bring a side capable of giving England a challenge, mean there was no other choice. In essence, Bennett has nowhere to hide on Saturday.
His appointment as head coach was met with a blaze of optimism 12 months ago and rightly so, given his impressive CV. Yet failure to make last year’s Four Nations final on home soil was a disappointment, try as hard as Bennett might to dress it up.
“We had a good Four Nations without winning anything or making the final but I still thought we did a lot of good things,” he said this week. “What I’m most pleased about is we’re heading in the right direction.”
But it is not only that which has fans wondering whether the Bennett project can be a success. It is also his selection policy. The biggest headline? The 67-year-old’s decision to draft in two Australia-born players in Chris McQueen and Chris Heighington, the pair qualifying through English parentage.
Heighington has previous, having played for England six years ago but at a time when the player pool in this country appears to be as rich as ever the selection of the 35-year-old – as well as McQueen, who was playing for Queensland three years ago – has not been received well. There have also been questions about the omission of Mark Percival and the selection of Super League’s best full-back, Zak Hardaker, at centre. However, there are some positives including the completion of Mike McMeeken’s return from rugby league’s wilderness to the international stage.
England team S Ratchford (Warrington); J McGillvary (Huddersfield), K Watkins (Leeds), Z Hardaker (Castleford), R Hall (Leeds); K Brown (Warrington), L Gale (Castleford); S Burgess (S Sydney), J Hodgson (Canberra), J Graham (Canterbury), M McMeeken (Castleford), E Whitehead (Canberra), S O’Loughlin (Wigan, capt). Subs C Hill (Warrington), C Heighington (Cronulla), C McQueen (Gold Coast), T Burgess (S Sydney).
Tenth hosts 12th with manager Eddie Howe still preaching the importance of mathematically ensuring Bournemouth’s Premier League status. They are nine points clear of relegation, with three games remaining but a much bigger prize looms, a top-half finish. In-form Joshua King, who has scored 12 goals in his last 14 appearances, will again look to showcase his talents against a Stoke team who have not won on the road since January. Ben Fisher
Kick-off Saturday 3pm
Venue Vitality Stadium
Last season Bournemouth 1 Stoke City 3
Referee Paul Tierney
This season G9, Y27, R2, 3.44 cards per game
Odds H 5-4 A 5-2 D 13-5
Subs from Allsop, Gradel, B Smith, Stanislas, Mings, Ibe, Cargill, Jordan, Ramsdale, Surridge, Gosling
Doubtful Gosling (calf)
Injured Surman (knee, Jun), Wilson (knee, Aug), Afobe (hamstring), Federici (knee), Wiggins (knee), Wilshere (leg, all unknown)
Suspended None
Form DDLLWW
Discipline Y51 R3
Leading scorer King 15
Subs from Grant, Given, Bachmann, Bardsley, Pieters, Adam, Imbula, Diouf, Ngoy, Sobhi, Bony, Crouch, Walters
Doubtful Berahino (ill), Walters (knee)
Injured Afellay (knee, 21 May), Ireland (leg, Jun)
Suspended None
Form LLLWLD
Discipline Y66 R2
Leading scorers Allen, Arnautovic 6
Toss the ball to a leg-spinner called Rashid and Irish batsmen currently have an attack of the heebie-jeebies so severe that they may be a source of some alarm in Dublin at the prospect of their team playing Test cricket in the foreseeable future.
Ireland spent a chunk of the winter in India playing against Afghanistan and the precocious 18-year-old wrist spinner, Rashid Khan, contrived to take 33 wickets against them in nine games, only one of which was played with a red ball in a two-innings match. More surprisingly, in Bristol in May on a surface containing some live green grass, the Irish were humiliated by Adil Rashid. He took a career best five for 27 from eight overs, thereby ruining the contest in the process.
Ireland, who had reached the dizzy heights of 40-0 in the sixth over, were soon bowled out for 126 in 33 overs. England knocked off the runs with 30 overs to spare before the players had taken their lunch break. Some sympathy was due to Gloucestershire after another abbreviated game – the last two international matches here have been ruined by rain. This time they had no chance to benefit from early evening bar sales unless there was a surge from disappointed Ireland supporters doggedly making the best of a very poor job.
England lost three wickets carelessly on the way to a humdrum victory. Even as a practice match for sterner tests ahead this summer this contest was of very modest value though Eoin Morgan was too polite to say so. “We just have to take the game for what it is,” Morgan said before packing his bags for London. “Firstly we won and it was Adil’s day. His was a magnificent effort after a tough winter. He bowled with huge confidence using all his variations.Sunday is a big day especially for Ireland and we all love playing at Lord’s.”
Everyone hopes that Ireland can somehow be resuscitated by the prospect of appearing there for the first time. They may benefit from studying Rashid carefully. The lower order, many of them left-handed, showed little sign of being able to spot his googly or top-spinner. Rashid sensed their insecurity and this only added to his confidence. There was a spring in his run-up and a fizz in the air as the ball beguilingly made its way towards increasingly hapless batsmen.
Four of the batsmen failed to make contact with the balls that dismissed them, though Niall O’Brien, given lbw, may dispute that. Tim Murtagh, with the game up, at least managed to hole out to the boundary. Meanwhile Joe Root, masquerading as Jim Laker, took two for nine from his five overs. England’s spinners, on a pitch that offered no significant turn, took seven for 36 from 13 overs, quite a contrast to their experiences in India – and this was with a puzzled Moeen Ali looking on from the pavilion though no one at the outset could quibble with Morgan’s decision to play four pacemen.
Rashid’s five for 27 were the second best figures by an England spinner in this format, behind an equally surprising five for 20 in Wellington, New Zealand in 1984. I am duty bound – and quietly delighted – to let you know who the spinner was on that occasion. It was me. And it did not seem to turn much then either, which may be enough detail for now.
For about 20 minutes it looked as if there might be a contest. Ireland, having won the toss, set off with a spate of boundaries; the ball was not swinging for David Willey and Mark Wood almost had to tack into a strong breeze. Ed Joyce was, of course, graceful and Paul Stirling rustically belligerent.
However an 89mph delivery from Wood soon crashed into the middle and leg stumps of Stirling, who was essaying a cover drive at the time, a clear indication of how the Irish opener likes to play; he gives himself plenty of room to explore the off-side, which can be dangerous at the highest level.
Joyce played around a straight ball from Willey and was lbw. Andy Balbirnie snaffled a few boundaries behind the wicket before edging to Sam Billings, who had an impressively anonymous morning behind the stumps. Meanwhile William Porterfield endured one of those nightmarish innings on a nightmarish day for his team. His timing was all awry; if, perchance, he middled a ball it went straight to a fielder. Having stuttered to 13 from 45 deliveries he drove straight to Liam Plunkett at mid-off in Root’s first over. Thereafter Rashid took over and his googly caused havoc in what he described as “probably my best spell for England”. He remained suitably understated about his success. “Some days it [the googly] comes out well … it all depends on the day.”
A glum Porterfield took understandable refuge in a “we have not become bad players overnight” and he explained: “We knew that he [Rashid] was going to bowl a lot of googlies, especially to the left-handers.” The trouble was that they could not recognise which ones they were.
On the best surface that Morgan has encountered in Bristol, England lost three wickets. Jason Roy clipped to square leg in the first over; Alex Hales, after several lusty blows and the benefit of a dropped catch behind the stumps, sped to 55 before mis-hitting; Morgan was caught hooking into a very strong breeze. In each case Peter Chase was the bowler, the only Irishman here – apart from Morgan – who could look back on the day with any satisfaction.
As Joe Root put the finishing touches to England’s win over Ireland, his brother Billy notched his maiden List A hundred, for Nottinghamshire against Warwickshire in the Royal London Cup.
Billy started the final over of Notts’ innings on 89, before hitting four, six and one off the first three balls to bring up his century from 91 deliveries. He then hit another six as Notts posted 303 for six. It was a contrast to Billy’s previous match last week which ended when Joe hit him for six to seal a seven-wicket win for Yorkshire. Jonathan Trott’s century could not prevent Notts winning by 10 runs
Somerset were in the runs once more with Jim Allenby (144no), Dean Elgar (96) and a 28-ball 54 from James Hildreth helping them to 338 for three against Glamorgan. Kiran Carlson’s first List A fifty was the only score of note in the reply as Somerset won by 170 runs.
Yorkshire suffered their first defeat of the competition thanks to a brilliant hundred from Tom Kohler-Cadmore. His fifth List A hundred helped Worcestershire post 342, which proved 51 too many for Yorkshire.
Northamptonshire secured their first win by pulling off their highest run chase against Lancashire. Alex Wakely’s second List A ton saw them to victory with six wickets and 20 balls to spare.
Daniel Bell-Drummond’s second successive List A 100 for Kent played second fiddle to Laurie Evans’ explosive 134 from 86 deliveries for Sussex. Chasing Kent’s 331 for seven, Evans combined with Harry Finch (80) in a stand of 207 for the fourth wicket. Half-centuries from Kumar Sangakkara, Rory Burns and Ben Foakes saw Surrey home by seven wickets against Middlesex.
Paul Collingwood guided Durham to victory over a resurgent Leicestershire, reaching their target of 212 with five wickets in hand.
José Mourinho has defended his decision to field a weakened team against Arsenal on Sunday, saying that the Manchester United side he picks will “fight for a result” at the Emirates Stadium.
United, who beat Celta Vigo 1-0 in the first leg of their Europa League semi-final on Thursday, are a place and five points ahead of Arsenal (who have a game in hand) and Mourinho said he is aiming to extend that gap with a win, despite the intention to rest several players.
“We are going to try. We are not going to Arsenal to say ‘beat us’ or ‘beat us 5-0 or 6-0.’ We are going there to fight for a result. But it’s impossible not to rest players. I cannot do it in another way. If Celta was playing with their best team, if Celta was fighting for important things in La Liga, we would go in the same circumstances. But I cannot now play with the same team that played at Celta. And then repeat it again next Thursday.
“So, we have to be human with the players, we have to be sensible and [use] common sense in relation to our situation in the Premier League, and I think the last match against Swansea [a 1-1 draw] was our last chance to fight for a top-four place, so I am going to rest players, sure.”
Mourinho also welcomed Arsène Wenger’s wish for peace by stating there is no problem between them. The pair have endured a fraught relationship since the Portuguese entered English football as Chelsea manager in 2004 but on Thursday Wenger had said: “I am open always in life to everything, for peace.”
Mourinho, after the game in Vigo, said: “He doesn’t need to say he is ready to make peace. He doesn’t need to because there are no problems. In the last match at Old Trafford [a 1-1 draw in November], we shook hands before, after – I remember that I still met him in the corridor for the press conferences, we shook hands again. So for me not a problem at all and I think he will be really pleased with me that I am going to change my team against Arsenal. I think he’ll be really happy with me.”
The two managers have a history of clashing. In October 2005 Mourinho branded Wenger a “voyeur” and suggested the Frenchman should concentrate on Arsenal rather than take too much of an interest in Chelsea.
In October 2014 at Stamford Bridge, Wenger pushed Mourinho following a tackle by Gary Cahill on Alexis Sánchez, leading the Portuguese to say: “I told him: ‘Here you do that, you know I can’t react, but I will meet you one day in the street.’” Earlier that year he described Wenger as a “specialist in failure” after the Arsenal manager claimed Mourinho was playing down Chelsea’s title hopes because “they fear to fail”.
Despite this history Mourinho said: “He doesn’t need to make peace. When there is peace, we don’t have to have a problem. I am a big boy, I’m in football all my life, I know a problem on the pitch the next day is not a problem at all.”
Mourinho also suggested David de Gea could play in the Europa League final should United reach it despite Sergio Romero being the regular No1 in the tournament so far.
“I don’t like to say this competition is for one goalkeeper, that competition is for another one,” he said.
“Sergio played one match in the Premier League, David played two matches in the Europa League against Fenerbahce and against Feyenoord, Sergio played also one match in the League Cup, David played the other matches and played the final.
“I don’t like that complete separation. But Sunday, David plays. We have two fantastic goalkeepers, we have a third goalkeeper that I think will be the best Portuguese goalkeeper of the next generation [Joel Pereira]. We have great goalkeepers and [against] anyone in the world I trust [them] completely.”
Lionel Messi is free to represent Argentina in their forthcoming World Cup qualifiers after his suspension for allegedly abusing an assistant referee was overturned on appeal.
The 29-year-old Barcelona striker was banned from four international matches and fined 10,000 Swiss francs (£8,100) for supposedly “having directed insulting words” at an official during Argentina’s World Cup qualifying meeting with Chile on 23 March. He was banned for the subsequent 2-0 loss to Bolivia as a result but will return to contention as under-performing Argentina prepare for crucial meetings with Uruguay, Venezuela and Peru as they fight to secure a place at next summer’s World Cup finals in Russia.
A statement from the sport’s world governing body, Fifa, published on Friday read: “The Fifa appeal committee has upheld the appeal lodged by the Argentinian Football Association, on behalf of the player Lionel Messi, against the decision taken by the Fifa disciplinary committee, lifting the sanctions imposed on him as a result.”
During the Chile game, Messi was caught on camera venting his fury at an assistant who signalled he had committed a foul late on in Argentina’s 1-0 win. He was not shown a card at the time.
Despite upholding Argentina’s appeal the Fifa committee stressed it “considered Messi’s behaviour as reproachable” but concluded “the evidence available was not sufficient to establish” an infringement had occurred.
The statement continued: “The Appeal Committee nevertheless underlines the importance of always showing respect to the match officials, stressing that such a principle is essential in football and any unsporting conduct that may be contrary to the principles of fair play cannot be accepted.”
When Messi was first punished his club Barcelona released an angry statement expressing their “surprise and outrage”, adding that the Rosario-born forward was an “exemplary sportsman”. His availability for international duty could be a mixed blessing for the Catalans, however.
Argentina, currently without a head coach following the April departure of Edgardo Bauza, risk missing out on automatic qualification for 2018 World Cup and to that end the trip to Uruguay in late August will be vital. If picked, Messi will remain in South America to face Venezuela on 5 September.
By the time the Albiceleste tackle Peru in October they will have hoped to climb into the top four places in the Conmebol standings, while Barça will be suitably keen to see their player return to Spain uninjured.
Meanwhile, Barcelona have been boosted by the return of captain Andrés Iniesta for the must-win game against a Villarreal side who have made a habit of taking points off Spain’s top sides this season.
Iniesta missed the wins over Osasuna and Espanyol with muscle discomfort but the Barcelona coach Luis Enrique confirmed the 32-year-old was fit to play on Saturday as Barça seek to defend their slender lead over Real Madrid at the top of the standings.
Champions Barça are top due to their superior head-to-head record with Real although Zinedine Zidane’s side, also on 81 points, have a game in hand as they bid for their first title since 2012. Villarreal are fifth on 63 points and have won five of their last six games.
Fran Escriba’s side earned a 1-1 draw at Real Madrid in September to end the hosts’ 16-game winning streak in the league and took a 2-0 lead over Real in February before losing 3-2.
Only a stoppage-time free-kick from Messi denied Villarreal victory over Barça in January, forcing a 1-1 draw. They are also the only team in the league this season to win both league games against Atlético Madrid and held fourth-placed Sevilla to two draws.
“I don’t just focus on that (their record against the top four) but in what they do as a team. They are very organised with the ball and are very good at defending deep,” Luis Enrique told a news conference on Friday.
“If you look at their numbers and how they play you realise they are one of the most difficult teams to face in the league. It’s the most difficult game because it’s the next one and it’s going to be a really hard game against a team hoping to qualify for the Champions League.”
Injury had threatened to wreck the Australian’s big-money move to England but, once fully fit again, he displayed fizzing class virtually every time he touched the ball. Could have made the team of the year at No12 or No15 and will be missed when he returns to Australia after only one season. Bristol’s Jason Woodward also deserves a mention.
It has been a vintage Premiership year for wings with Sale’s Denny Solomona, Bath’s Semesa Rokoduguni and the Exeter pair of Olly Woodburn and James Short all contenders. Ashton, though, has had to show great resilience to recover from his international disappointments. Has scored nine league tries this season, seven of them in his side’s last six games.
Until last week this shirt was safely in the possession of the Lions-bound Elliot Daly. The lightning-quick Marchant, though, undeniably outshone his classy Wasps counterpart at The Stoop and has looked consistently dangerous all season long. A place on this summer’s England tour to Argentina should yield a Test cap for the 20-year-old; it is unlikely to be his last.
With Danny Cipriani returning to Wasps, no one was quite sure how Dai Young would accommodate both his playmakers. In the end Gopperth has played in almost every game, harvested more points than anyone else in the league and been an excellent foil for the creative Cipriani. Brad Barritt ran him close but the New Zealander, 34 next month, has been influential on multiple fronts.
The only side Wade cannot get into is the one coached by Eddie Jones. No one in the northern hemisphere buzzes with more electricity with ball in hand and a tryline in sight. With 16 tries in 20 league games he is miles ahead of everyone else in this season’s try-scoring charts; at this rate England will have to take a fresh look at some stage.
By rights Farrell should not be eligible; because of injury and Test calls he played only six league games. It did not prevent his fellow pros nominating him for the RPA player’s player award and his growing authority makes him virtually impossible to leave out of any XV at present. Farrell is as certain a Test Lion as any going to New Zealand this summer.
Bath have run hot and cold all season but their experienced Samoan scrum-half has been beyond reproach. Why Northampton let him go is a mystery: there is no slicker distributor in the league and the cute chip and classic no-look pass that created tries against Gloucester on Sunday were further evidence of the 34-year-old’s high-quality box of tricks.
Along with brother Billy, Vunipola gives Saracens an extra turbo-charged forward dimension. Power, mobility, soft hands, a decent right boot … there are international centres who would envy his skillset. His scrummaging also continues to improve and even the All Blacks are set to be impressed this summer. Joe Marler also remains a flinty operator.
Lions recognition is no more than the energetic George deserves. He has had to be exceedingly patient with England and has still not started a Test but, in concert with Schalk Brits, he gives Saracens unrivalled service. Richard Hibbard has been unflinching for Gloucester and Tommy Taylor has enjoyed a good season for Wasps but George’s star is steadily rising.
Worcester have spent the season at the wrong end of the table but few would dispute the strength of their South African-born tighthead. The 25-year-old Schonert is eligible for England via a grandmother from Reading and is very much one to watch. Saracens’ Juan Figallo and Vincent Koch have also proved shrewd signings.
It is slightly scary to think Itoje is only 22. If he is destined for a dip in form there is no immediate sign of it; onwards and upwards he soars, a cross between a vast flying octopus and Anthony Joshua. He is a particular menace when the opposing side have the ball and it will be fascinating to see how he responds to the formidable Lions challenge awaiting the youngest man on tour this summer.
With George Kruis’s game-time having been curtailed by injury and Joe Launchbury’s Premiership availability for Wasps also restricted, Lawes has enjoyed a resurgence for club and country. If Saints have too often flattered to deceive, their human wrecking ball has looked revitalised. His discipline is also better; he has not been given a yellow card in the league for the past three seasons.
The Chiefs are under-represented in this side relative to their lofty league position but the relentless Zimbabwe-born back-row simply cannot be ignored. Catching lineout balls and restarts, carrying hard, staunch defending, galloping the length of the field: he does the lot without breaking stride. Desperately unlucky not to be on England’s trip to Argentina.
The departure of George Smith should have cramped Wasps’ style but his example lives on: Young Jr appears to have learned plenty from the Australian as well as his father, Dai. He was involved with the Wales squad during the Six Nations, covers an enormous amount of ground and has the second-highest tackle count in the league after Newcastle’s Mark Wilson.

There are good reasons to select Louis Picamoles on the basis of his forceful first season for Northampton since arriving from France. When Billy plays, however, his influence on games is unmatched; he is fitter, more focused and a fast-maturing force. With his cousin Taulupe Faletau and Gloucester’s Ross Moriarty also touring with the Lions, the Premiership is not short of quality muscle.
St Kilda returned to Friday night footy in style, stunning Greater Western Sydney with a 23-point upset win at Etihad Stadium. The Saints trailed by a goal at three-quarter time but exploded in the final term, booting six goals to one on the way to a 16.12 (108) to 12.13 (85) victory.
Jack Steven (29 disposals, two goals) was dominant in the midfield, half-back Dylan Roberton continued his stellar season and young forward Blake Acres sparked the Saints’ fourth-quarter run with consecutive goals.
With a crowd of 21,160 in attendance, it was the Saints’ best win for the year, and one that showed they belonged on the Friday night stage after a year-long absence.
There was little separating the two sides during a fast-paced start but problems soon emerged for the Giants, with defender Adam Kennedy suffering a game-ending knee injury midway through the first quarter. The 24-year-old appeared to be in immense discomfort after landing awkwardly during a marking contest and was on crutches in the rooms.
The Giants were soon reduced to two players on the interchange bench when Nathan Wilson’s head was slammed into the turf in an aggressive Koby Stevens tackle. The tackle was deemed fair at the time – Stevens won a holding-the-ball free kick as a result of it – but the incident is bound to be scrutinised by the match review panel.
Wilson went to the rooms for concussion tests but returned after half-time and was immediately in the thick of the action, setting up a Rory Lobb goal to extend the Giants’ narrow lead.
The plucky Saints refused to go away but struggled to convert their chances, with back-to-back turnovers from Giants veteran Heath Shaw going unpunished.
St Kilda levelled the scores late in the third term before Devon Smith’s 60m bomb kept the Giants ahead at the final break. But the final term belonged to St Kilda, with Acres booting two majors in as many minutes on the back of Steven’s outstanding midfield work.
Steven capped off a best-on-ground performance with his second goal to put the icing on the cake as the Saints moved in to the top eight.
It was a rough comedown for GWS after their thrilling Friday night victory over the Western Bulldogs last week. Stephen Coniglio, Tom Scully and Callan Ward were all impressive but the Giants couldn’t overcome the Saints’ fanatical pressure.
Jürgen Klopp has said he is optimistic the impasse over Emre Can’s new contract will be broken and the midfielder will commit his long-term future to Liverpool.
The Germany international enters the final 12 months of his current deal this summer having so far resisted signing a contract extension at Anfield. Despite failing to get an agreement after several months of talks, and the financial risk of allowing a player to enter his final year of contract, Liverpool are prepared to keep Can this summer regardless of whether he signs.
Can’s position in the Liverpool team rather than finances are understood to be behind the stand-off, with the 23-year-old keen to play a deeper midfield role. But Klopp is confident the midfielder, who enhanced Liverpool’s Champions League ambitions with a stunning winner at Watford on Monday, will eventually sign the deal on offer.
“After his bicycle kick probably everyone wants him to stay,” the Liverpool manager said. “I think it is no secret how much I like Emre. He likes the club and that is a completely normal situation. We are in talks and there is absolutely no pressure, it is all good. It is two partners with big respect for each other. If we can keep good players that makes sense for development and he is one of these good players. I am quite positive.”
As for that exquisite bicycle kick at Vicarage Road, Klopp added: “He’s watched it on the iPad about 250 times. The player scores a fantastic goal and we speak about him the week after. The goal was so important and so deserved. He is a hard-working boy, it was never any different. He always had a fantastic attitude which is what I liked most. The plan is to make a more simple goal in the next game. If you can do this it would make sense. Against Crystal Palace he had a chance with one of the best offensive moves we had and he hit the ball with his heel – that’s football. We have spoken about his calf issues and they are hopefully finally sorted, so that helps him.”
Philippe Coutinho limped out of the Watford game having suffered a dead leg but is on course to feature against Southampton at Anfield on Sunday. Klopp confirmed: “Yesterday was the first time for Phil running – he ran a bit like (goalkeeping coach) John Achterberg! Good news. We cannot be 100% sure but at this moment it looks rather positive.”
Australia sounded a pre-World Cup warning to rival nations with a comprehensive 30-12 defeat over New Zealand in the final Anzac Test on Friday night. However the win – on a night skipper Cameron Smith celebrated his 50th Test – was soured by a possible fractured cheekbone to Josh Dugan that could rule him out of State of Origin.
The St George Illawarra star came from the GIO Stadium field midway through the second half after clashing heads with Kiwis prop and club-mate Russell Packer and failed to return. His injury was the only low point on a dominant night for the world No1 nation, who raced to a 30-0 lead before taking their foot off the pedal and allowing the Kiwis two consolation tries.
Almost one year after breaking a three-game losing streak against the Kiwis in Newcastle, a crowd of 18,535 watched the home side make it five straight wins against the world No2. Johnathan Thurston showed no lingering effects of a calf issue by setting up two tries, while second-rowers Boyd Cordner and Matt Gillett also turned in strong defensive efforts. Blake Ferguson continued his Four Nations form with a game-high 214 metres.
Up 24-0 at the break, the Kangaroos appeared on their way to a record victory when Jake Trbojevic took a no-look pass from Cooper Cronk soon after resumption. But the Dugan exit coincided with a mini fightback from the visitors, who scored the final two tries through Simon Mannering and Roger Tuivasa-Sheck.
On a night they fielded arguably their strongest side in recent memory following the anticipated return of Kieran Foran, the Kiwis disappointed. They have now won just one of their past eight Tests.
Dugan opened the scoring in spectacular fashion when he soared to take Thurston’s cross-field kick, and Ferguson doubled the advantage with a 90-metre intercept soon after The visitors twice had opportunities to steal momentum, but Tuivasa-Sheck was held up over the line and Shaun Johnson’s bat-on was ruled forward in the same set
The failures opened the floodgates in defence, with Will Chambers scooting through untouched following Sam Thaiday’s 30-metre break, and Tyson Frizell completing the four-try half-time lead
Earlier, the Jillaroos avenged last year’s Test loss to the Kiwi Ferns with a gritty 16-4 win. The Australians continued their dominance of the Ferns from the Auckland Nines whitewash earlier in the year and turned the tables on last year’s 26-16 loss by winning a bruising curtain-raiser to Friday’s Anzac Test.
Ferns skipper and star fullback Sarina Fiso was well below her best in the first half, with her game blighted by crucial handling errors. She dropped an easy ball deep in defence, allowing the Jillaroos to build pressure and forcing a clearing kick which was pounced on by Australia fullback Isabelle Kelly.
Kelly, who was on debut after Sam Bremner withdrew late with injury, burst through the defensive line to score a superb try under the posts. The Ferns hit back when Atawhai Tupaea crashed over in the 25th minute but it didn’t take long for the Jillaroos to regain control.
Fiso bungled a high ball allowing Jillaroos five-eighth Zahara Temara to swoop and score under the posts just before the half-hour mark. Caitlin Moran added the two points to give the Jillaroos as 12-4 lead which they took to the break.
Jillaroos forward Renae Kunst’s hard-running was rewarded 11 minutes into the second half as they forced her way over the line to extend the lead to the eventual winning margin.
Australia were strong in defence, repelling the Ferns in a dour second half as the crowd built steadily ahead of the men’s Test. Jillaroos skipper Ruan Sims was named best afield after leading her side’s pack through the middle in a tough encounter.
Everton have honoured their commitment to a new five-year contract for Séamus Coleman while the defender recovers from a double fracture to his right leg.
The Republic of Ireland captain signed the new deal on Friday having had just over two years remaining on his previous contract. Coleman had agreed terms, but not signed, before the recent international games when his leg was broken in two places by Wales’ Neil Taylor during a World Cup qualifier in Dublin.
Everton’s chairman, Bill Kenwright, reassured the 28-year-old on the night of the injury that his contract remained on the table. The agreement gives Coleman a major lift as he begins a long rehabilitation process and would ensure the £60,000 signing from Sligo Rovers serves 13 years at Goodison Park.
Coleman said: “It’s a special club that means a lot to me. Everything had been agreed and I was due to sign it after the international break but unfortunately I got the injury. The chairman messaged me the night of my injury and said ‘Don’t worry about it because when you come back this contract is still waiting for you’. That sums up what the chairman and this club is all about.
“Farhad Moshiri [Everton’s major shareholder] also sent me cards and said the support was always going to be there. I’m delighted with how the club has handled the situation. Knowing that I was going to come back and sign it has definitely helped things. It’s a massive boost and gives me something to fight for. I want to prove my worth when I come back and show the club were right for rewarding me with this long-term contract.”
The right back, who has made 247 appearances for Everton, was allowed a month at home in Donegal to recuperate from surgery and returned to Finch Farm last week to step up training. “It’s a case of not doing too much too soon – it’s just baby steps at the moment – but I am getting on well so far,” added Coleman. “I’m starting to put more weight through the leg and I have got no pain. I’m back doing a good bit in the gym and in the pool. I’m doing exercise every day, so the recovery has well and truly started. I’m really looking forward to putting on that blue shirt again.”
Fernando Alonso smiled as he got out of the cockpit at the Indianapolis Motor Speedway on Wednesday. That was good to see. A hundred laps of the two-and-a-half-mile high-speed oval had given him all the evidence he needed that driving a racing car could still be a fun thing to do.
A couple of weeks ago, fed up with waiting for McLaren-Honda to give him a competitive Formula One car, Alonso announced that he intended to skip the Monaco Grand Prix – a race of supreme commercial importance to all F1 teams and their sponsors – on 28 May in order to compete for the first time in the Indianapolis 500, which occupies the same date.
For the team, the decision to give their consent – and even to back his entry – meant keeping their No1 driver happy. For Alonso, it offers a break from his F1 purgatory and a chance to make his mark in another arena. For the Indy 500, his arrival is the best thing since the wave of publicity generated in 1993 when Nigel Mansell, as the newly crowned F1 champion, switched codes and came within one botched late-race restart of winning the 500 at his first attempt.
On Sunday night, after the latest McLaren humiliation in Sochi, when his car broke down on the way to the starting grid, Alonso headed straight to Indianapolis. And on Wednesday, in a very smart promotional coup, anyone around the world with internet access could watch several hours of live YouTube transmission devoted to his first outing on an oval track.
A private session had been set up for the rookie orientation programme which all those new to the race, even 35-year-old two-time F1 champions, are required to complete. Waiting for him at the otherwise deserted track were an orange Dallara-Honda and a crew from Andretti Autosport, the team run by Michael Andretti, who is the son of the former world champion and Indy winner Mario Andretti and was himself briefly an F1 driver with McLaren in 1993. Twelve months ago the team pulled off a surprise victory with the rookie driver Alexander Rossi, and Alonso will be part of their six-car entry for this year’s race.
Wednesday’s activities gave the answer to those wondering whether anyone would want to turn on the television to watch a single car going round an otherwise deserted track consisting of four left-hand turns, two long straights and two short ones, on a dull weekday morning with no spectators in the vast grandstands. But some two million people apparently did. “Thanks for taking time off work today,” one of the commentators said.
This was, in effect, a driving test. To meet the orientation requirements, Alonso had to complete 10 laps at an average speed of between 205-210mph, then 15 at 210-215mph, and finally 15 more at 215-220mph. Observers would be assessing not just speed but consistency and control. During his second stint, Alonso reeled off five consecutive laps in the tiny margin between 219.345mph and 219.503mph. “That’s a race pace, right there,” Mario Andretti declared, watching from the TV suite. “He’s the real deal,” said his son.
It might be imagined that the Indianapolis oval could offer little in the way of a challenge to a man used to testing his skills on the varied layouts of Spa, Monza and Monaco. But conquering the Brickyard – nicknamed after its original track surface – is more than just a matter of pressing the pedal to the metal and driving round in circles for three hours, with a few stops for fuel and tyres on the way. That’s why they give rookies a test. Alonso will have to learn about trimming his car to handle the variations in wind speed and direction and barometric pressure that can radically affect the car’s behaviour, and about running in heavy traffic through the banked turns.
He will discover, as Mansell did, that rolling restarts after yellow-flag periods are ferociously and sometimes decisively competitive affairs. Perhaps the only easier aspect will be pit stops lasting seven or eight seconds, compared with the two and a half seconds it takes an F1 crew to change all four wheels. “He’ll have time to eat a sandwich,” Mario Andretti observed.
For the purist, the sight of a great driver reeling off the laps while getting to grips with a new challenge was a compelling one, and not without incident. Having twitched visibly when a pigeon flew across his path on the main straight early in the day, he managed to hold the car rock-steady at around 240mph during his last run when a brace of them made simultaneous contact in a sudden explosion of feathers.
Several F1 champions have measured themselves against this great American institution. Jim Clark, Graham Hill and Emerson Fittipaldi all won the race. Others, including Juan Manuel Fangio and Jochen Rindt, never felt comfortable there. Ayrton Senna tested an Indy car in Arizona in 1992 but left it at that. As one of the two or three most gifted F1 drivers of his generation, Alonso is certainly capable of joining the winners, in partial compensation for the world titles he has so far failed – through poor career decisions – to add to those he secured in 2005 and 2006.
The all-orange paint job of his No29 car this week evoked that of the vehicle with which, back in 1976, the US driver Johnny Rutherford gave McLaren their first victory in the Indy 500. The new machine looked great, not least because the current technical regulations wisely prohibit the absurdly elaborate aerodynamic devices that clutter the outline of today’s F1 machines.
As with the machinery, so with the ambiance, which has none of F1’s preciousness and pomposity. Alonso seemed to like it. “They ask you if you’re ready inside the car, you say yes, you switch on the car and you go,” he reported. The TV crew was allowed to stay close, capturing his first informal debriefs with the team. The decision to put the session live on the internet, and the intimacy of the coverage, made a telling contrast with F1’s historic policy of strictly limited access, mandated by Bernie Ecclestone.
There will be a lot for Alonso to absorb during the 500’s qualifying week, which starts on 15 May. If he gets through it, he will be given a memorable welcome by the 400,000 spectators gathered at the Brickyard on the Memorial Day weekend. But he will never forget the day he ran there for the first time, all alone, with the world watching.
Novak Djokovic has announced he will part company with three of his longtime coaching staff with immediate effect.
A statement on the Serb’s website on Friday confirmed that the coach Marian Vajda, fitness coach Gebhard Phil Gritsch and physiotherapist Miljan Amanovic will end their association. It follows “a detailed analysis of the game, achieved results in the previous period, and also after discussing private plans of each team member. Despite the fantastic cooperation so far, Djokovic felt he needed to make a change, and to introduce new energy in order to raise his level of play.”
Djokovic added: “I am forever grateful to Marian, GG and Miljan for a decade of friendship, professionalism and commitment to my career goals. Without their support I couldn’t have achieved these professional heights. I know they completely dedicated themselves and their lives to help me achieve my dreams and they were always my driving force and wind in my back. It was not an easy decision, but we all felt that we need a change. I am very grateful and proud of our relationship and unbreakable bond that we built through years of mutual love, respect and understanding. They are my family and that will never change.”
Vajda, from Slovakia, is a former professional who began coaching Djokovic in 2006 before being replaced by Boris Becker. Vajda remained part of the coaching team, however, and was with Djokovic at last month’s Monte Carlo Masters, where he was beaten in the quarter-finals by David Goffin.
“Time spent with Novak feels like a whole lifetime,” said Vajda. “We were part of many of his incredible achievements, we were living and breathing for his dreams. I gave everything I could as a coach and I am very proud of our results. We arrived to the point where we all realised we need new energy in the team. Novak can do so much more and I am sure he will.”
Last November, Djokovic enlisted the help of the former Spanish player Pepe Imaz, who preaches a philosophy of amor y paz (love and peace) as central to his coaching. In his statement, the world No2 added that he believes this “shock therapy” will help him achieve better results, although he intends to take his time in selecting a new coach.
“I want to continue raising the level of my game and stamina and this is a continuous process,” said Djokovic. “I enjoy this journey, it feels like I am starting something new again and I love this challenge. I am a hunter and my biggest goal is to find the winning spark on the court again.
“I have so much faith in this process and that’s why I will take time to find the right person who I can connect with professionally. I have been on the tour long enough to know how to manage daily routines and I don’t want to rush my decision. I will be on the tour alone for a while with support of my family and management. I will inform the public when I find the right person, but for now I thank you for your support and understanding.”
North Wales police have charged former British tennis professional Dan Sanders with eight offences of sexual activity with a child.
In a short statement, Detective Sergeant Jane Bowyer-Jones confirmed that “a 42-year-old man from Wrexham” has been charged with the offences and is due to appear before Wrexham magistrates court on 31 May.
Sanders played on the lower levels of the men’s circuit in the 1990s and, according to the Daily Mail, once reached the final of a minor doubles event in Morocco with the former British No1 Tim Henman.
Sanders played his last professional game in May 1996 and has more recently been coaching in Wales.
A spokesperson for the Lawn Tennis Association, the sport’s governing body, said: “We are not able to comment on any ongoing police investigation. We take all matters involving the welfare and safety of children extremely seriously, and we are committed to providing a safe environment for all of our employees and players.”
Leicester have made an offer to buy the Belgian second division side OH Leuven as the owners of the reigning Premier League champions attempt to expand their influence in European football.
According to Belgian newspaper HLN, Aiyawatt Srivaddhanaprabha, the son of Leicester owner Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha and the club’s vice-chairman, has offered “a multiple of £2m” to purchase Leuven, who were relegated from the Jupiler League last season. That has yet to be accepted, although a delegation from Belgium has been invited to watch Leicester’s game against Watford at the King Power Stadium on Saturday.
It is understood that Srivaddhanaprabha would like to rebuild Leuven, which is located in a vibrant student city, to act as a feeder club for Leicester and eventually challenge for qualification for European competition. He is believed to have promised to provide a substantial transfer budget and aspires to build a brand new stadium and new training complex amid competition from a group of Chinese investors, the Shanghai Naisi Investment Management Centre.
They submitted an offer of £2m to purchase Leuven in January and are thought to have exclusivity until the end of June, although they have yet to respond to questions posed by Leuven’s board and the city council, meaning Srivaddhanaprabha’s offer could prove more attractive.
Last month, Manchester City announced the latest addition to their growing portfolio of clubs after completing the acquisition of a second division club in Uruguay.
The late, great horse racing writer Jay Cronley liked to say that you could be walking around lucky and not even know it. On no day of the year could that luck mean more for you than on the first Saturday in May, when the Kentucky Derby is run every year.
The 143rd edition of the Kentucky Derby on Saturday will be your next chance to make a life-changing score in a mere two minutes. Whether you will be looking to Let It Ride – the iconic 1989 horse racing movie was based on Cronley’s book Good Vibes – or just want to sound smart at your Derby party, here’s five key things to know about the race going into the gate:
The past few years have presented us with clear favorites emerging from the prep season, and that form has held true as favorites have won the past four Kentucky Derbys.
But this season the prep races have been dominated by high-priced longshots, leaving the division in chaos. The Derby favorite heading into 2017 was the two-year-old champion, Classic Empire, but he lost his first race of the season and then missed training time to injury. He came back to win the Arkansas Derby last month, leading many to jump back on the bandwagon; he’s been installed as the 4-1 morning line favorite. This could be the best year to look at longshots since I’ll Have Another won at 15-1 odds in 2012.
If there’s one thing horseplayers are good at, it’s outsmarting themselves. This can be especially true in a race as complex as the Derby, which features a field of 20 horses with very little experience overall and none going the demanding classic distance of 10 furlongs (1¼ miles). So let’s keep it simple with a statement we can all agree on: Fast horses beat slow horses.
“Duh!”
The trick is in knowing how to measure the speed of the horses. The industry standard method is with Beyer Speed Figures, pioneered by Andy Beyer and published exclusively in the Daily Racing Form for all North American horse races. Among the 20 horses running Saturday, these three are the only ones to have surpassed the 100 mark on the Beyer scale:
Being fast in the early stages of a race can be a huge advantage, but sometimes it’s better to have a late closing kick instead. Horses with early speed have had an advantage in recent years, ending a string of victories by late-running closers. In addition to the Beyer figures, the DRF also publishes TimeformUS pace figures. The horse’s with the best chance to be out front early according to TimeFormUS are Irish War Cry, State of Honor and Battle of Midway. Take note: Irish War Cry has shown up on both lists so far.
There are two jockeys in this field looking to win the Derby for a fourth time: Kent Desormeaux aboard Sonneteer and Victor Espinoza on Gormley. As the rider of recent winners California Chrome and American Pharoah, look for Espinoza to garner a good deal of support at the windows. Two-time winner Mario Gutierrez will be looking to join them in the three-win club aboard Irap. Javier Castellano has won the Eclipse Award for nation’s best jockey the past four years running but has never finished first, second or third in the Derby. He’ll try to end that drought with Gunnevera.
If there is one betting pool that demands your attention on Derby Day it’s the superfecta. Hitting the superfecta is no small feat, requiring you to pick the first four horses to cross the finish line in order. But it’s probably the one wager that horseplayers look forward to the most every year in the Derby. Just look at the payouts the past seven years for $1:
The superfecta wager carries a $1 minimum for the Derby as opposed to the 10-cent superfectas on regular days. So it won’t be cheap. Just make sure to include Irish War Cry in there somewhere.
Ralph Beckett has been accused of slapping Australian racing in the face with a fish, after he posted an incendiary blog on his website suggesting that the lack of Australian entries at Royal Ascot this year is a result of tighter rules on steroid use in that country. The Hampshire-based trainer suggests that Australian participation in the Group One sprint races at the Royal meeting might now be a thing of the past and that some of their winners there may have benefited from doses of steroids during their careers, a suggestion which has previously been denied by some of the trainers involved.
Beckett’s blog was intended to enlarge on a recent tweet in which he asked of Australian winners at Ascot: “Were they really, really good, or were they really, really medicated?” He points out that, until 2013, Australian rules allowed racehorses to be treated with anabolic steroids, so long as they were no longer detected in a horse’s system when it raced. That situation changed in September of that year, when Australian racing announced a flat ban on anabolic steroid use, to take effect from May 2014.
“Since that happened,” Beckett writes, “the number of Australian horses arriving here to run at Royal Ascot has fallen off a cliff, to the point where this year there are not any entries ... I hope we see plenty of Australian sprinters running here again – but I doubt it will happen. Though it is unlikely either that we will hear the line that was often trotted out about Australians improving European horses when they arrived down under. Come to think of it, we stopped hearing that a couple of years ago.”
As for Australian successes at Royal Ascot over the past 15 years, Beckett writes: “Nobody involved in the industry here, (or anywhere else) believes that the aforementioned Australian sprinters didn’t get ‘help’ when out of training. (Steroids only show up for three months on a blood picture). Nor is anyone accusing their trainers of cheating. They were acting within their rules, it just so happened that they weren’t our rules, but they were running under our rules of racing. There is the same issue with the US where steroids are still legally given to horses out of training, yet runners are invited from there too.”
From 2003 to 2012, there were six Australian-trained winners of Ascot’s valuable sprint races. Questions about steroid use by visiting Australian trainers have been raised before and Beckett is hardly the first British trainer to express concern, Mark Johnston, Roger Charlton and Hughie Morrison having also spoken on the subject in years past.
Peter Moody, who trained Black Caviar to win the Diamond Jubilee in 2012, has insisted she had never been given steroids. Joe Janiak conceded that his Takeover Target, the King’s Stand winner of 2006, had been given a steroid to help him over the effects of travelling to Hong Kong later in his career, prompting a positive test, but denied there was any performance enhancement as a result. He refused to say whether he had used the same drug prior to the horse’s victory at Ascot.
Both Ascot and the British Horseracing Authority have declined to comment on Beckett’s blog.
It is known that some Australian connections were interested in bringing horses to Ascot this year. Jameka, for example, was ruled out only after suffering travel sickness in late March. Winx, who has won her last 17 races, has been linked with a visit to Ascot next year. Both horses began their careers after Australia brought in its ban on anabolic steroid use.
Beckett’s blog has already drawn a frosty reception from Australia, including from the Victoria-based trainer Sam Pritchard-Gordon, who tweeted: “Nicely written article; that holds the Oz hand while slapping its face with a fish!” He and others suggested that the excellent prize money on offer in Australia was the main reason for horses not travelling to Britain. Beckett responded: “Our prize money was always poor, so how does that explain the lack of entries now?”
Turning to today’s action, the aforementioned Mark Johnston might be a good man to follow. The Middleham man didn’t make the strong start to the Flat season that I quite expected and his strike-rate for April ended at a modest 14%. But it looks like his horses needed either a first run or a couple more weeks because he’s had 11 winners at a 20% rate in the past fortnight.
Election Day (4.00) runs for him at Musselburgh and can build on his reappearance second, when he might have bumped into a useful John Gosden sort at Beverley. The three-year-old, who won his final two starts last year as a juvenile, is 11-8.
An hour earlier, 6-5 is fine about Atteq (3.00), who hosed up last week at Beverley and goes again under a penalty. Richard Fahey stuck a tongue tie on him for the first time last week and, on the basis that that made the difference, another big run seems on the cards.
Johnston’s Highly Sprung (3.40) could appreciate the greater emphasis on early speed at Lingfield, having been reeled in by a couple of rivals over a furlong further at Leicester last time. He’s back down to the mark from which he won at Yarmouth in September, since when his rating peaked 10lb higher than it is today. He’s 9-2.
Half an hour later, Bumptious (4.10) seems popular at 4-1 from an early 13-2. A half-sister to the useful Godolphin beast Wedding Ring, she must have needed her third maiden run last month, her first outing for more than a year, but it would be no surprise if Ismail Mohammed has her ready for this handicap debut.
Roger Varian reports this morning that his stable star, Postponed, has suffered a stress fracture and will not race again. The Newmarket trainer said the six-year-old “has been a magnificent racehorse to have in the yard and it has been both a pleasure and privilege to oversee the second phase of his career. I am very grateful to Sheikh Mohammed Obaid for allowing me that opportunity and to Postponed himself for proving such a willing and talented ally.
“A stress fracture like this wouldn’t usually be a career-ending injury – except that it’s May and he’s six, and we don’t want to take unnecessary risks with him. He’s done us all proud, and we owe him a great debt of gratitude.”
Varian inherited Postponed from Luca Cumani a couple of years ago, after the owner decided to move his horses. The horse won a King George at Ascot for Cumani, then added a Sheema Classic, a Coronation Cup and a Juddmonte International for Varian. But he was a disappointing fifth in the Arc in October, having started as favourite, and did not recover his best form in Dubai this spring.
Tony Paley: The Flat season finally takes centre stage on the British racing scene this weekend when horses hurtle down the famous Rowley Mile straight at Newmarket in the Guineas. The publication of the respected Timeform’s latest Racehorses annual is another indication of the changing seasons, from the jumps to action on the level, but it’s a jockey rather than a horse that earns particular attention in the introduction to their volume, which traditionally focuses on the sport’s big talking points.
Hayley Turner was the first female jockey to ride 100 winners in a season and Amy Ryan became the first woman to win the apprentice riders’ championship in 2012 but both are no longer in the saddle. Timeform believe the latest addition to the ranks of top women riders still has prejudice to overcome.
“The talented Josephine Gordon won the latest apprentice title convincingly and, having ridden out her claim, looks set to enjoy a good career, even in the face of British racing’s chauvinistic attitude to women,” state Timeform, who highlight one area of particular concern.
“She rode for over a hundred different trainers in 2016,” they point out, “including Sir Michael Stoute and Hugo Palmer, and had her first of several rides for Godolphin – a winning one – just days after trainer John Berry had raised a touchy subject when suggesting that Muslim owners, in particular, have a bias against female jockeys and ‘because nearly all of the best Flat horses in Britain are owned by Muslims, it means women jockeys don’t get rides in big races very often’.”
Gordon is definitely not in favour of the decision of the French racing authorities to introduce a 2kg (4.4lb allowance) for female jockeys (outside the top races) from this season, saying she found the idea ‘a little offensive’ but that move is one that will be closely monitored.
A female rider regularly riding in the Classics will be one indicator that times have changed. Meanwhile, it wouldn’t feel like a normal 2,000 Guineas without an Aidan O’Brien-trained favourite and the classy Churchill will be the powerful Ballydoyle stable runner heading the betting on Saturday.
Timeform’s essay on the classy colt Churchill includes a digression, and the annuals are crammed with such delights, on the racing history of Winston Churchill, the towering political figure he was named after - someone who only came to racehorse ownership at the age of 75. “Politics, by the way,” point out Timeform, “meant that Churchill was forced to miss seeing Dark Issue win the Irish 1,000 Guineas – ‘The General Election was my owner, and I was already entered among the runners’.”
The six-page read on Churchill includes a reminder, during the 2017 ‘election campaign, that our “current prime minister Theresa May and her husband [enjoyed] success as [racehorse] owners in the mid-’nineties [when Dome Patrol officially ran in the name of a syndicate].” May told the Daily Telegraph it was “the most surprising thing about her” in a survey the newspaper conducted into the Tory leadership candidates in July.
Timeform believe that Churchill’s “prospects of proving fully effective over much further than a mile – and of making up into a viable Derby candidate - are not obvious. The 2,000 Guineas looks the Classic for him at this stage.”
It is the comments on the Guineas favourite’s stable companion, Caravaggio, that are most revealing about the O’Brien modus operandi. Timeform think “Churchill might feel very short-changed as merely being described by the trailer as ‘a very special colt’,” especially as they point out that the trainer has form where “hyperbole – an exaggerated statement not to be taken literally” is concerned. O’Brien, in recent times, has said of Australia: “We’ve never had a horse like this”; of Gleneagles “as exciting a miler as we’ve had,” and of Caravaggio: “the fastest we’ve ever had”.
O’Brien’s comments on Caravaggio come in for particularly close scrutiny. Timeform point out that the trainer said: “In his last piece of work [before winning the Phoenix Stakes at The Curragh last August] Caravaggio hit a top speed of 45 miles per hour – no horse in Ballydoyle has ever been able to do that,” but in their essay on Caravaggio, the form ratings and speed figure experts write: “The essay on Kingman in Racehorses of 2014 suggests the colt ran to a speed of just over 44 miles per hour, widely regarded as the limit of a thoroughbred’s capabilities.
“O’Brien’s oft-heard decrees of greatness for a particular season’s star performer have clearly been made with an attentive eye on the horse’s future career as a Coolmore [stud] stallion.”
Comments in the entry on Limato (“Timeform’s assessment of the going often differs from the official, with clerks of the course relying more on subjective judgment informed by going stick readings taken before racing – but not during – and are often hours old by the time of racing”) have a familiar ring. A decade ago during the 2007 season – the wettest in recent times – there were pleas from many, including Timeform for an investigation into the issue of going reports.
Timeform’s conclusion “that little has changed since 2007 to address the need to provide accurate going reports all the way through [a race meeting], which would be of obvious interest and relevance to owners, trainers and punters alike” are a damning indictment of the sport.
‘Racehorses of 2016’, with ratings and an individual commentary for 11,148 horses, including every one that ran on the Flat in Britain last season, costs £79 in the UK, from Timeform, Halifax, West Yorkshire and is also available online at timeform.com/shop.
Chepstow 1.20 Icebuster 1.50 Perfect Quest 2.20 Laraaib 2.50 Babyfact 3.20 War Chief 3.50 Charlie Victor 4.20 Master Dancer 4.50 Sigurd (nb) Musselburgh 2.00 Prazeres 2.30 Faithful Promise 3.00 Atteq 3.30 Go George Go 4.00 Election Day (nap) 4.30 Vallarta 5.00 Cosmic Ray Lingfield 2.10 Willwams 2.40 Time’s Arrow 3.10 Staffa 3.40 Highly Sprung 4.10 Bumptious 4.45 Pharoh Jake 5.20 Arab Moon Fontwell 4.55 Prince Mahler 5.25 Jaunty Inflight 5.55 Work In Progress 6.25 Dawnieriver 7.00 Talkischeap 7.35 Itoldyou 8.05 Canford Chimes Cheltenham 5.10 Are They Your Own 5.40 Pride Of Parish 6.10 Always Archie 6.45 Barrel Of Laughs 7.20 The Flying Doc 7.50 Jepeck 8.25 Full Trottle
David Moyes said he intends to stay on as Sunderland’s manager next season but hinted that this stance is dependent on Ellis Short, the club’s owner, offering him the funds to renew about half the squad.
A week ago Moyes indicated he was very close to resigning but he now seems minded to rebuild his career in the Championship. At a meeting with Short and Martin Bain, Sunderland’s chief executive, in the aftermath of last Saturday’s defeat against Bournemouth that confirmed the club’s relegation from the Premier League, both men were adamant they want him to remain in charge.
Such positive mood music saw the former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad manager say “yes” to a television interviewer in response to a question about whether he would still be on Wearside next season but there is much still to be finalised when Moyes meets Short again this month.
Perhaps tellingly, the Scot became a little more cryptic when subsequently quizzed about his future and apparent change of heart from seven days earlier. He merely reiterated – repeatedly – that he has a four-year contract.
“Ellis and the board want me to stay, the conversations with Ellis have been very good,” he said. “We’ll have another meeting at the end of the season. We’ve only put initial plans down. I know what needs to be done to get back in the Premier League, I know the requirements, but we’ve only had initial talks.
“I want to be able to have a team which would come straight back up. That’s my aim, to get us get back into the Premier League. And we have to look at how we do that. That will definitely be the key to the talks.
“I’ll know more come the end of the season, once we see exactly what we’re able to deal with, what we can work with, then we’ll know exactly what we can do. We’ll get together and see how we look.”
The 54-year-old said he was confident he had “the 100% backing” of Short and Bain. “The talks were very good,” he said. “But we haven’t nailed down everything because we have only had an initial conversation.”
Those comments have not been welcomed by the majority of Sunderland fans, some of whom demanded Moyes’s sacking during recent games but he remains defiant and privately insistent he will not be forced out by supporter dissent. “When I sat here right at the start of the season it felt like every Sunderland supporter wanted David Moyes as manager,” he said. “And I think every single Sunderland supporter knew a rebuild was needed.”
Those fans had hoped Moyes could accomplish it without suffering relegation but the club’s sixth manager in seven years believes he has been made the scapegoat for a series of bad decisions predating his appointment.
Matters are complicated by Short’s enthusiasm for selling Sunderland, something which Moyes suggested may be on the horizon. “There’s a bit of that in the background,” he said. “But I can’t give you any more at present.”
With three loanees returning to their parent clubs in the summer and 10 senior professionals out of contract, upheaval is imminent and Moyes, who spent £30m last summer, will next week begin telling players whether he will offer them new deals. John O’Shea is expected to stay but most will depart.
Whereas a bidding war for the much-coveted goalkeeper Jordan Pickford beckons, Jermain Defoe’s agreement contains a clause enabling the England striker to leave on a free transfer. “It’s within Jermain’s rights to execute the clause,” Moyes said. “It’s up to him.”
Sam Allardyce has confirmed his interest in bringing Defoe to Crystal Palace, who would be likely to face competition from Bournemouth, West Bromwich Albion and West Ham United for the 34-year-old.
“If we are safe and Jermain Defoe is available, and he wants to come to Crystal Palace, I would be interested,” Allardyce said. “Until that time, when we are safe, I can’t pursue that. When we are safe, someone else who is already safe may already have done it. Who knows?”
Sunderland’s latest accounts reveal that Margaret Byrne received an £850,000 payoff after resigning as chief executive in the wake of Adam Johnson’s conviction on child sex offences. They show that Byrne was paid £1,207,770 during the year to 31 July 2016, £850,000 of it in “compensation for loss of office”.
Byrne resigned on 8 March last year after admitting to “a serious error of judgment” in allowing Johnson, who had initially been suspended by the club after being arrested, to return and play a part in Sunderland’s successful fight against relegation. It has also emerged that the club’s £84m wage bill last season was bigger than that of the champions, Leicester City.
The Washington Capitals are one game away from elimination. One more loss and it’s all over. Their season, but almost definitely this era of Capitals hockey along with it.
It wasn’t supposed to end this way. This year was supposed to be different. The Capitals won the Presidents’ Trophy for the best regular season record in the NHL and were primed to put it all together this postseason, make it through the second round of the playoffs for the first time in Alexander Ovechkin’s 12-year career and finally win a Stanley Cup for an organization that has been waiting for one since entering the league in 1974. Instead, the Capitals are 60 minutes of hockey away from having Pittsburgh Penguins fans celebrate across the street from the Verizon Center on the steps of the National Portrait Gallery once again.
PARTY ON THE STEPS! 🙌 pic.twitter.com/NAKeaV7Tq4
Of course, a paragraph very similar to the one above was no doubt written for some publication in 2010 and 2016 when the Caps also won the Presidents’ Trophy. They were going to win the Cup then, too, and most every year in between. Washington has been a very good team for a very long time, making the playoffs nine out of the last 10 years, and winning their division in seven of those years. But then the postseason starts and it all quickly collapses in Washington below a ceiling full of regular season banners. The Capitals-in-the-playoffs is the running joke for a generation of hockey fans.
But the good news for Capitals fans is that that’s all about to end. Either Ovechkin and friends manage to win three games in a row from the Penguins – a team that is their supposed rival but has an 8-1 record in playoff series against them all-time – and move on in the playoffs or, the more likely scenario: the Capitals get eliminated in the coming days and management decides to finally, mercifully, blow the whole thing up and start over.
The hard part about committing to a rebuild is that the Capitals are, and have been, legitimately close. Even in the playoffs. A year ago in the 2nd Round they lost in a competitive six-game series to the Penguins, the eventual Cup champion. They also lost to the Penguins in an epic seven-game series on the way to Pittsburgh winning it all in 2009.
After last year’s defeat, Capitals general manager Brian MacLellan said of the Penguins: “No, I don’t think they were clearly better. I think if you looked at all the shot statistics they were pretty much equal. Maybe we had an advantage in scoring chances. I think the goaltending was pretty much equal. It was a close series. I think in hindsight, I think we missed opportunities.”
That’s a very positive spin to put on a series in which you lose to a lower-seeded team in six games, but it wasn’t entirely delusional. It was a competitive series. So MacLellan headed into this season with almost exactly the same roster intact, from Ovechkin and goaltender Braden Holtby down to more questionable pieces like Brooks Orpik and Daniel Winnik, confident that Washington’s size and physicality would finally win out.
Fast-forward to this year’s series against the Penguins and shot statistics are not equal at all. The Capitals have outshot the Penguins 142-93 through four games and puck possession is approximately all-of-the-minutes by Washington to none-of-the-minutes for Pittsburgh. The Penguins can’t break the puck out of the zone without injured defenseman Kris Letang and that problem has only gotten worse since Sidney Crosby was taken out early in Game 3. Shots, scoring chances, puck possession, however you want to measure it, the Capitals are outplaying the Penguins in every possible way except on the scoreboard and between the pipes. If not for the performance of Pittsburgh goalie Marc-Andre Fleury, Washington probably would have won the series in a sweep. Instead, they’re on the brink of having to blow themselves up.
Assuming this series ends like everyone, including Caps fans, think it now will, Washington can’t just throw the same group on the ice again next year and hope the outcome will change. That’s the definition of insanity, no? That’s banging your head against the wall and we’ve learned that Washington likes to reserve blows to head for Sidney Crosby alone.
MacLellan can cite shot statistics and talk about being “pretty equal” all he wants, the reality is that the team will have failed. Again. Again again again again again again again again, in fact, if we’re counting. And this time against the Penguins without Letang, Crosby and their supposed No1 goalie in Matt Murray. The only reason to keep trying is to see if this group of Capitals can solidify their place as the most consistently disappointing sports team of all-time, if they’re not there already. The Buffalo Bills at least made it to the Super Bowl four times before inevitably losing; the Capitals can’t even get to the conference finals once.
Kevin Shattenkirk, TJ Oshie and Justin Williams are all veteran Caps who are unrestricted free agents this offseason and jettisoning them would be a quick way to kick off a rebuild. Somehow ridding themselves of the plodding Orpik, who seems to be prominently featured in the background of most everyone Penguins goal, would help, too. Maybe the Capitals would even discuss dealing Holtby if they think they could get good return in a trade.
But Ovechkin will be the name featured in any legitimate and worthwhile rebuild. He has been a non-factor in this series, scoring only a single goal in Washington’s Game 1 loss, and spending most of the rest of the series on the fringes of the action like some random third or fourth-liner. But he’s still a big-name player who netted 33 goals this season. There would be trading partners if Washington wants them.
Dealing the face of the franchise is a big decision. But what does it say about the face of the franchise if that franchise has become synonymous with disappointment and failure? It’s time for something new in Washington. Even if new is not making the playoffs for a few years. Caps fans would probably agree it’s better than the same, old losing.
If I wasn’t in the rap game, I’d probably have a ki knee-deep in the crack game.Because the streets is a short stop.Either you slinging crack rock or you got a wicked jump shot
The Notorious BIG, probably the greatest rapper of all time, spat those lyrics nearly a quarter of a century ago on the second track, Things Done Changed, on his first album, Ready To Die. He was talking about how the quality of life in his neighbourhood in Brooklyn, New York, had deteriorated since his childhood, to the point where the only ways out were to become a successful music star, a big drug dealer or a professional sportsman.
Fast forward to 2017, in the UK: last week to be precise, and Anthony Joshua’s brilliant performance in winning the WBA heavyweight championship belt against Wladimir Klitschko to add to the IBF and IBO belts he already held.
In all the pre-fight hyperbole – online, on TV, the radio, and in the written press – we were retold one of the oldest cliches in sport: that of boxing being such a great way out for kids from disadvantaged backgrounds.
The picture most of them painted was of a young man who, having fallen in with the wrong crowd, was starting to get involved in petty crime. He joined a boxing gym, discovered a lethal right uppercut – his equivalent of the “wicked jump shot” – and now, thanks to the noble art, he is a multimillionaire and holds the most prestigious title in sport, the world heavyweight title.
The truth is there are more lottery winners than there are men who have made life-changing money from boxing
And it’s all true. Boxing has changed his life for the better. I’ve met Joshua a couple of times and he really is one of the nicest, most down-to-earth young men whose acquaintance you’ll ever make, so I’m not sure he was ever going to become the modern-day Scarface that some of his biographers would have us believe he would become, had he not decided to pursue a career in the squared circle. Nevertheless, boxing has been good for him. And this is only the beginning for a kid who is on his way to becoming one of the most wealthy and famous human beings on the planet.
But let’s not be suckered into believing that Joshua’s success in any way provides a road map for black kids from disadvantaged backgrounds in general. Joshua is an outlier who has been blessed with the perfect physique, an enormous amount of guts, tremendous talent and the capacity to work hard enough to be the best on the planet at what he does. If you were to design the perfect athlete from head to toe, he wouldn’t look too different to Anthony Joshua.
By definition though, that can only apply to a very few people. The truth is there are more lottery winners than there are men who have made life-changing money from boxing, which is probably the hardest, most physically demanding sport there is.
#BlackMenofCambridgeUniversity #BlackBoyJoy pic.twitter.com/Vgcr7Wzuos
The real way out for youngsters from a disadvantaged background (I’m not even positive that Joshua fits that stereotype in any case) is to ensure that a young person receives a good education. So it was heartening to see the pictures posted online of 14 young black students at Cambridge University this week. Like Joshua, they’ve worked hard to get where they are. And most of them probably come from a similar background to him, too. Sadly, I’m yet to see anyone describe applying to Cambridge and being accepted as a “way out”. There still might not be enough of them at the top universities, but I’d be willing to wager that there are far more black boys who have benefited from a good education than have been saved by a boxing gym.
For the past nine years my company, Powerful Media, has been showcasing in an annual publication, Future Leaders, 100 of Britain’s best students of African and African-Caribbean heritage. Many of them have been Oxbridge students, pretty much all of them are at a Russell Group university, and we send the publication to schools because we believe role models whom young people can relate to – like the lads in the Cambridge picture – have such an enormous influence.
It works, as the incredible number of testimonies from young people who read the publication when they were in school and who have since been profiled in it tell us. “Many of the young people we interview for the magazine say that it’s not that they are smarter than their friends, it’s just that they chose to work hard because something has triggered in them the belief that they can do well in life,” says its editor, Adenike Adenitire.
Because of the efforts of people like us, the Cambridge boys and many other organisations, such as the Amos Bursary and Elevation Networks, which are giving young black kids an opportunity to view success from a different perspective, the future is bright and we will see more young people from tough backgrounds succeed at the highest levels.
A quarter of a century ago, when the Notorious BIG was spitting those lyrics, many of us really did look at sport, entertainment or criminality as the only opportunities to be successful. Thankfully, since then, things done changed – for the better.
When New York City FC host Atlanta United on Sunday at Yankee Stadium, it will mark the first ever meeting between the clubs and an opportunity to show just how much MLS has developed. Two teams, filled with depth, diversity and ambition, are the perfect advertisement for Major League Soccer and if there was ever a fixture that can speak for the face of America, this is it.
Here’s why.
NYC FC have made significant strides since their beginnings in 2015, and in their third season they are a legitimate contender for MLS Cup. Meanwhile there has been strong home support for Atlanta United – last week’s home they broke the MLS attendance record for the first three matches of a season. A combined total of 147,230 fans have attended Bobby Dodd Stadium so far, showing soccer is alive and well in Georgia’s state capital.
On the field, the football from both teams hasn’t been too shabby either. On one side you have Tata Martino’s pressing game and a determined squad built to entertain: Atlanta have already scored 18 goals in eight matches, only Portland Timbers have a better offensive record (20). And then there’s the aesthetically pleasing NYC FC, where possession governs the land and Vieira’s triangular passing and play-from-the-back mentality are the rules to follow, for better or worse.
¡OLA KAMARA! #CLBvNYC 2-1 pic.twitter.com/0dRL1aFg1h
The real beauty of this fixture, however, and what it can do for the league – both domestically and internationally – is that this is more than just a clash of football philosophies. Essentially, this game also speaks to the American Latino fútbol fan and the manner in which these clubs represent their communities.
MLS is the most diverse sports league in North America, with players from more than 60 countries in the league. In addition, there are more than 110 Hispanic/Latino players who call MLS their home and for NYC FC and Atlanta United, the Latin influence is overwhelming, on and off the field.
In the front office, Claudio Reyna and Carlos Bocanegra (once USMNT team-mates) have been instrumental towards the identity of their clubs and how they speak for their cities. It was Bocanegra himself who made big strides in order to secure Martino’s appointment and the overall makeup of the team, while Reyna – who left his post as US Soccer’s youth technical director to join NYC FC – has been working hard with his youth coaches in order to strengthen the club’s academy program. So far, the work has been paying off – last month NYC FC U16’s won the Generation Adidas Cup in the Premier Division.
Both first-team squads also have a clear Latin American and Hispanic identity. NYC FC, with the 2017 additions of Alexander Callens, Rodney Wallace, Shannon Gómez, Miguel Camargo, Yangel Herrera and Maxi Moralez, have a host of players with a Latin/Hispanic background. Atlanta, meanwhile, have nine, including Greg Garza, Miguel Almirón and the wonderfully gifted Josef Martinez (who won’t play this weekend due to injury.) Not forgetting el jefe, Martino.
To the non-Latino fan, this may seem like a trivial statistic. But for Latinos who live in Atlanta and New York, there is pride that their club reflects their culture. On Sunday, for example, the stadium will hear me loud and clear when the Peruvian Callens’ name is called out.
US soccer is transitioning and as the country becomes more diverse, it’s imperative that the nation’s domestic league stands up for the different faces that inhabit it. This game is a perfect opportunity to cheerlead the beautiful game and how far we have come.
Greg Clarke admits the Football Association is considering ending its partnership with betting companies but stressed the decision is not linked to the recent Joey Barton case.
Barton was banned from football for 18 months in April for breaking betting rules but the Burnley midfielder fired a parting shot at the FA over its own links to gambling companies.
A statement published on Barton’s official website last month read: “I think if the FA is truly serious about tackling the culture of gambling in football, it needs to look at its own dependence on the gambling companies.”
The governing body signed a “long-term” deal with Ladbrokes in June 2016 to become its “official betting partner” following a similar agreement with William Hill.
The FA also has commercial deals with alcoholic drinks firms such as Budweiser and a report – ordered at the start of the season by Clarke – into whether such agreements are appropriate is due to be published in the summer.
Clarke, the FA chairman, told the Times: “We are actively considering what our position will be and should be.
“I have thought about the relationship between betting and football, and alcohol and football, and I raised this at the start of the season when I took over as chairman.
“I asked for the management team to produce a report on what our position should be on a number of things, and gambling and alcohol were among those things. At the end of the season, when that paper is produced, the FA board will take a measured decision on what our position should be.
“Until I see that paper, I don’t have a position but it is right we consider it and then make a positive decision on what we are going to do or not. This is not linked to the Joey Barton case at all, this goes back to the start of the season.”
Of the 20 Premier League sides, 11 have betting companies’ logos on their shirts while the three English Football League divisions are sponsored by Sky Bet.
Clarke added: “The FA will decide what is appropriate for a governing body, and there is a set of tests we would apply, and they will be different to what should apply to clubs, as for a governing body they should be higher.”
Slaven Bilic believes Tottenham Hotspur could struggle when they make their temporary switch to Wembley next season. Spurs will play their home games there while work continues on their new ground and Bilic, whose West Ham United side have won only six league games at the London Stadium after leaving Upton Park, warned of a tricky transition.
“I would not be surprised if they had problems,” said Bilic before West Ham’s game at home to Spurs on Friday night. “It is going to be very hard to replicate the atmosphere at White Hart Lane and the feeling that anywhere you turn you [feel] close to either goal.
“Tottenham felt [the difference] in the Champions League [games Spurs played at Wembley]. Although the pitches are the same it’s a totally different perception and the perception is the key. We needed a few games [to get used to the new ground].”
Mauricio Pochettino is anxious to learn from Bilic’s experience. “It’s a great opportunity to listen to him,” Tottenham’s manager said. “It’s always important to listen, to be open and learn. He can maybe advise us on different things. I have a very good relationship with him – he’s a great guy and manager. It’s always difficult when you move stadium. We have started to see this at Wembley, what happens when we played. We must make it our home and it’s so difficult.”
Bilic said he was calm and concentrating only on Friday’s game after it emerged his future depends on performances against Spurs and Liverpool in the final two home matches of the season.
“It is not the time to talk about that,” Bilic said. “It is not about individuals, it is about the club. I am calm and totally focused on the game. The only thing I am thinking about is the match against Spurs.”
West Ham’s woeful displays at home to the Premier League’s leading teams this season have particularly troubled the club’s hierarchy.
“This is a big match anyway,” Bilic said. “It is a derby, whether you need the points or not; it’s a derby game against Spurs at our stadium. They need points, we need points, so it is a massive game for us and a massive game for them. We will try to get the points that will mathematically secure our status.
“You don’t need extra motivation when you play against Tottenham. Last season’s game at Upton Park, when we beat them 1-0, was one of the most electric atmospheres. It is a big game for us, a big game for the supporters, it is under the lights which is always a special one, and we are ready for it.”
Andy Carroll, who has been absent for three games with a groin strain, will have a fitness test. “Andy has been training for a couple of days. I don’t know if he will be ready but we will see how he is in training,” said Bilic, who added that the left-back Arthur Masuaku was also a doubt after missing the second half of the goalless draw at Stoke last weekend. “Masuaku has a knock on his foot. There’s nothing broken but it’s sore. We will try him and see.”
One player definitely not available is the striker Diafra Sakho, whom Bilic confirmed would miss the rest of the season after suffering another back injury in training.
The likelihood is that Tottenham Hotspur’s chance to win the title vanished with Chelsea’s win at Goodison Park, making their deconstruction of Arsenal all the more impressive. And well though they played in that game, this was not even Spurs at their best, rather a simple assertion of immense, intense superiority: a team so grooved, with players so good, that they need only play fairly well to win, which they do more or less every week. Their win over Arsenal was also impressive because it showed their progression from last season. The collective misplacement of swede once the title seemed lost, though entertaining and sustaining, did not suggest a team poised to make the ultimate leap; on the other hand, their calm, ruthless degradation of their local rivals dripped with future menace.
Spurs did not fail to overtake Leicester because they combusted at the end, rather because they did not start properly – an error they subsequently repeated. And with a move to Wembley imminent, they will have an excuse for doing likewise yet again; the atmosphere, character and dimensions of White Hart Lane suit them, while away teams will fancy their chances at what will feel like a neutral ground. To ameliorate the problem, Tottenham must use the rest of this season to their advantage. If they can maintain their winning run and spirit, they can imbue the rest of the league with requisite fear for when they meet next. A London derby is the perfect place to start. DH
Arsenal entertaining Manchester United at the Emirates this late in the season is undeniably a Big Game with plenty riding on the outcome for both sides, but few could have predicted in August that this would be little more than a battle for both teams to keep alive their – extremely faint, in the case of Arsenal – hopes of qualifying for next season’s Champions League. The inconvenience of managing a football team that are forced to play football more often than he would like prompted José Mourinho to focus on the Europa League and threaten to field a second-string side at the Emirates, while little can reasonably be expected from an Arsenal team that couldn’t rouse themselves to contest a North London derby last weekend. They might try a bit harder this time, if only because they can scarcely make less of an effort than they did in defeat at the hands of Spurs. In his pre-match press conference, Arsène Wenger suggested he is prepared to forget about a decade’s worth of juvenile insults from Mourinho and make peace with his rival. Don’t do it, Arsène – technical area enmity might well be the highlight of a game where on-field entertainment could be in very short supply. BG
Like his pal across town, Pep Guardiola’s first league campaign in Manchester has been a disappointment. In patches, City have been very good, but that is only to be expected given players as good as David Silva, Kevin de Bruyne, Sergio Agüero and Leroy Sané. Management is about extracting more from individuals than anyone thought they had, and forging a collective to accentuate their strengths and hides their weaknesses. At this, Guardiola has palpably failed. In particular, he has found it impossible to find a first XI, and while it is true that his defensive issues cannot be secreted, it is also likely that there is a best way to protect his goal, or at least, that his goal is best protected by a settled defence. No doubt he will sign reinforcements in the summer, but he also has a decision to make up front. For a while, it looked as though Agüero might be forced out, unwilling to sit at the side while Gabriel Jesus ran around. But for 10 minutes in the Manchester derby and for 92 minutes at Middlesbrough, the two were used in tandem, and given a cohort of centre-backs unused to marking a striking pair, let alone a striking pair with such ability and versatility, Guardiola will surely persevere with the combination against a Crystal Palace side short on centre-backs. The question for next season is whether he can balance his side accordingly. DH
The Premier League does not have a Most Valuable Player award but if it did, Gylfi Sigurdsson would undeniably be a leading contender. Following his strike at Old Trafford last Sunday, the Iceland international has now been directly involved in 21 of Swansea City’s 40 Premier League goals this season (nine goals, 12 assists) and quite simply, without him, the club would be relegated by now. As it is they retain hope of staying in the division, but even if they achieve that the likelihood of Sigurdsson still plying his trade in south Wales next season is remote. One of the clubs consistently linked with the 27-year-old is Everton and, as such, Saturday’s encounter at the Liberty Stadium provides him with a chance to directly impress a potential employer. Looked at another way, the game provides Everton with a chance to show Sigurdsson that they are the type of dynamic, upwardly-mobile club that he should be interested in signing for. SN
Three games, no goals scored. That is Liverpool’s record against Southampton this season, a rather remarkable one given Jürgen Klopp’s side are one of the highest scorers in the country – and a painful one for them given two of those games were EFL Cup semi-final ties. On Sunday comes Liverpool’s chance for revenge and, looking at the wider picture, an opportunity to all but seal Champions League qualification – win and they would be seven points clear of fifth-placed Manchester United before José Mourinho’s side visit the Emirates Stadium later in the day. It is all set up for a barnstorming home performance at Anfield, especially given the visitors have little to play for, but as Crystal Palace most recently showed Liverpool can struggle against sides they are meant to swat away with ease on their own patch. Surely in their penultimate match at Anfield this campaign, with something at stake and confidence bolstered following Monday’s victory at Watford, they will get the job done. Surely? SN
Hull could scarcely have hand-picked more suitable opposition as they continue their fight to stay ahead of Swansea City in the battle against relegation. Freshly relegated Sunderland are the visitors to Fortress KCom, as Marco Silva attempts to continue an unbeaten home run that stretches back to March 2014, when he was still in charge of the Portuguese side Estoril. Hull should and almost certainly will avoid complacency, however. Sunderland won November’s corresponding fixture 3-0 and Hull are the only team in the league not to have scored against them so far this season. With relegation assured and the pressure off, and a game against Swansea to come next week, only time will tell if it’s completely ridiculous to suggest David Moyes’s men might stir themselves, put in a long overdue decent performance and have a major say in who goes down with them. BG
Without European football getting in the way, Antonio Conte has been able to pick more or less the same team for every game, the result an exceptionally cohesive and well-drilled outfit. Next season, that will not be so, and he will have to persuade fringe but important players such as Cesc Fàbregas and Willian to remain at the club – and perhaps some of his current first XI, given the likely influx of new players. Middlesbrough at home is precisely the kind of game in which it’s possible to give substitutes a start, especially those who, like the aforementioned, lost their spots to more defensively adaptable alternatives. Last week at Everton, Fàbregas and Willian played only seven minutes between them, combining for a beautiful goal in that time; should they return to the bench on Sunday, it might be hard for Conte to reassure them that they have his trust. DH
Having finished ninth in each of the past three seasons, the aim for Stoke City before this campaign was to go at least one better, but as things stands they are three places worse off and in danger of sliding further down the division. Indeed Mark Hughes’s team will start this match in 13th should West Ham beat Tottenham on Friday. Stoke’s form is terrible – five defeats in their past seven games and seven points down on the same stage in the 2015-16 season. The sense of a club gone stale is inescapable. Starting at the Vitality Stadium on Saturday, Stoke have the chance to finish the season strongly and it will be intriguing to see if the players rise to the challenge against Bournemouth. If not then what we may be witnessing is the last knockings of a side which at times over the past few years has fired the imagination. The likes of Marko Arnautovic and Xherdan Shaqiri may leave, as could Hughes after four seasons in charge and with a reputation for always having at least half an eye on the latest managerial vacancies. SN
By 2pm on Sunday, one of Nottingham Forest, Birmingham City or Blackburn Rovers will be relegated to League One and the woefully inept owners of the two clubs that stay up will be smugly patting themselves on the back for a job well done. Blackburn currently occupy the spot directly below the thick black line by dint of a solitary goal but could conceivably save themselves with a draw at Brentford. On the same number of points, Nottingham Forest entertain Ipswich Town, while Birmingham are two points clear but know a draw at Bristol City might not be enough to ensure their survival. That these three once-proud clubs find themselves in such a predicament on the final day of the season is a damning indictment on the way they’re run, but monitoring the progress of the three matches in which they are involved will make for absolutely gripping Sunday lunchtime entertainment for neutrals. BG
Huddersfield Town found themselves in hot water last weekend after their manager, David Wagner, made 10 changes in order to rest players for the play-offs, for which they have already guaranteed themselves a place. A second-string side – albeit one comprising players who have made an average of 23 appearances each in all competitions this season – lost to Birmingham, provoking no end of righteous indignation and fury from the camps of City’s fellow relegation strugglers, Nottingham Forest and Blackburn. Considering the riches on offer in the event of promotion to the Premier League, the threat of a fine is unlikely to affect Wagner’s selection policy for a meaningless match against Cardiff City, who have nothing to play for. Football League rules state that teams are required to play full-strength sides in all league matches, unless some satisfactory reason is given. If keeping your best players fit and fresh for play-offs worth around £200m to the winner doesn’t constitute a satisfactory reason, what exactly does? BG
Australian Olympic Committee presidential candidate Danni Roche says she remains confident that the momentum for change she needs to oust John Coates still exists.
Roche will soon find out if her bid to unseat Coates, the veteran Australian Olympic committee (AOC) president, has been successful.
The secret ballot, to be held on Saturday morning in Sydney, will bring to an end a bruising six-week campaign, which has tarnished the AOC with allegations of bullying and cultural dysfunction.
Roche, a former Hockeyroo and 1996 gold medallist, has campaigned on a platform of reform, vowing to take a vastly reduced salary, reinvest the AOC’s administrative costs into sport development, improve transparency and foster collaboration with the government’s sports funding arm, the Australian Sports Commission (ASC).
Coates, the committee’s president for the past 27 years, is relying on his ability to bring in sponsors, improve the AOC’s finances and advance Australia’s interests abroad through his role as vice-president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC).
Each of the summer and winter sporting federations will have equal votes, while voting will also come from the AOC’s executive committee and the athletes’ commission.
Coates has the support of the athletics body, rowing, volleyball, the athletes’ commission and the winter sports.
But, on the eve of the vote, Roche told Guardian Australia she remains confident the will for change still exists across Australia’s sporting bodies.
“There is certainly a momentum for change, typified by the record number and quality of nominations for the AOC executive,” Roche said. “I have outlined a comprehensive platform for change which puts past, present and future athletes back at the centre of the AOC.”
Coates has very publicly fallen out with the ASC chairman, John Wylie, and has described Roche, an ASC board member, as Wylie’s “puppet”. Coates is marketing himself as a leader who can give the AOC independence from government and the ASC.
But Coates has been the subject of damaging allegations throughout the campaign and was forced to apologise for using the term “sheltered workshop” when referring to the AOC.
Coates has also been accused of tolerating a culture of bullying and intimidation within the AOC. Its former chief executive Fiona de Jong alleged Coates had ignored a complaint of bullying she had made against one of his key backers.
Coates has repeatedly denied those allegations and told the ABC on Thursday that they were simply “not true”.
He said no one else was yet ready to lead the organisation.
He told the ABC’s 7.30 on Thursday that he would give the organisation “continuity” and indicated he had faith in the current chief executive, Matt Carroll, and would take more of a back seat if re-elected.
A key theme of the campaign has been the fractured relationship between the AOC and ASC. Roche told Guardian Australia she would immediately address the “dysfunctional relationship” that exists between the two organisations but would remain independent.
She has promised to reform the governance of the AOC and reduce the salary of the president from $700,000 to $100,000, which she would then forego.
“Good governance such as term limits would be introduced to bring the AOC up to the standards of corporate Australia and international sporting bodies like the IOC,” she said. “There has been a very enthusiastic response from sports to my platform.”
The ballot will take place at the museum of contemporary art on Saturday morning. Ninety-three votes will be cast in total, including 66 from the summer sporting bodies and 14 from the winter bodies. Another one vote each is given to the AOC’s executive members and another from the athletes’ commission.
With its sandy beaches, fresh air and Gala Bingo Halls, Bournemouth is renowned as a very pleasant place for the elderly to live out their dotage once they’ve withdrawn from the rat race. It’s no great surprise, then, that Jermain Defoe (34) and John Terry (36) are being touted as potential new recruits for the local football team next season, now that both players are looking for alternative employment. Terry announced that he’ll be parting company with Chelsea at the end of the season, while Defoe is expected to leave relegated Sunderland once they’ve completed their final four fixtures. The striker is already something of a hero at the south coast club, having fired in 18 goals in 29 appearances during a spell on loan from Tottenham many moons ago. Bournemouth manager Eddie Howe believes his side will benefit from the pair’s combined 40-odd years of professional experience.
Diego Costa has long been linked with a summer move to China and reports from Spain suggest he may already have inked a deal with Tianjin Quanjian that would earn him £650,000 per week after tax. The Chinese Super League club say no deal has been done yet, but owner Shu Yuhui says he has pre-contract agreements in place with three big names currently plying their trade in Europe. Shu has been working with agent Jorge Mendes, who looks after Costa, and was on the verge of signing Monaco striker Radamel Falcao earlier this year when Fabio Cannavaro, who manages Tianjin Quanjian, nixed the deal saying he didn’t want the Colombian.
In the wake of news that Manchester United had a £72m offer for his team-mate Kylian Mbappé rejected, Falcao has been telling anyone who’ll listen the teenage striking sensation could sign for Real Madrid at some point in the future, but should stay put in the cauldron of indifference that is Stade Louis II for the time being. “He is a very good player, very young and he is proving himself in every game,” said Falcao, as Manchester City are rumoured to be preparing a bid of almost £100m for the youngster.
It seems Demarai Gray is getting tired of life at Leicester City and is angling for a move to a club that will offer him more time on the field of play, while his team-mate and last season’s Player of the Year Riyad Mahrez is also expected to leave the club in search of Champions League football elsewhere. Of course the departure of the latter would almost certainly mean more game time for the former, so watch this space.
Having helped Brighton to promotion with performances that earned him a place between the sticks in the EFL Championship team of the season, David Stockdale is out of contract next month and is believed to be wanted at Stamford Bridge as back-up to Thibaut Courtois if, as expected, Asmir Begovic moves to Bournemouth in his quest for regular first team football. In other goalkeeping news, Joe Hart’s faint hopes of securing a move to Manchester United in the event of David De Gea leaving for Real Madrid are set to be dashed by the news that the club are more interested in bringing in Milan stopper Gianluigi Donnarumma or his Atlético Madrid counterpart Jan Oblak.
Manchester United may have to call time on their pursuit of Benfica’s Swedish centre-back Victor Lindelöf as Inter are understood to have offered the Portuguese club €60m for the 22-year-old, a whopping €15m more than the Premier League side are prepared to pay for him. Lindelöf was heavily linked with a move to United in January, but chose instead to remain remain where he was and sign a contract extension. “I have a long contract at Benfica and I’m thriving here,” he said at the time. “It’s a big club and I’m developing every day. I’m only 22 years old and there is no stress.”
Bayern Munich full-back Rafinha has told FourFourTwo that he “has a few offers” from various Premier League clubs, but would not reveal which clubs those might be. Liverpool and Arsenal are believed to be interested in getting the Brazilian on board. And finally, Ryan Giggs is being mentioned in conjunction with the vacant manager’s position at Middlesbrough, whose stay in the Premier League could come to a rather abrupt end this weekend.
Demarai Gray is set for a make-or-break summer at Leicester City as the winger considers his future after a season of limited opportunities, with the 20-year-old desperate to play more first-team football to further his career.
Gray, who signed from Birmingham City for £3.5m in January last year, has showed flashes of real promise and is expected to be part of the England Under-21 squad that competes at the European Championship finals in Poland next month. He scored superb individual goals this season against Manchester United and Derby County, and also attracted interest from some of the Premier League’s leading clubs, including Liverpool.
Yet Gray has become frustrated with the lack of time he has spent on the pitch at Leicester, where he has completed only two league matches this season and generally been used as an impact player – he has been a playing substitute 23 times in total. Gray has not appeared for 90 minutes in any competition since February and has been unused back-up in five of Leicester’s past 10 matches, including the 1-0 victory at West Bromwich Albion on Saturday.
Despite those figures, Gray is highly regarded at Leicester. He is viewed as one for the future, a talented player who needs to be patient and wait for his chance. With that in mind the club certainly have no desire to lose Gray, who has three years remaining on his contract.
It is also understood that the player has a £22m release clause in his deal. Leicester dispute that is the case and have denied that any “get-out” figure has been written into the contract, despite strong suggestions to the contrary.
Either way, his future is unlikely to become clearer until the end of the season, when Leicester will have to make a decision about whether Craig Shakespeare stays on as manager.
There are also huge questions hanging over the future of the 26-year-old Riyad Mahrez, who plays in the same position as Gray and seems likely to move on in pursuit of Champions League football elsewhere.
Ronald Koeman has said Everton will give Aaron Lennon all the time he needs to recover from a stress-related illness and insisted Premier League clubs do provide support for players with mental health problems.
The Everton winger is receiving treatment having been detained under the Mental Health Act on Sunday by police who were concerned for the 30‑year‑old’s welfare. Koeman admitted he has not encountered a situation like Lennon’s during his managerial career but believes the players of today are under greater pressure due to social media and the profile of the sport. The manager assured Lennon that Everton’s only concern is that he makes a full recovery, however long that takes.
“If it is a long-term problem he will have our long-term support,” said Koeman, who has not spoken to Lennon while he is receiving care. “Aaron still has one or two years more of contract [it is one year] and we will support him and help him to come back. If it takes time, it takes time, but we will do it. We won’t drop the support to him. Of course, we would like to see him back but what is important now is for him to be like he was. Life, health, is more important than football.”
Koeman refused to go into detail on Lennon’s condition or recovery, insisting: “It is a private matter and it is best we keep it inside between the club, the player and his family.”
But, despite claims by the Professional Football Association that more should be done to help players with mental health problems, the Everton manager believes assistance is available throughout the Premier League. “What I saw at Southampton and at Everton is every Premier League club has people to help. You need to have open communication with players so if there is something they will mention it, but I think we have the people to support the players if there is any mental problem.
“On one side there is more pressure now because social media is different than it was 20 years ago and, of course, that is more pressure. There is more football, more games, international football as well: that is really tough for players.”
This was a crucial win for Castleford, who extended their lead at the top of Super League and showed they have the squad depth to be genuine title contenders this season.
While their absentee list was not necessarily extensive here, Castleford were shorn of Luke Gale, Zak Hardaker and Mike McMeeken as the England trio prepare for the Test against Samoa in Sydney.
Gale’s regular half-back partner, Ben Roberts, was also missing from this match – and when the last remaining senior half, Rangi Chase, withdrew with an injury midway through the game here, Castleford’s hopes of success against Huddersfield looked remote.
However, endeavour, effort and a moment of madness from the Huddersfield half-back Danny Brough ultimately helped the Tigers to extend their lead at the top. “It’s right up there for me, this victory,” Daryl Powell, the Castleford coach, said.
Huddersfield had their own injury problems but they were ultimately left to rue a game-changing moment from Brough, who was sent to the sin-bin with seven minutes remaining for a dangerous tackle which handed the Tigers the initiative in a game which looked like it was slipping away from them.
“Generally in footy I think you get what you deserve, but we didn’t get what we deserved tonight,” the Huddersfield coach, Rick Stone, said afterwards.
Huddersfield led 18-12 at the break – and even with Chase withdrawing with a neck problem they levelled through a Greg Eden try before a final quarter laden with talking points. Brough’s drop goal made it 19-18, Paul McShane responded with a penalty to put Castleford ahead before Brough replied with two points of his own.
Jake Webster was then sent to the sin‑bin for a professional foul on Sebastine Ikahihifo, before Brough’s yellow card made it 12-a-side. Before his exit, his game-management had looked enough to steer Huddersfield to a priceless win; without him, Castleford made them pay via Jesse Sene-Lefao’s late try.
Huddersfield Mamo; Ormsby, Mellor, Murphy, Macintosh; Brough, Wood; Ikahihifo, Leeming, Wakeman, Roberts, Ferguson, Hinchcliffe. Interchange O’Brien, Rapira, Smith, Clough.
Tries Mamo 3. Goals Brough 4. Drop goal Brough.
Castleford Eden; Minikin, Webster, Shenton, Monaghan; Chase, McShane; Lynch, Milner, Millington, Sene-Lefao, Foster, Massey. Interchange Holmes, Moors, Cook, Springer.
Tries Monaghan, Minikin, Eden, Sene-Lefao. Goals McShane 5.
Referee B Thaler. Attendance 5,566.
League One play-offs
Rory McArdle’s second-half header gave Bradford City a slender advantage as they beat Fleetwood Town 1-0 in the first leg of their League One play-off semi-final.
McArdle, one of only three players in Bradford’s squad to have won promotion with the club in 2013, headed home a deserved winner in the 77th minute, but the home side may regret their failure to convert a string of chances.
Stuart McCall’s side, unbeaten on home soil this season, made all the running, but Uwe Rösler’s Cod Army turned in a wholly-committed defensive display and will head back to the Lancashire coast full of hope for the return leg at Highbury Stadium on Sunday.
Bradford threatened frequently before the break and went close in the 38th minute when Billy Clarke’s 20-yard shot hit the woodwork. The same player then curled Billy Meredith’s cross the wrong side of the same post.
They finally made the breakthrough when Tony McMahon delivered a perfect inswinging corner and McArdle rose highest to power home an unstoppable header.
Meredith spurned a golden chance when blazing over from another superb ball in by McMahon and Fleetwood will be delighted it will be just a 1-0 defeat to overturn at the weekend.
“We said before the game if we can go to Fleetwood on Sunday level, then so be it because there’s nothing between the two sides,” McCall said. “So to get the goal when we did, we were delighted, but it’s only half-time as they say.”
Scunthorpe United took a significant step towards reaching the final after resisting intense Millwall pressure to earn a 0-0 away draw in their semi-final first leg.
Graham Alexander’s team offered very little in attack but consistently absorbed the finest their hosts offered and, after five straight wins before their trip to The Den, they will expect to finish the job in the second leg on Sunday.
Should Millwall’s eventful season end in defeat this weekend, it may even be their striker Lee Gregory who takes much of the blame. An exceptional opportunity fell to him in the 26th minute, after a through-ball from Jed Wallace – who had replaced David Worrall in the only change to Neil Harris’ team – sent him one-on-one with Scunthorpe goalkeeper Joe Anyon.
Gregory had both time and space to choose his spot, and that perhaps proved his problem as he shot poorly at Anyon, who dived low to produce a routine save. The hosts continued to meet Scunthorpe’s organisation with impressive intensity, but with too few moments of quality to create similar opportunities.
“I’m pleased we were the better side, and pleased not to concede,” Harris said. “It will [feel like a missed opportunity] for Lee [Gregory], because he thrives on scoring goals. There’s four quarters of football in the two ties. We’ve not been beaten in the first two; that was important to not get beat.”
A number of home supporters invaded the pitch at the final whistle, some finding themselves restrained by security staff; t
Ugo Ehiogu was 44 years old. Of all of the shocking details about his death, it is the one that hits home with the force of a wrecking ball. Two weeks ago, the former England defender had walked out at the Tottenham Hotspur training complex to coach the club’s under-23 squad. His under-23 squad – the players who loved and respected him.
What happened next was the beginning of the nightmare for his wife, Gemma, his children, his wider family and all of the friends he had made during his life – many of them in football. The images of the panic etched across the faces of the Spurs staff when Ehiogu collapsed with the cardiac arrest which proved fatal have retained a haunting quality.
It was impossible to fathom, largely because Ehiogu had, ostensibly, been so fit and it remains impossible to fathom. Tottenham have been a club beset by grief and deep questions, particularly their under‑23 players, the ones who were there when Ehiogu lay stricken on the turf. At White Hart Lane on Thursday evening, for the Premier League 2 visit of Leicester City’s under-23s, they took a step forward in their rehabilitation.
It was the first time they had played since the tragedy, with the away game at Manchester United on the Monday before last having been postponed as one of the many marks of respect to Ehiogu. It might have felt cathartic for these young players to get back out there, doing what they do best, but the occasion was all about the man who was not here.
Spurs have done everything possible to honour Ehiogu’s memory. Last week the under-23 players and others from the club, together with members of the coaching staff, went out for a meal to celebrate his life. There were about 40 people in attendance. Mauricio Pochettino, the first-team manager, was there, along with his assistant, Jesús Pérez, and the club’s head of player development, John McDermott. There have been many examples of the family atmosphere that Pochettino has instilled during his three‑year tenure. This was one of them.
The club have also endeavoured to provide the appropriate psychological support, with counsellors having been contracted in to talk to the under-23s and anybody else who has felt they needed them. Pochettino has paid tribute to the work of the club’s medical staff.
Ehiogu’s image shone out from the cover of the matchday programme: eyes sparkling, with a warm and easy smile. McDermott, who took charge of the team, together with the assistant under-23 coach, Matt Wells, wrote with emotion on the first inside page.
“Ugo’s passing still leaves a numb feeling with us all, is inexplicable and, frankly, seems unfair,” McDermott said. “We cannot start to understand the pain and loss that Ugo’s wife, Gemma, their son, Obi, Ugo’s daughter, Jodie, and his immediate family are suffering and will continue to feel as the rest of us slowly move on in our own lives.
“While Ugo was officially in charge of the under-23s, he also worked across a number of age groups as all our full-time coaches do, and so his direct teaching and legacy to Spurs players extends far beyond the squad he was directly responsible for in the public domain.”
McDermott said Gareth Southgate, the England manager and a former team‑mate of Ehiogu’s, had been a “daily confidant for us, to help share the grief and simultaneously move forward with this tragic situation”, while he also commented on “the overwhelming and astonishing respect shown across the game”.
Ehiogu’s reach and influence was great. Steve Beaglehole, the Leicester under-23 coach, had worked with Ehiogu at this level while he had spent the past two pre-seasons with him at a football development centre in France. McDermott said: “Steve was inconsolable when he and I chatted on the phone last week. The off-field respect between him and Ugo was huge.”
The crowd of 2,226 were drawn to their feet before kick-off even before the announcer had asked them to be upstanding for a minute’s applause for Ehiogu. During it, Ehiogu’s picture was displayed on the giant screens above the goals.
The players wore black armbands and the evening was nicely choreographed, with the proceeds from the ticket and programme sales, together with the collection buckets, to be donated to the charity set up by Ehiogu’s wife which aims to give children equal opportunity to access and play football. It has already raised more than £17,000.
The game itself ended in a 4-1 win for Leicester, Harvey Barnes and Josh Gordon scoring two apiece and Marcus Edwards replying from the penalty spot for a Tottenham team who had the goalkeeper, Tom Glover, sent off on 78 minutes. It was no more than a footnote.
José Mourinho finally leapt from the bench after 67 minutes and headed towards the fans in the corner, clenching his fists. There had been opportunities at Balaídos, his frustration growing with every one that slipped through their fingers, but at last Manchester United had the goal that takes them a step closer to the Europa League final. Marcus Rashford scored it, bending a free-kick into the corner before turning and sprinting towards the touchline to celebrate the breakthrough.
They had been seeking it from the start, performing with an intensity, speed, power and a starting XI that underlined that this has indeed become a competition they wish to win, even if more as a route to the Champions League than a source of glory in itself.
There is still work to be done, a second leg to play, but United are on course. “We came here to win,” Mourinho said, and they did. The advantage is a narrow one, thanks largely to the Celta Vigo goalkeeper Sergio Álvarez, but an away goal will be treasured. United may rue a familiar failing – their wastefulness in front of goal – but once they did score, they seemed satisfied to stick.
That Celta considered this a damaging result was underlined by late changes, a final rebellion, the ball sent forward with urgency, but their dream has not yet died. In each of the last three rounds they had to go away in the second leg, still seeking a result. Winning at Old Trafford is the hardest task of all, but a comeback is not impossible.
It might have been. For much of the game, the home side had been overrun. Celta had not been themselves, or were not allowed to be. When Paul Pogba found Henrikh Mkhitaryan, just after the half-hour, it may not have been the best of the opportunities United had made but it was the best illustration of the way this match was shaping up, the difference between the two teams laid bare.
Pogba strode through the middle, bigger and more powerful than the men in blue shirts around him, and released a sharp pass into the space behind the right-back Hugo Mallo. Mkhitaryan was too quick for him, and headed into the area, only for Sergio to divert the shot wide with his foot.
Mallo, a former ballboy at Balaídos, had described this match as a “dream” but he was not enjoying Celta’s first European semi-final and he was not alone. United targeted the space behind him and, exposed, he could do little to stop them. Had Mkhitaryan been a little less honest, Mallo might have been punished as he swiped at the Armenian’s legs; had the finishing been better, Celta might have been punished for other runs too.
Toto Berizzo likes his team to go man-to-man all over the pitch; the problem here was that his players barely looked like men against United’s athletes. Stronger, faster, higher, they won every duel. Pogba, in particular, had opponents bouncing off him. He sped into space, the Celta defence backtracking. One run ended with him crashing into the back of Facundo Roncaglia.
On either side of him the game opened, particularly for Mkhitaryan, who bent one lovely ball across which only just evaded Jesse Lingard and had an opportunity of his own. In support, Rashford was dangerous. In the air, Marouane Fellaini was first to everything, including a yellow card.
By half-time, Sergio had made four saves. Rashford’s curling effort was pushed over, but the best was from Lingard. Again, the move was a portrait. Fellaini won it, Rashford nudged it into space and Lingard ran beyond the defence. One on one, he should have scored but hit the goalkeeper. Celta were overrun. When they got the ball, they were hurried, as if desperate to make it count. Although the first good chance came their way when John Guidetti curled to the far post for Daniel Wass to head wide and Pione Sisto missed the target, they were grateful to reach half-time level.
Iago Aspas flicked a header past the post from Wass’s cross five minutes after the restart and, a moment later, he was running at his opponents, having moved more centrally, the 4-3-3 shifting towards a 4-2-3-1.
There were signs of life at least: Celta had more presence in the middle where United had roamed free, Pablo Hernández bursting through to find Sisto, whose deflected shot forced Sergio Romero into a sharp save. But if the noise rose, it fell quickly. Rashford zoomed from the halfway line to the penalty area, only to scuff the shot. When he tried to race past them on the other side shortly after, he was brought down by Mallo, closing the door rather than losing another race. The danger, though, had not gone. Rashford bent a free-kick into the net by Sergio’s post. His step the wrong way had been fatal; the shot had been fantastic.
It was also set to be final. Aspas’s shot went wide and Guidetti bundled wide after Sisto turned Valencia to cross. At the other end, Lingard had swiped wildly at his best opportunity, but there would be no more goals.
United suffocated this, stopping and slowing the game, preserving that lead. In the end, there was just one at Balaídos. Old Trafford will reveal if one is enough.
Connections are hoping for a more prominent showing from the French raider Al Wukair when he lines up in the 2,000 Guineas on Saturday as the likely third-favourite. The unbeaten colt gave his rivals plenty of rope before finishing strongly to win the Prix Djebel at Maisons-Laffitte last month, a feat that would be much harder to pull off in a high-quality Guineas, as this one is expected to be.
“When you have André Fabre as your trainer and he’s being as bullish and as positive as he is, it’s very exciting,” said Harry Herbert, racing adviser to the owner, Al Shaqab. But Herbert accepts that Al Wukair’s unbeaten record will be in some peril if he trails Churchill by 10 lengths at halfway, which is how much ground he had to make up on the Djebel leaders in the final half-mile.
“I thought, in the Djebel, it looked as if he was slightly dossing,” said Herbert, who believes the likely stronger pace on Saturday will help Al Wukair. “Gregory [Benoist] looked very relaxed on him. I thought: ‘This is very odd. We’re not going to be able to give Churchill all that distance and beat him.’ But then he finished so strongly.
“I mentioned it to André and he dismissed the whole thing. I was almost reprimanded for asking. Anyway, I hope he would be tight there [behind the Guineas pace] and then use his turn of foot to best effect. If he hangs out the back as he did in France, that’s unlikely to work.”
The mere fact that Fabre wants to run Al Wukair in the Newmarket Classic seems a positive sign. The Frenchman has been represented in the race on only nine occasions, winning twice and saddling the second on two others. This colt will be his third runner since Xaar was a disappointing favourite 19 years ago.
Herbert reports that no effort was made to steer Fabre towards running the colt in England this year. “Early in the spring, he told me: ‘I’m going to run him in the Djebel to get some experience and then we can think about the English Guineas.’ According to André, his work-rider says he’s the best he’s ever sat on.
“He’s very well balanced, he’s got a very good cruising speed and he’s got a fantastic turn of foot. That’s what we hope will stand him in good stead. I think he’s straightforward and uncomplicated.
“There’s a bit of inexperience about him. He won so easily as a two-year-old and again this year, you could argue he’s never had to battle and so what will happen when he does? We don’t know.”
Fortunately, there is no sign of any lingering effects from the virus that got in the way of Fabre and so many other Chantilly trainers last year. “I think it probably affected all the horses to a degree,” Herbert says. “It really ripped through the yard and some horses were laid very low. It completely buggered up the year for André.
“When I saw the horses this spring, you could immediately see the difference in them. And the results are showing that he’s on fire.” Fabre has already had nine Group-race wins in France this year, which took him until October last season.
While there has been so much talk about the exploits of Frankel as a stallion in the past year, Al Wukair is a son of Dream Ahead, famously beaten by Frankel in the 2010 Dewhurst. The Guineas on Saturday will be the first English Classic in which Frankel has had runners, so victory for Dream Ahead would represent a kind of belated revenge.
Meanwhile, 26 of the 40 jockeys who took part in the Grand National last month have been charged with a breach of the rules concerning the start to the race, the sport’s ruling body believing they approached the tape too early and before being asked to do so. None of the 26 is expected to attend when the matter is heard on Friday.
Chepstow
1.20 Icebuster 1.50 Perfect Quest 2.20 Laraaib 2.50 Babyfact 3.20 War Chief 3.50 Charlie Victor 4.20 Master Dancer 4.50 Sigurd (nb)
Musselburgh
2.00 Prazeres 2.30 Faithful Promise 3.00 Atteq 3.30 Go George Go 4.00 Election Day (nap) 4.30 Vallarta 5.00 Cosmic Ray
Lingfield
2.10 Willwams 2.40 Time’s Arrow 3.10 Staffa 3.40 Highly Sprung 4.10 Bumptious 4.45 Pharoh Jake 5.20 Arab Moon
Fontwell
4.55 Prince Mahler 5.25 Jaunty Inflight 5.55 Work In Progress 6.25 Dawnieriver 7.00 Talkischeap 7.35 Itoldyou 8.05 Canford Chimes
Cheltenham
5.10 Are They Your Own 5.40 Pride Of Parish 6.10 Always Archie 6.45 Barrel Of Laughs 7.20 The Flying Doc 7.50 Jepeck 8.25 Full Trottle
Coach: Graham Arnold
Captain: Alex Brosque
Championships: 2 (2005-06, 2009-10)
Premierships: 2 (2009-10, 2016-17)
Finals campaigns: 8
Why they’ll win: Sydney FC have re-written A-League record books this season with an historic points haul, great defence and a multi-faceted attack. They have plenty of match-winners and have come up trumps against Victory in each of their three meetings this season. Anything short of success would be unjust given their incredible campaign.
X-factor: Miloš Ninković. The Johnny Warren medal winner is the oil that makes the Sydney FC machine run smoothly. He simply doesn’t have a bad game and opposing midfielders Carl Valeri and Leigh Broxham must have a plan to subdue him.
Coach: Kevin Muscat
Captain: Carl Valeri
Championships: 3 (2006-07, 2008-09, 2014-15)
Premierships: 3 (2006-17, 2008-09, 2014-15)
Finals campaigns: 9
Why they’ll win: Finals specialist and record goalscorer Besart Berisha. The Kosovo international lives for the big occasions and proved as much again on Sunday night against Brisbane. Kevin Muscat’s side can also draw upon their 2015 success in the build-up to Sunday, with six starters from their grand final win playing against the Roar.
X-factor: Lawrence Thomas. Opposing keeper Danny Vukovic has deservedly won plaudits for his outstanding season but in Thomas, Victory also have a goalkeeper of much quality. The 24-year-old is a steady presence and will be ready for the grand final.
No team has held a candle to Sydney FC this season. Indeed, few in the 12-year history of the competition merit comparison to Arnold’s Sky Blues, who have set new records for:
Sydney FC scored more goals (55), had more shots (334), created more ‘big’ chances (86) and had fewer dismissals (0) than any other side this season.
Very good but not good enough to be premiers; that’s Melbourne Victory’s season in a nutshell. The 49 points gathered by Muscat’s side is the second-best in the club’s history. It would have won the premiership last season on goal difference.
Sydney have beaten Victory three times this season. Twice they came from behind to record 2-1 wins, and in March the Sky Blues won 1-0. At no point in the 41-game rivalry has either side won four in a row.
Round 5: Sydney FC 2 Melbourne Victory 1 (Allianz Stadium) – David Carney’s late brace overcame Mitch Austin’s opener for Victory, who started the better side and regretted not cashing in on their first-half performance.
Round 17: Melbourne Victory 1 Sydney FC 2 (Etihad Stadium) – Bernie Ibini bagged the winner with a dazzling run after James Troisi opened the scoring. In between, Ninković showed his class to set up Filip Hološko’s equaliser.
Round 22: Sydney FC 1 Melbourne Victory 0 (Allianz Stadium) – Victory blew a chance to cut Sydney’s lead to five points when Bobô’s goal decided a contest played on a swamp-like pitch. The shot count of 18-6 didn’t tell the whole story, with both sides missing glaring chances.
A Victory strong suit. No team has more championships than Muscat’s men, though Sydney will draw level with Victory and Brisbane with three titles should they win on Sunday.
In five finals meetings, Victory have won three – including the 2015 grand final – drawn one and lost one – the 2010 grand final on penalties.
Of special note is Berisha’s finals scoring spree. He extended his record by scoring in a sixth consecutive final last Sunday against Brisbane Roar and has scored in all four finals appearances for the Victory.
Sydney haven’t lost at home all season. Victory have lost their last four away finals.
Ground staff will work round the clock to get the Allianz pitch up to standard in time for kick-off. With the Waratahs hosting the Blues at Allianz on Saturday night – less than a day before the soccer showpiece – there are concerns the playing surface won’t be up to scratch.
Ninković and Marco Rojas have assisted for 11 goals each this campaign, three more than any other player in the league.
Sydney FC boast an all-round spread with nine multiple goalscorers this season. Victory have five. Golden boot winner Berisha (20 goals) leads all-comers, with wingers Rojas (12) and James Troisi (6) next best at Victory. For the Sky Blues, Bobô (15), captain Brosque (11), Ninković (9) and Hološko (8) are the leading scorers.
Both clubs have named full-strength squads. Sky Blues coach Graham Arnold will almost certainly field the starting XI he has favoured throughout the team’s stunning premiership season, unchanged from last weekend’s semi-final win over Perth.
The only alteration on the bench looks to be winger Ibini, who has been named in the extended squad but is a highly unlikely prospect after injuring his hamstring against the Glory.
Young striker George Blackwood and defender Seb Ryall have been promoted and both shape as potential replacements should Ibini be ruled unfit.
Muscat has included all his starters from Sunday’s semi-final triumph over Brisbane, with young forward George Howard and midfielder Stefan Nigro earning promotions.
In the last three seasons, the premiers have doubled up to win the championship. Since February, Sydney FC have scored 14 goals and conceded just once. Victory have scored and conceded six. No Victory player – apart from Berisha – has scored in almost eight hours of football.
Jarred Gillett has been given the whistle for the season finale. Gillett, one of the FFA’s three full-time officials, will referee his fourth A-League grand final after he was named referee of the year at the Dolan-Warren Awards night in Sydney on Monday.
Played 42 – Sydney 11 wins, Victory 13 wins, drawn 18
The next time you are on a treadmill, try this simple experiment. First, hold down the speed button until it reaches 13.1mph – assuming it even goes that high. Congratulations, you are running at 4.34-minute mile pace. Then, providing you haven’t already torpedoed off the back and shredded your dignity and ligaments, try sustaining it. Unless you are a seriously good runner you will not last two minutes. Now imagine maintaining that speed for 26.2 miles.
That, in essence, is what three athletes – the Olympic marathon champion Eliud Kipchoge, Zersenay Tadese, the half-marathon world-record holder, and Lelisa Desisa, a two-times Boston Marathon winner – will be trying to do shortly before dawn on Saturday.
When they step on the Monza formula one track at 5.45am they will be aiming to shatter athletics’ last great barrier: the sub-two-hour marathon. That is some ask given the current world record, set by the Kenyan Dennis Kimetto in 2014, is nearly three minutes slower at 2:02:57.
Yet this is no ordinary attempt. It is one-third science experiment, two‑thirds PR masterstroke and shoe advert for Nike, which has ploughed millions into the exercise. The attempt is being conducted outside the rules of the International Association of Athletics Federations, yet if the barrier comes crashing down for many casual onlookers that will be a mere asterisk. Not that Nike sees it that way. As Matt Nurse, vice‑president of the Nike Sport Research Lab who is behind the project, tells the Guardian: “This is about pushing the limits of human performance. It is a moonshot. You can do all the work in the world and when you set the spaceship into orbit you don’t know whether it will land on the moon. But one of Nike’s goals is to take on missions with a risk of failure.”
Perhaps incredibly, there is a sliver of a chance of success. It helps that Kipchoge, the reigning Olympic marathon champion, is on board. But he is only one part of the complex equation. Monza was chosen because it is flat and has few bends – runners expend energy when they go around curves. The 2.4km course, which the athletes will go around 17.5 times, also makes it easy for pacemakers to slip in and out of race. This will allow those going for the record to draft off them like cyclists in the peloton, saving crucial energy, as well as acting as a windbreak. The early morning time, meanwhile, has been chosen because the temperature will be around 9C, just about perfect for marathon running.
But the biggest advantage, according to Nike, will come from its controversial new Zoom Vaporfly Elite shoes, which use a special carbon-fibre plate in the soles to make runners 4% more efficient than Nike’s previous fastest marathon shoe, boosting their running economy. This is potentially significant. As Dr Mark Burnley, a sports scientist at the University of Kent explains: “Economy is a measure much like miles per gallon in a car. The more economical the engine, the further a given fuel load [muscle glycogen] can take you.”
There is, however, a fierce debate over whether the Vaporfly Elites should be legal. According to the IAAF, shoes must not offer “any unfair additional assistance, including by the incorporation of any technology which will give the wearer any unfair advantage”.
But how do you define unfair?
The odds are still hugely against it. As Burnley explains: “Theoretically, the maximum speed a runner can sustain is given by a thing called the ‘critical speed’. Above this your physiology goes haywire. We know from elite 10,000m runners that critical speeds of just over 21km per hour are possible [sub-two-hour pace], but running this fast places a severe strain on your carbohydrate reserves. The probability of hitting the wall within the 26.2 miles is very high.” It is not just about technology and physiology but mentality, too. Mike Gratton, the 1983 London marathon winner, says: “When you run a marathon at some point you are hurting so much but you have to trick your mind to believing you can still achieve your goal. Often when people drop off the pace they just fall apart. That might be what happens in the sub‑two – if after 30km they start to struggle a bit they might pack up.”
What of the multimillion‑dollar question? Nike insists it can happen. Nurse, who has a PhD in biomechanics and medical science, is a believer. “I have always thought we had a 30% chance because there are so many factors beyond our control. But as we have got closer, I have started to think the odds are much higher. The confidence is contagious. None of our three athletes think it is impossible. We are shooting for history.”
Professor John Brewer, of St Mary’s University, is a little more sceptical, however. “I’d say there’s about a 20% chance,” he says. “I’d say that a time of around 2:01.30 is more realistic shot for now. But one day I believe that two hours will be broken. It is just a case of when, rather than if. It will require the ideal athlete under the ideal conditions with the right mental approach. But it may be that the chunk of time that they are looking to take off on Saturday is too big for one jump.”
Whatever happens, Nike will emerge victorious. Two versions of its Zoom Vaporfly Elite shoes will go on sale next month, and no doubt will fly off the shelves.
We’re in the middle of the interview when a stranger approaches Johnny Harris. Sorry to interrupt, he says, it’s just that he has got a script he wants Harris to read. It’s mad seeing him here, he says, because he wrote it with him in mind. Harris nods, says: “Oh, lovely, nice one.” He promises he will talk to him about it later. He’s just doing this at the moment.
We’re in the bar of a Soho theatre, the kind of place a working actor will get recognised. Elsewhere, it depends what Harris has been in lately. When he was on TV playing the monstrous and abusive father Mick in Shane Meadows’ This Is England, it happened a lot. Still, the nature of the role gave people pause. “There’s something to be said for playing a madman, because when people come up, they want to talk about the work.” He gently rolls his eyes. “I don’t get banter.”
Interviews with Harris tend to discuss just how different he seems from the brooding tinderboxes of films such as action thriller Welcome to the Punch or TV sci-fi The Fades. It’s true – the gulf can feel ridiculous. With a dense beard and open bearing, he is endlessly warm and talkative, a man who will sometimes express surprise by saying “flipping hell”. But on screen, his signature as one of Britain’s best character actors is menace, a violent simmer. You see a trace of it in his new film, the stripped-down boxing movie Jawbone. Aside from starring in it, Harris wrote the script, the story of an alcoholic ex-contender staging a comeback.
The project began in 2012. He had just appeared in lavish fantasy Snow White and the Huntsman, part of a crew of British actors including Ray Winstone, Ian McShane and the late Bob Hoskins, all cast as dwarves. “I came out with a couple of grand in the bank. First time I’d ever been in the black.” He bought a laptop, sketched out an opening scene of a ruined fighter breaking into his old gym, based on the fabled Fitzroy Lodge in Lambeth.
Harris used to box himself, a teenage champion at the place he calls the Lodge. Later, he too succumbed to alcohol. But the film, he says, is personal more than autobiographical. “It was always going to be about boxing and addiction, but it wasn’t about me. It sounds big-headed” – Harris often worries about this – “ but I just wanted to make a really good British boxing movie. And a working-class film with poetry to it.”
He grew up in Kean House, a Kennington council block, the flat filled with an extended family of grandparents and uncles. “For so long, black actors in Britain haven’t had the chances they should. But also if you’re a working-class white actor, a lot of people only want you for ‘racist, misogynist meathead’. So I wanted to write something about the working-class men I knew from Fitzroy Lodge, who were the most inclusive, benevolent people I ever met.”
The real Lodge sits under the railway between Vauxhall and Waterloo. The trains make the place rumble. Instead, though, Jawbone’s boxing scenes were shot in Stoke, in the abandoned Spode ceramics factory. During filming last year, I visited the set. In a corner of the vast empty space, a likeness of the gym had been recreated. The roof leaked into unattended cups of tea, the mood can-do on a low budget. In aged training gear, Harris did knee-lifts in the ring between takes, the scene a long session of sparring. Ray Winstone looked on from the corner as the gym’s taciturn elder statesman, his assistant played by Michael Smiley. Cast as an all-powerful promoter, Ian McShane had already filmed his scenes and returned to LA (one fan who saw him in town was so awed she just wordlessly patted his hair). Now, Paul Weller also stood out of shot in an expensive-looking overcoat. Introduced to Harris by a mutual friend, he had embraced the script and was writing the score. Another collaborator was Northern Ireland’s former world champion Barry McGuigan, who helped train Harris physically. For all his ring experience, the actor is now 43. In their first session, he cheerfully admits he threw up. In Stoke, he moved flat-footed around the ring, at this point in the story needing to seem more out of shape than he actually was.
Harris left school at 13, alienated and refusing to go to lessons. He had been boxing since nine. He felt safe at the Lodge with legendary trainer Mick Carney. “Mick was a quiet man, but he wouldn’t tolerate bullying, racism, any threat to us kids.” Realising he couldn’t be persuaded back into education, Carney found him an apprenticeship as a locksmith. Harris was a good enough fighter to become a national junior champion. There was talk of turning pro. “But I was getting political by then.” Changing locks, he saw wealth in London he had never known existed. It made him queasy. “And more importantly, I fell in love.” He was 17, he met a French girl and they left for Paris. It didn’t last, but he was done with boxing anyway. Returning to Britain, he worked on building sites then found acting, inspired by Nil by Mouth, the brutal modern classic in which Winstone was directed by Gary Oldman.
He did Pinter and Terence Rattigan in the wilds of fringe theatre, took TV jobs, a small role in the well-received Gangster Number One. But disquiet nagged at him. It always had. Boxing helped. “There’s a serenity in the ring. You’re not in the before or after, you’re truly present.” He got the same feeling, he says, later in life. “as soon as I picked up a drink”.
Harris is teetotal now. “There’s a saying about drinking, that it gives you wings and takes away the sky. That was how it was for me.” He had his first pint at 16. By the time he started acting, it was a problem. Alcohol is where Jawbone and real life overlap, the turmoil on screen a trace of the man he was then, raw and raging. “I remember walking past happy families in restaurants, thinking why can’t I find what they’ve got? Until you say: ‘Well, I don’t fucking want it anyway. Fuck ‘em.’” For a dark second, his eyes turn over like one of his characters. “And in no time you’re cut off from the world.” Sometimes he slept rough with a bottle near Lambeth Bridge, across the Thames from Parliament.
What was it that tormented him? “I just never felt at ease in my skin.” He shakes his head and grins a sheepish grin. “My sister, she’s always been contented, hardworking, loving. I felt like I wasn’t born on this planet.”Sobriety was painful to achieve, but he made it. Professionally, a breakthrough came with a horribly real performance in the 2006 thriller London to Brighton. Since then, his reputation as an actor has only grown. (This is England also brought him a death threat: “Shane called me and said ‘You made it baby!’”) He would have made more money had he appeared in some of the conveyor-belt British gangster movies he always gets offered. But those films are not his thing.
Before he started training for Jawbone, Harris spoke with Daniel Day-Lewis, who worked with McGuigan at Fitzroy Lodge, preparing for the 1997 Irish drama The Boxer. Day-Lewis gave him notes on his script, “the best I’ve ever had”. Then he told him he envied him. “He said: ‘Knowing Barry is like finding a tenner in the gutter when you’re skint.’”
In Stoke, multiple takes got the sparring scene finished. Afterwards, Weller quietly sipped tea. Winstone worked the pads with a group of young boxers acting as extras. Smiley joined another circle of visitors, mimicking their London accents. As he walked away, an older woman peered after him. “Cheeky sod,” she said. Harris played host, beaming and gabbing. But when the next scene was ready, his face fell into concentration.
Jawbone’s exteriors were shot in the same stretch of London Harris still lives in. His family remain nearby, his mother 10 minutes from his flat. “There were times I wanted to put a bomb under where I lived. Other times I could cry with love for it. But I want the film to celebrate people I’ve known there. Humble people whose actions mean something. People who stick the kettle on. People who turn up.”
I glance back after we say goodbye. Harris is talking to the stranger with the script.
Jawbone is released on 12 May. A live satellite Q&A takes place in cinemas 8 May
Neymar and his parents are to stand trial over alleged fraud and corruption. In addition the Barcelona president, Josep Maria Bartomeu, and his predecessor Sandro Rosell will go on trial for alleged fraud and corruption over Neymar’s transfer from Santos in 2013. The two clubs were also ordered to stand trial. All have denied wrongdoing.
Spanish prosecutors have recommended Neymar be handed a two-year jail sentence and fined €10m. Sentences of two years or less are usually suspended for first-time offenders in Spain. However, Neymar could be banned from playing during a judicial sentence.
His arrival from Santos has been a huge success for the Spanish champions on the pitch but a judicial nightmare off it. The 25-year-old striker is being investigated in Brazil and Spain over his move to La Liga.
The case began with a complaint from the Brazilian investment company DIS, which owned 40% of Neymar’s sporting rights at the time of his transfer. DIS received €6.8m – 40% of the €17m fee paid to Santos – with the company claiming it was denied its real share because part of the transfer fee was concealed by Barcelona, Santos and the Neymar family.
Spain’s national court suspects Santos were paid €25m, which would mean DIS was cheated out of €3.5m. Barcelona originally published the transfer figure as €57.1m, with €40m of that given to the player’s family and the rest to Santos.
DIS has called for five-year sentences for Neymar and his parents, who acted as the player’s representatives, eight years for Rosell and Bartomeu plus a €195m fine for Barça.
In July 2016 a judge ruled that irregularities in the transfer were detected but said it was an issue for a civil court, not a criminal court, to settle. However, prosecutors successfully argued the player and his father were aware of potentially fraudulent dealings between Barcelona and Santos to the detriment of DIS to fully overturn that decision.
The decision to order Neymar to stand trial is another blow to the image of the Spanish giants and the player himself.
Barcelona hoped to bring an end to the murky affair when the club agreed to pay a €5.5m fine in a deal with prosecutors in June to settle a separate case and ensure the club avoided trial on tax-evasion charges over the transfer.
Neymar is far from the only Barça star to find himself embroiled in problems with the Spanish authorities. Lionel Messi and his father were given 21-month suspended jail sentences in July 2016 for tax fraud relating to the player’s image rights. The defender Javier Mascherano agreed a one-year suspended sentence with authorities for tax fraud this year.
Today the Special One embarks on an attempt to become something that he never imagined he would become. Even in his saddest dreams – the ones that don’t feature Marouane Fellaini – the Special One did not envisage himself having to compete for the right to be called a notable knick-knack amid the bric-à-brac of managers to have led an English club to the Big Vase final. Mr Roy has done it. Schteve McClaren has done it. Even Arsène Wenger has done it. So just imagine how mortified José Mourinho will be if he fails to do it? Why, he’d be so ashamed he’d have to discover new planets just to find enough people to blame.
He won’t be able to blame the unavailability of Eric Bailly, Chris Smalling, Phil Jones or Paul Pogba, however, because they have all been declared fit enough to start. Not just by the Special One, but by an actual doctor, reportedly.
The team hoping to prevent Manchester United from becoming Big Vase finalists in the grand lineage of Casino Salzburg, Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk and the Pope’s O’Rangers are none other than Celta Vigo, the pride of Vigo. Their main threat is the ex-Liverpool striker Iago Aspas, who has reportedly come good since escaping the Anfield toilet in which he was stuck for two years. There are nine worse teams than Celta in La Liga so they are not to be taken lightly. “How do you beat Manchester United?” implored their manager, Eduardo Berizzo. Then he had a squint at the hacks in front of him and decided he’d best try to answer the question himself. “By being faithful to who we are. I think this team has an identity and they believe in this identity. A lot of pressing, a lot of possession. Believing in a sustained attack. The only way is to be faithful to our identity.”
Sustained attack? A manager who believes in the club’s identity? This tie seems set to be a meeting of contrasts.
Follow Paul Doyle’s red-hot minute-by-minute report of Celta Vigo 0-0 Manchester United at 8.05pm BST.
“Some people look at my body language and think I don’t care. But that’s me” – Mesut Özil responds to criticism of his perceived lack of effort the only way he knows how, with a nonchalant shrug.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“I quite like Ed Taylor’s suggestion of ‘I’m with 1,056 others’ T-shirt. It does have that illusion of exclusivity. But is it the kind of exclusivity and coolness that Guardian Soulmates readers would be turned on by? Will the Fiver share in that illusion of being part of said group? Or will the exclusivity part be what will come across, as most pedants really are excluded from most polite company?” – Nigel Assam.
“Can I be one of 1,057 (or is it 1,317 now?) ethically dubious Indian pedants to point out that Aizawl FC’s I-League winning heroics are a truly inspirational story of dedication, grit and defiance against the established order of dominance of clubs from the heartland of India (context – Aizawl are from the North-East of India which is very much separated from the Indian mainstream on racial, social, cultural and economic undertones and they have become the first ever North-Eastern club to win the league). It really is an achievement to rival even that of Leicester’s Premier League triumph last year given their humble beginnings and so their being left out from the upcoming Super League’s instalment is a mammoth travesty of justice! I’m only joking, of course. We only ever watch the bigger Premier League clubs, Real-Barça, Big Cup and lately the Big Vase due to the quite not-so-heroic efforts of Liverpool and Manchester United in recent times” – Yash Anand.
“Mike Wrall’s missive (Wednesday’s letters) reminded me of a failed attempt by Ada Colau, the Mayor of Barcelona, to name a road after Barca’s Brazilian superstar. Alas, the Catalan capital remains a place where The Streets Have No Neymar” – Dave Docherty (with head hung appropriately in shame).
“With Uefa toying with the idea of switching the penalty shootout system from ABAB to ABBA, I can’t help but think that the governing body have forgotten the name of the game. When all is said and done, the winner takes it all, regardless of the order of the kicks having been taken. Time will tell if Uefa chief suit Aleksander Ceferin has money, money, money on his mind, and if he can persuade the fans to ‘take a chance on me’. Knowing Me Johnny Connelly; Knowing You, the Fiver – Aha” – Johnny Connelly.
“I enjoyed Jason Tew’s letter in Wednesday’s Fiver immensely. He’s absolutely right – in the 70s and 80s a team could wiggle its way to the semi-finals of Big Cup with a bit of luck in the draw. Liverpool memorably thumped OPS Oulu 11-2 on aggregate in Big Cup 80-81, and the Finnish champions probably couldn’t believe their good luck when they drew Liverpool again the following year and lost only 0-8 on aggregate. After that double humiliation OPS developed learned helplessness, eventually moved to Ykkönen and haven’t had a sniff of Big Cup since. Anyway, Jason’s claim that the current big Big Cup teams (and Monaco) were largely created by Big Cup doesn’t really hold water. A table of the winners of Big Cup from those 70s and 80s seasons reveals that, yes, Bayern Munich won three and lost two but Liverpool (who?) were the dominant force, winning four and losing one, while mighty Big Vase hopefuls Ajax (not to be confused with a bathroom cleaner) had a three wins no losses record, and the powerhouse that is Nottingham Forest (what’s THAT?) were there or thereabouts with two wins no losses. Yes, yes, perennial plucky Big Cup underdogs Juventus won one and lost two, but a little further down the table come the surely-a-dead-cert-for-Big-Cup-this-year Steaua Bucharest (won one lost one) and, of course, the best team in-or-around Birmingham, well, let’s go with ‘in Aston’ to reduce controversy, the Villa! Soooo, a little too much variance unexplained by your model, Jason – come back with a new one that fits the data better” – Kevin McKee.
“I quite enjoyed my travel circuit from Cyrillic characters (Wednesday’s Fiver) to English via the Google translator. I didn’t know ‘Joint Stock Company’ was a brand name for alcohol but am always willing to learn. I suspect the Fiver found the Cyrillic characters by itself consulting the Google translator. Here we go loop de loop — and I, at any rate, did the ride without alcohol” – James Yeager (and 1,056 others).
• Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Johnny Connelly.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
It could be that Ronald Koeman is in it for the long haul at Everton after saying he won’t coach Barça until he’s taken the Toffees into Big Cup.
West Ham may have the rare treat of Andy Carroll up front for their dust-up with Spurs this weekend if the striker survives a thorough prodding of his groin-gah.
Monaco have said thanks, but no thanks to a £72m bid from Manchester United for their teenage goal-magnet Kylian Mbappé. The sort-of-French club are holding out for at least £100m, because well, you know, Ed Woodward.
The number of footballers seeking help for mental health problems is rising, according to the PFA. Michael Bennett, the organisation’s head of welfare, said that their welfare department, set up in 2012, received 160 enquiries from current and former players last year.
A Millwall supporters’ group is planning to stand in upcoming Big Vote. The AMS group intends to field an independent candidate in a Lewisham constituency to highlight the club’s continued concerns over their treatment from the local Labour council.
The whole 39th game thing has reared its head again – but this time it might actually be necessary with Swansea and Hull potentially on course for a one-off relegation battle royale.
Arsène Wenger says he is willing to end his epic beef with José Mourinho one day. “I am open always in life to everything, for peace” Wenger mused.
And Liverpool’s Centenary Stand will be renamed in honour of former player, manager and all-round club legend Kenny Dalglish. “His name is synonymous with our club, with our home and the city of Liverpool” cooed principal owner John W Henry.
Get your Football Weekly Extraaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa kicks here.
Has Taxpayer FC’s first season at the London Stadium been the first step into a bold thrusting modern future or an atmosphere-less soul-sapping damp squib? Jacob Steinberg assesses the first campaign after the move from Upton Park.
EFL suits may be all over Huddersfield for their mass team changes in their match at Birmingham but what constitutes a weakened team anyway in the modern game, ponders Paul Wilson.
Dani Alves – not yesterday’s man at all: Sachin Nakrani purrs over the full-back’s formidable display in Juventus’s expertly executed Big Cup win at Monaco.
Some of Francesco Totti’s best moments, as well as a remarkable goalscoring goalkeeper and Chris Wilder’s open-top bus trophy tumble are among the clips presented for your delectation in this week’s Classic YouTube.
José Mourinho will be glad of the fresh defensive options at his disposal for Manchester United’s Big Vase trip to Celta Vigo, who are no mugs going forward, writes Jamie Jackson.
And celebrating 30 years of the play-offs: Richard Foster charts how a controversial quick-fix has become a fixture of our footballing calendar.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
Ronald Koeman has declared there is “no chance” of him leaving Everton before his contract expires in 2019 despite reiterating that he dreams of coaching Barcelona.
The Everton manager has again been linked with a return to the Nou Camp, where he enjoyed great success as a player between 1989 and 1995, following an interview he gave to the Catalan newspaper Sport. In the interview Koeman claimed he had “two dreams to fulfil”: becoming coach of Holland, having been assistant to Guus Hiddink at the 1998 World Cup, and managing Barcelona. He also insisted, however, that he “owes” Everton and aims to lead the club to Champions League qualification next season.
Koeman insists he spoke to a Catalonian newspaper not because of the impending managerial vacancy at Barcelona but due to the upcoming 25th anniversary of the club’s first European Cup success, which his goal against Sampdoria at Wembley delivered.
Speaking at Everton’s Finch Farm training ground on Thursday, he said: “I have mentioned several times that it is a human ambition – for players and for managers – but that does not change my position or contract with Everton. I’m really happy with Everton and looking forward to next season and I will be part of the project. The interview was coming out because it is 25 years since we won the European Cup at Wembley. There is no chance I will leave Everton before the end of my contract.
“When I got the offer from Everton it was not about this season. Already in this season we showed that we are close to the top six but not close enough. It is a real compliment to the players what we achieved this season. For next season we like to do more. We need to learn from this season. I hope we will play in Europe [throughout] next season. It makes it more tough but we want to develop the team.”
Koeman refused to go into detail on Aaron Lennon’s condition, with the Everton winger receiving treatment for a stress-related illness, but insisted the pressure on players had increased for various reasons since his playing days.
“As you know the club mentioned that Aaron had a stress-related illness and it is a private situation,” the Everton manager said. “We try to give him all the support to help him come back as soon as possible. We have contact with him and his family and I think it is best we keep it inside between club, the player and his family. We would like to see him back but what is important now is for him to be like he was. Life, health, is more important than football.”
Asked whether there was added pressure on today’s players, he responded: “On one side yes because the whole social media is different than it was 20 years ago and of course that is more pressure. There is also more football, more games, international football – that is really tough for players.”
The Everton manager confirmed that Arouna Koné would not be offered a contract extension when his deal expires at the end of this season.
In the middle of one of their biggest wins of the season, the San Antonio Spurs suffered a painful loss. In the fourth quarter of what was shaping up to be a blowout victory over the Houston Rockets, Spurs point guard Tony Parker crumbled to the ground, clutching his left leg and eventually had to be carried off the floor. San Antonio ended up winning Game 2 121-96, evening up their series against Houston, but the post-game mood was anything but celebratory.
When asked by Tony Parker’s injury, Spurs head coach Gregg Popovich’s response was characteristically blunt: “It’s not good.” While the Spurs did not yet know the full extent of Parker’s injury they talked as if they were not expecting him back for at least the remainder of the series. “It’s hard to see him limping and hurting now and you kind of know we’re not going to see him any time soon,” said longtime team-mate Manu Ginobili after the game. On Thursday, it was confirmed Parker has a ruptured left quadriceps tendon and will miss the rest of the playoffs.
While Parker is no longer as central to the Spurs’ plans as he was during his peak – there was a stretch not that long ago where he was the undisputed team MVP – he has been a steadying presence. During their first round series against the Memphis Grizzlies, Parker put on a vintage performance, averaging 16.3 points, 3.0 assists and 2.2 rebounds while shooting 53.3% from the floor.
His injury means that San Antonio will have to find a way to replace Parker’s offense and the 25 minutes per game he’s averaged over the course of the season. Popovich will almost certainly promote the capable Patty Mills to start in his absence and give more playing time to Ginobili – although not too much considering he turns 40 in July. It’s also likely that Kawhi Leonard, who scored 34 points and went 13-for-16 in Wednesday’s game will have to take on yet even more of his team’s offensive burden. The Spurs have enough depth that losing their starting point guard isn’t as debilitating as it would be for other teams, but a back-up plan is a back-up plan for a reason.
The timing is also not particularly ideal for the Spurs, who are in the middle of a competitive series that very well could go the distance. The Rockets shocked the league by blowing the Spurs out 126-99 in Game 1 in AT&T Center, a place where San Antonio are normally nearly invulnerable. Even in Game 2’s blowout, the Rockets actually managed to play the Spurs close for the first three quarters despite Leonard and company holding James Harden to 3-for-17 shooting from the floor. It wasn’t until an early fourth quarter run that the game devolved into a lopsided laugher.
It’s strange to say this about a series which started with back-to-back blowouts, but Rockets/Spurs could be the most evenly matched series of the conference semi-finals, one which absolutely could be swayed by the loss of their veteran starting point guard (just ask the Chicago Bulls how that can go). The most encouraging thing for San Antonio on Wednesday, beyond avoiding falling into a 0-2 hole, was that their lead over the Rockets actually expanded after Parker left the game. It was the exact opposite of the Spurs’ uncharacteristic total meltdown in the second half of Game 1 and a positive reminder that their system can still overwhelm opponents even without the help of their longest tenured players.
But with Parker gone for the rest of the playoffs, we should look at the worst case scenario: we might have just seen the end of a Hall of Fame career. With Tim Duncan already retired and Ginobili likely to bow out this offseason (although it feels like we’ve said that every year) there’s been plenty of conversation about when Parker, whose skills have begun to decline, will join his former team-mates. For the most part, Parker has rejected the idea, even saying that he retired from international play in order to extend his NBA career “I want to end my Spurs career on a high note,” he said back in December, “I want to play five more years.”
As optimistic as Parker sounded at the time, age and injuries have a way of disrupting even the most determined athlete’s long term plans. If his injury ends up being serious enough to affect his career, there’s a chance that our final image of Parker will be of him clutching his leg in agony with the rest of his team on the other side of the court, forced to play without him. Let’s hope not, he deserves a better end than this.
There will not be any tears in the eyes of Eoin Morgan when he tosses up with his old sparring partner, William Porterfield, at Bristol on Friday or on Sunday at Lord’s, where they both started their professional careers a dozen years ago.
Back then Morgan was a novice on Middlesex’s books – and they saw a lot more of him in St John’s Wood in those days than they do now. Porterfield, meanwhile, was on the Lord’s groundstaff. Even as young men they were old mates since they had played under-13s cricket together in Ireland.
Steely-eyed Morgan is famously clinical in his analysis. For him a match against Ireland is “pretty much another game” and he gave short shrift to any notion that he might one day return to Irish colours with an immediate and decisive monosyllable. Morgan, on a whistle-stop trip back to England from India – he goes back next week for two IPL matches – is more interested in the evolution of England’s one-day team and the pursuit of that elusive Champions Trophy in June.
Morgan was clear about England’s plans for their first series against Ireland. They have a squad of 14 players but it would be a major surprise if the two men who are not included in the Champions Trophy squad, Steven Finn and Ben Duckett, get a game. “We’ve got David Willey coming back, who’s played Championship cricket, Liam Plunkett is back from a calf injury and Mark Wood has obviously had quite a long, arduous stint back from injury. So getting cricket under those guys’ belts is really important.”
Morgan confirmed that Jonny Bairstow, fresh from cracking 174 for Yorkshire against Durham as an opening batsman, will bat at No5 and that Sam Billings will keep wicket. He went on to explain this does not mean that Billings is number two in the wicketkeeping pecking order for white-ball cricket after Jos Buttler. “We have long identified that this is an opportunity to have a look at Sam fulfilling a similar role to that of Jos.” He acknowledged Bairstow would also like to keep and that the Yorkshireman fully understands the situation.
Billings is in danger of becoming the ultimate cricketing supersub. He will bat anywhere, he can keep wicket and Morgan describes him as a “gun” fieldsman. He has done the rounds this winter, not just in the IPL but also the Big Bash and the Pakistan Super league. He is cheerfully realistic about his status with England even if he would like that to change. “As long as I’m playing I can’t be too picky. Just playing is the main thing,” he says.
Billings, who may also return to India depending on the fate of the Delhi Daredevils, made observations about the IPL which must be music to the ears of Andrew Strauss and Morgan. “The best thing about the IPL is you share a dressing room [with big names] and previously in this country we haven’t made one-day cricket a priority,” he said. “But now people are petrified of our side. And you only find that out by talking to them. [Ben] Stokes gets a hundred, three man of the match awards. Everyone knows what he can do. Then there is [Chris] Woakes and Buttler. Every single person over there has made contributions and it shows our depth at the moment.”
There will be more grass visible on the pitch at Bristol than Billings has experienced in the IPL – “though not as much as we expected”, according to Morgan. Hence the anticipation is that England will play four pacemen and one spinner, with Joe Root on hand to help out. This would mean a straight choice between Moeen Ali, who made 90 opening the batting for Worcestershire at the weekend, and Adil Rashid. At Lord’s it is more likely that both spinners will play.
Porterfield was more open to the notion that this series, their first in England, would be a special occasion for the Irish. They are finally coming close to fulfilling their ambitions of playing Test cricket but the timing is not great since theirs is a team that is starting to grow old together.
It is instructive that Ireland have seven survivors from that great game in Bangalore in 2011 when England were spectacularly beaten in the World Cup; England have no survivors (Morgan was injured). A victory for Ireland in Bristol in 2017 would be even more remarkable.
While England’s men are all returning to fitness at just the right time (stiff competition for places often seems to make that happen) there was worrying news for the women’s side given the proximity of the World Cup. Their captain, Heather Knight, has sustained a small metatarsal fracture to her left foot and is expected to be out of action for five to six weeks. If her recovery goes as expected she should be available for selection for England’s warm-up match against Sri Lanka on 19 June.
To the majority of football supporters, the Italian game is a fallen giant. Serie A is seen as a fading image of what was once the best league on the planet – an image that remains vivid only in the memories of older generations. Its keenest aficionados will disagree but, given that most people only experience Italian clubs through European competitions, can they really be blamed for holding such a gloomy view of Serie A?
This year has followed a familiar trend, with Juventus the only team still in Europe at the start of April. Napoli were beaten by Real Madrid home and away in the last-16 of the Champions League, while Roma did not even make it to the group stage after their defeat to Porto in the qualifiers. Instead, they dropped into the Europa League, where they lost to Lyon in the last-16. But at least they went further than Fiorentina, who were knocked out in the first knockout stage, and Inter and Sassuolo, who both finished bottom of their groups. Inter, champions of Europe just seven years ago, finished below Sparta Prague, Hapoel Be’er Sheva and Southampton.
Italian clubs have proved disappointing in Europe and the country’s stadiums and academies are still outdated, but there are reasons for optimism. A number of clubs are competing for places in Europe and others have shown signs that they can step up and challenge for the title. Juve continue to raise the bar every season but, if the chasing pack continue to improve, there is significant evidence that Italian clubs are on their way back to the elite. There is now considerable quality, verve and excitement in the league – and more than a glimmer at the end of the tunnel.
Despite Juve’s seemingly comfortable glide towards a sixth successive Scudetto, this season has revealed a tough battle for the top six positions in the league, with fans likely to be on the edge of their seats until the last minute of the last game. At the very top of the table, Juventus sit nine points above Roma and 10 above Napoli, but both clubs possess the technical excellence required to challenge the leaders. They just lack that intangible quality: a “winning mentality”. Juventus have played some of their least entertaining football this season but Napoli and Roma (who have both outscored them in the league) have still been unable to exploit their occasional slip-ups. For instance, Juventus could only draw with Atalanta on Friday night but Roma responded by losing the derby 3-1 to Lazio on Sunday afternoon.
Napoli have shown glimpses of sheer brilliance under Maurizio Sarri this season and are perhaps the only Italian club to have gone out of Europe with pride, after winning their Champions League group and then putting up a hearty display against Real Madrid in the last-16. With one of the most aesthetically pleasing styles in Europe and their place in next season’s Champions League qualifiers all but guaranteed, they look ready to step up in the league and in Europe.
Lazio, who sit seven points behind Napoli with four games to place, are building a fine squad under Simone Inzaghi and have the potential to compete the elite next season. They have recovered well after the Marcelo Bielsa scandal in the summer – when he resigned after just two days in the job – and have the Coppa Italia final against Juventus to look forward to.
Remarkably, the last automatic Europa League place does not belong to Milan, Inter or Fiorentina – who sit in sixth, seventh and eighth – but to Atalanta, the season’s surprise package. Gianpiero Gasperini’s team have provided a blueprint for success for provincial teams who are willing to invest and trust in local talents, which has been sorely in the Italian game in recent years. Indeed, though Atalanta may lack the necessary prestige to keep hold of their most promising starlets – with midfielder Roberto Gagliardini already having joined Inter and defender Mattia Caldara bound for Juventus in two years – Gian Piero Gasperini’s men have been a breath of fresh air and positive ambassadors for Italian football.
The youngest team fielded in Serie A this season belongs to Milan, who have regularly put out an XI with an average age of just 24. Vincenzo Montella has a solid core of young talents – including 22-year-old Alessio Romagnoli, 19-year-old Manuel Locatelli, 23-year-old Suso and 18-year-old goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma – and they earned some good experience by beating Juventus to win the Supercoppa Italiana for the first time in five years in December.
The club has an experienced CEO in Marco Fassone and their new Chinese owners say they want to retain their young talents while adding quality to the squad. It will take time and effort, but it’s a project that excites the owners, according to Fassone. “We’ll have a significant budget for the next transfer window,” said the CEO last month. “The goal for the coming years is to build a very competitive and ambitious Milan.”
Inter, also acquired by Chinese owners within the last year, are determined to kickstart their climb back to the top. After numerous managerial tribulations – with Roberto Mancini leaving shortly before the season began and Frank de Boer sacked midway through the campaign – and some dubious investments in the transfer market (namely Brazilian forward Gabriel Barbosa and French midfielder Geoffrey Kondogbia), Inter’s main aim should be to restructure the squad in the summer. If their new owners prove competent and ambitious, both Milan clubs could be back on their feet soon.
The Milanese giants have a long way to go if they want to catch Juventus. The Old Lady are the only domestic champions left in Europe this season and are on course to win a treble in the next month. But Milan and Inter – like Roma, Napoli, Lazio and Atalanta – know what they have to do: knock Juve off their perch, both domestically and in Europe.
• This article first appeared on The Gentleman Ultra• Follow Fede Manasse and The Gentleman Ultra on Twitter
St Helens have confirmed the appointment of Justin Holbrook as their new head coach on a two-and-a-half year contract.
The Saints have been looking for a coach since the departure of Keiron Cunningham last month. A three-man coaching team of Derek Traynor, Jamahl Lolesi and the former Great Britain half-back Sean Long had been in temporary charge.
The club had suggested they were in no rush to replace Cunningham, even saying Traynor, Lolesi and Long could remain in charge for the rest of the season. However, as exclusively revealed in The Guardian on Thursday, the former Super League champions settled on Holbrook after being impressed at a recent interview.
The Saints chief executive, Mike Rush, had travelled to Australia to source candidates, with Holbrook placed on a shortlist alongside the former Salford coach John Cartwright and the former Wigan and Leeds forward David Furner.
“We are delighted to secure Justin; he is widely experienced and has a track record of coaching at the highest level,” Mike Rush, the club’s chief executive, told the club’s website.
“He impressed us with his knowledge of the British game and his work with younger players,” Rush added.
“I’m excited about the opportunity to be the head coach of St Helens. The club has a rich and proud history and I am very grateful to have been given the opportunity,” Holbrook said.
“St Helens are one of the top teams in the Super League competition with a history of success. I will be working hard to continue that tradition and I cannot wait to get started.”
Holbrook will be a largely unfamiliar name in this country. He has worked at NRL sides Canterbury, St George and Parramatta before becoming assistant to the former Catalans coach, Trent Robinson, at Sydney Roosters.
Saints are delighted to announce the appointment of Justin Holbrook as Head Coach. https://t.co/V83Hg7LDLQ #saintsasone pic.twitter.com/0tmXMA9edC
The 41-year-old also coaches the Junior Kangaroos, the Australia Under-20s side. The Junior Kangaroos play their New Zealand counterparts on Friday; it is unclear whether Holbrook will remain in Australia for that match, but he is expected to travel to the UK “as soon as possible”.
Holbrook becomes the latest in a line of NRL assistants to take coaching roles in Super League; examples include Robinson himself, as well as the former Wigan coach Michael Maguire, who was an assistant at Melbourne Storm before joining the Warriors in 2010, when he led Wigan to the Super League title during his first season in charge.
Holbrook’s immediate objective will be to steer St Helens away from a battle to avoid the bottom four and the Qualifiers. The Saints are seventh, only two points ahead of ninth-placed Warrington: who they play on Friday at the Halliwell Jones Stadium.
Arsène Wenger has admitted he will one day be open to burying the hatchet with José Mourinho. “I am open always in life to everything, for peace,” the Arsenal manager said.
These are strange times for two Premier League managerial symbols, who will meet at the Emirates Stadium on Sunday in a relatively modest contest between the division’s fifth- and sixth-placed teams but it would be overstating it to suggest they are ready to share much empathy just yet.
“What is important when you are a competitor is you give absolutely everything to win the next game,” Wenger said. “I do not make of it a managers’ fight. I want that my team shows up and gives a performance on Sunday and plays well.”
The pressure that has closed in on Arsenal for much of a disappointing 2017 tightened last weekend with their defeat at Tottenham, which leaves Wenger, for the umpteenth time in recent weeks, calling on his team to respond. Arsenal are five points behind United with a game in hand, and six behind Manchester City in fourth, so there is no margin for another setback in terms of their slim hopes of grasping a Champions League position.
Wenger showed little interest in the notion that Mourinho could field a weakened team because of United’s Europa League campaign. “We focus on our performance,” he said. “I don’t know what Manchester United will do. We know they have a massive squad with quality players. No matter who plays, they will have a strong team out. Only a top-level performance will get us the win we want. Both teams are in the position where they have to win the game to have a little chance to be in the top four.”
It was put to Wenger the example of United’s decline in the aftermath of Sir Alex Ferguson’s departure might be an example to Arsenal. A worry, perhaps? “No, it can as well go better from when I leave one day,” he mused. “You know, when you are such a long time at a club like I am, like Ferguson was, it is a little bit like when you have children. Even when you are not there any more, you want them to be happy.
“I am not in a position to judge what happened to Man United. I am sure they will come back and fight for the Premier League again. They are in a rebuilding phase and they have quality inside the club and the resources to come back.”
Although a Europa League campaign has never been in Wenger’s remit, he insists if that is what this difficult season boils down to it would not have a huge impact on Arsenal’s summer recruitment policy and the type of player they identify. But in the spirit of the club’s structural stasis with the future of the manager and so many players in the balance, that appears to be a complicated topic whatever competition they end up in next season.
As has been the case for many weeks, Wenger is looking only at the game in front of him.
The Boston Red Sox have permanently banned a man from Fenway Park who was said to have used a racial slur at another fan at Tuesday’s game against the Baltimore Orioles.
“I’m here to send a message loud and clear that the treatment of others that you’ve been reading about here lately is unacceptable,” Red Sox president Sam Kennedy told reporters during Wednesday’s game.
The incident was separate from the racial abuse weathered by Orioles outfielder Adam Jones earlier in the series.
Earlier Wednesday, Major League Baseball had told the Red Sox and Orioles to stop their festering feud. Then the umpires backed it up.
Hours after a conference call to tell the Red Sox and Orioles “Enough is enough,” Baltimore starter Kevin Gausman was ejected in the second inning for hitting a batter and Boston went on to win 4-2 on Wednesday night.
“Given the situation and the tension between the two clubs and all the stuff that’s gone over the past few weeks, we’re all on high alert with anything,” crew chief Sam Holbrook said after the game. “There needs to be an end to this stuff, and I felt like an ejection was the right thing to do at that time.”
Orioles center fielder Adam Jones was tossed later, after arguing a called strike in the fifth. On Monday night, the All-Star was the target of racial slurs at Fenway Park, and on Tuesday the Red Sox fans gave him a loud ovation. He did not comment after the game.
Gausman was ejected after what appeared to be a curveball hit Xander Bogaerts. Catcher Caleb Joseph slammed his mask on the plate and manager Buck Showalter bolted from the dugout to argue. Gausman looked puzzled, at first, and then started shouting. Gausman said it was “pretty bush league” that he was tossed, especially since Red Sox starter Chris Sale was merely warned after throwing a pitch behind Manny Machado the night before.
“He did it on purpose, and everybody knew it,” Gausman said. “For him to get away with it, and I hit a guy with a curveball and they throw me out of the game, that’s pretty ridiculous.”
Josh Rutledge drove in a pair of runs for Boston after entering the game in the first inning when starting third baseman Marco Hernandez left with a strained left shoulder. Drew Pomeranz (3-1) gave up two runs on five hits, his fourth time in five starts he’s allowed two or fewer runs.
Craig Kimbrel struck out the side in the ninth, fanning Machado to end it for his 10th save. Gausman (1-3) took the loss. Reliever Richard Bleier allowed Bogaerts to score on Rutledge’s single in the second.
• Torre held a conference call with the two managers, Red Sox president of baseball operations Dave Dombrowski and Orioles general manager Dan Duquette on Wednesday afternoon. Red Sox manager John Farrell said Torre had told the teams to calm tensions, but that there were no warnings about hit batters.
“I guess the best way to describe it is: I can confirm that there was a call and it happened for both clubs, to basically address the last two weeks and to say, ‘Enough is enough,’” Farrell said before the game, adding that he hoped that would be the end of it.
A stray foul ball is usually the most dangerous thing a fan has to deal with at the baseball but on Tuesday a fan at a St Louis Cardinals game felt a pain in her elbow – it later emerged a bullet had grazed her arm.
The victim was sitting behind the home team dugout at Busch Park when the incident happened, and other spectators soon realized something was seriously wrong. Todd Porter, who was sat nearby, told the St Louis Post-Dispatch that the woman said she thought she had been shot. “We thought she was joking, but everybody turned around and she showed me the blood coming down from her elbow,” Porter said. “It looked real purple and red and it looked like there was a hole in her jacket.”
The woman found a bullet slug under her seat, and security was called. Police later confirmed they found the slug and had earlier received reports of shots being fired around a mile from the ground. They believed someone may have been firing into the air.
The Cardinals released a statement confirming they were aware of the incident. “There is nothing more important than the safety of our fans, and the Cardinals are grateful that no one was seriously injured,” read the statement. 
Porter told the Post-Dispatch he was angry the club did not tell fans earlier. “This is terrible,” he said. “Someone is shot in the elbow and no one hears about it? Let the public know what’s going on. If somebody out there is shooting, I understand you didn’t want people to get up during the game and run, but at least let people know this happened as soon as possible and know, ‘We’re sorry to hear it happened to her and checking to find out what happened.’”
Incredibly, this is not the first time a Cardinals fan has been shot at a game. In 1965, a gunman held up the ticket office at Sportsman’s Park, which was then the home of the Cardinals, and a stray bullet grazed a teenage fan’s throat. She made a full recovery.

From a business perspective, it was not hard to understand why West Ham United found it impossible to resist the allure of the London Stadium, with its agreeably large capacity, vast corporate facilities, proximity to the capital’s centre and Olympic legacy. It seemed to tick all the boxes for a club looking to reach the next level, as long as everyone kept in mind the football team that was going to play there. They would have to feel as comfortable as those sitting in the posh seats. After almost a year in their new home, they don’t.
West Ham’s players have played ball in public, obligingly telling the world about what a thrill it is to play in such a wonderful, modern stadium, even though they have suffered some humiliations there this season. The truth is different in private, where the brave faces disappear and the grumbling begins. Slaven Bilic’s team feel so uneasy in the stadium one senior player describes the Stratford experience as “terrible”.
The obvious counter to such complaints is West Ham have a poor home record because they are a poor team led by an average manager. In normal circumstances, that would be enough. West Ham endured enough ordeals at Upton Park to know a stadium’s power is limited. True, Manchester City have hit nine without reply on their two visits to the London Stadium, Arsenal won 5-1 and even Astra Giurgiu came away with a 1-0 victory that led to the Romanian underdogs qualifying for the Europa League, but what’s new? When West Ham were relegated in 2003, they did not win at Upton Park until the end of January.
There is finite value to be gained from romanticising Upton Park. The atmosphere could be damagingly poisonous, the facilities were tired and the transport links dismal. It held 35,000 and West Ham made £26.9m in matchday revenue last season. The London Stadium holds 57,000 and West Ham are seeking permission to increase its capacity to 66,000. Supporters with open minds simply had to do the maths to understand the board’s position and accept this was West Ham’s chance to take on Arsenal, Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur on a stronger financial footing.
Those who are less certain can expect West Ham’s vice-chair, Karren Brady, to point to 52,000 season-ticket holders, 10,000 under-16s who regularly attend matches, 36,000 members and a waiting list for season tickets that stretches to 55,000. She is also proud of the club’s rise to 18th in the Deloitte Money League after turning over £144m in 2016. Season ticket prices have been frozen.
The numbers are impressive. Yet where there was excitement last August, by October there was cynicism over slapdash summer signings, stewarding and ticketing problems, an increasingly lacklustre atmosphere, violence inside and outside the ground and the awkward sight of large pockets of empty seats during some games. Post-match queues for trains at Stratford have tested even the mildest of tempers, which definitely was not in the brochure.
It would all be easier for supporters to stomach if the team were in better shape. There have been flashes of promise – Andy Carroll’s overhead kick against Crystal Palace, the League Cup win over Chelsea in October – but the experience has been disappointing overall. Having challenged for Champions League qualification in their smaller, traditional ground last season, West Ham have flirted with relegation this time. Fifteenth with three matches left, they could still be relegated. The London Stadium move was not made with the Championship in mind.
The running track is a huge problem but is here to stay. This is the price to pay for playing in a quasi athletics arena
West Ham will be fortunate to survive another year of this. They host Tottenham on Friday and Liverpool next Sunday. Lose both matches and they will end the season with six home wins, four draws and nine defeats, having lost three times in the league at Upton Park last season.
In different circumstances, Spurs would undoubtedly view a trip to West Ham as tricky. It certainly was when their title challenge faltered under the lights last season, Michail Antonio scoring the only goal on an evening when the Hammers’ fans gave Mauricio Pochettino’s team the most inhospitable of East End welcomes.
That closeness, that claustrophobia, has been conspicuous by its absence this season. Because of the running track, the players struggle to feel the atmosphere and the distance from the pitch prevents the crowd from getting on top of visiting teams. The place simply feels too big for a team of West Ham’s stature and it was striking to hear Pep Guardiola make that point after City’s 5-0 win in the FA Cup in January. “Today we controlled a bit more, through the passes,” Guardiola said. “The pitch, the stadium, helped us in that sense. It looks like it’s bigger. It’s an impression.”
The pitch at Upton Park was 100.5m x 68m, while the London Stadium is five metres longer and the same width. However Guardiola’s comments echoed ones made by Sir Trevor Brooking, who warned that teams would raise their game at Stratford. The psychological impact of playing in a stadium regarded as a soft touch should not be underestimated. Without that home advantage, West Ham’s frailties become more exposed. Tottenham are likely to enjoy themselves on Friday evening.
Some progress has been made off the pitch. The fault for many of the early problems belonged to the stadium operators rather than West Ham and they have been mostly ironed out. The club’s response to the trouble that marred the cup win over Chelsea was strong and there has been no repeat.
But other issues will not go away in a hurry. For all that it takes time to turn a house into a home, this is a venue with architectural flaws such as the large gap between the tiers, the effect of which is to make the stadium feel disorienting, too spaced out and cobbled together. The running track is a huge problem but it is here to stay. This is the price to pay for playing in a quasi-athletics arena.
The point of going to football instead of watching on television is to smell the action. Sit too low and you will struggle to see the other end; too far back and it feels like you are in a different postcode. You drift off. You leave early. You decide that was a waste of money. You stay at home next time.
What was it all for? West Ham’s owners, David Gold and David Sullivan, are determined to challenge the elite. There is an iron belief that moving was the right decision and it is possible to be sympathetic towards the argument that expanding Upton Park would have made little impact on the club’s finances because the surrounding area was so cramped.
Equally, however, the London Stadium gamble will only be seen as a success if West Ham move forward on the pitch. That was the deal: turn 112 years of history into flats, focus on the brand, change the badge on the shirt, sell popcorn to tourists – just have something to show for it at the end. Only one thing will compensate supporters who feel a loss of identity and connection with their club: trophies. The stakes are high.
Gold and Sullivan are determined to challenge the elite. There is an iron belief that moving was the right call
But the last of West Ham’s four major honours was the FA Cup 37 years ago. Their highest finish, achieved in 1986, is third. They have been relegated four times since then. Bilic recently said Bayern Munich and Juventus benefited from moving to new stadiums. Yet both of those clubs left running tracks behind. They have also enjoyed a touch more success than West Ham, the fourth biggest club in London.
It is already crowded at the top in England. The historical power of Arsenal, Liverpool and Manchester United gives them a head start. Chelsea and City are owned by billionaires. Tottenham, cleverly run, are on the rise. Where is there room for a club that sells Dimitri Payet and signs Robert Snodgrass? The competition is not hanging around. Elsewhere in the city, Chelsea have unveiled plans to redevelop Stamford Bridge and Tottenham are putting the finishing touches to the new White Hart Lane. Neither ground will feature a running track.
Expectations rose dramatically and instantly when West Ham swapped E13 for E20 but they are yet to respond in the transfer market and are almost starting from scratch this summer.
These are still early days and it is hard to put a timeframe on how long West Ham will have to wait before flexing their financial muscles. It could take one year; it could take 10. If it is to be the latter, the pressure will intensify as doubts grow and patience wears thin.
Millwall’s battle against the seizure of its land by the local Labour council has taken an unexpected twist, with a supporters’ group candidate set to stand in the general election.
The plan to compulsorily purchase land occupied by Millwall’s community trust and sell it on to an offshore-owned developer was abandoned in January. An independent inquiry into the affair is being carried out by Lord Dyson, a former Master of the Rolls but the beached scheme continues to cause uncomfortable vibrations, not least as part of a profound sense of distrust between club, supporters and local politicians.
Against this background the Millwall AMS supporters group plans to put up an independent candidate in a Lewisham constituency to highlight the continuing unhappiness at local Labour’s treatment of the borough’s chief community sporting asset.
The AMS has raised funds to back the bid, which will involve pitting an independent against one of three prospective Labour MPs. Lewisham has been a de facto one-party state in Westminster and local elections in recent years, with MPs such as Heidi Alexander, who was the local council member for regeneration when the New Bermondsey scheme was first mooted, commanding huge majorities. However, a local protest candidate could still cause some embarrassment given the strength of feeling and the wider volatility in recent elections.
The Millwall fan candidate will stand on a platform of transparency in local government and the inclusion of the club in all regeneration plans around its stadium. There has already been speculation over the identity of the Millwall-for-the-people candidate, although the Guardian understands this will not be a celebrity campaign, despite mention of Danny Baker’s name on social media.
Nor is it yet clear in which constituency the Millwall candidate will stand. Vicky Foxcroft, the MP for Lewisham and Deptford, has made a public declaration of support for the club staying in the borough. Alexander and Ellie Reeves, candidates for the safe seat of Lewisham West and Penge, have yet to make any statement.
Since the abandonment of the CPO plans some Labour politicians have made efforts to build bridges with the club and its supporters. Councillor Alan Hall of Lewisham council’s scrutiny committee remains a hugely popular figure after his work holding the bodged CPO scheme up to the light. But with mayoral elections due next year in the borough, which is home to 300,000 people, the controversy could yet cast a longer cloud.
Either way the prospect of Millwall supporters running for parliament is likely to enliven the election campaign, with talk of mass publicity, a social media “firestorm” and various banana-themed stunts. The bananas are a reference to the mayor of Lewisham Sir Steve Bullock, also known as Mayor Bananaman after the revelation the foundation he fronted as part of the CPO scheme had the same home address as the banana-chomping superhero, whose alter ego is named Eric Wimp.
It requires only a cursory glance at the Six Nations viewing figures to understand why Premiership Rugby’s deal with Channel 5 to broadcast five matches a season on terrestrial TV makes obvious sense.
A combined 11 million tuned in for the two most popular matches on the BBC and ITV and if it is clearly fanciful to suggest similar numbers will do so for club competitions, there is a sizeable potential audience. A certain type of casual rugby fan in need of a little push.
The post-Six Nations drop-off is an annual problem for rugby union and while there are many factors in play – BBC Wales’s promotional anti-English video during this year’s competition was in poor taste but renewing national rivalries on a yearly basis is evidently part of the tournament’s appeal – live English club rugby screened on free-to-air TV for the first time next season is a significant step.
The fact it is Channel 5 which will simulcast the matches – at the same time as BT Sport which only stands to gain from the four-year deal worth more than £1m – is also relevant. Its successful bid, described not so much as an auction but a “beauty contest”, was largely centred around showcasing its cricket coverage, which includes highlights of England’s home matches and, again in conjunction with BT Sport, simulcasting Australia’s Big Bash League.
It is relevant because there is clear overlap between the two sports’ demographic audiences and the removal of cricket from the crown jewels – a list of sporting events ring-fenced for terrestrial TV – has allowed rugby union to prosper, to grab cricket’s land in mainstream media coverage.
BT Sport’s investment and commitment has undoubtedly helped – its chummy punditry is not always for everyone but since it began broadcasting Premiership rugby in 2013, TV audiences have risen by 40% and in its existing deal that runs to 2021 it will show up to 80 matches a season. A free-to-air platform, however, is an altogether different proposition.
The ITV4 highlights show pulls in 500,000 viewers on a good day – BT Sport draws less than that – but insiders forecast that with Channel 5 on board total figures will reach as high as 1.5 million on a given weekend. As the Exeter chairman, Tony Rowe, said: “The reality is that it’s all about exposure. The deal we’ve done with BT Sport is good, it’s going up year on year but you can’t beat terrestrial TV. Instead of talking in the 100,000s, you’re talking in the millions.”
Last year Premiership Rugby announced a deal with NBC to broadcast rights in the United States and from next year onwards matches will be shown live in China on a weekly basis for the first time. Throw in its ham-fisted proposal for a 10-month season and it begins to look like expansionism, but the reasons are obvious – few Premiership clubs make a profit, although Rowe hopes the latest deal will go some way to addressing that.
“To attract more sponsors, you need more viewing figures and it’s a great stepping stone,” hesaid. “Premiership rugby is still in its infancy and trying to compete with other European clubs, we have to up the salaries but there is still not a lot of money in the game. I’m sure it will go a long way to improving the number of sponsors that are interested.”
A number of details of Channel 5’s deal are yet to be ironed out – who will front the coverage is expected to be announced in early summer – but it will not be feeding off scraps. “Games that matter” was how the five matches were described and while BT  Sport ultimately chooses its schedule, Channel 5 will pick premium matches, most likely after the Six Nations Championship, when international players are on show and the end-of-season shake-up is coming into view.
Indeed, the climax to the domestic season is perennially a problem. The Champions Cup semi-finals took place on the same weekend as the last four of the FA Cup and while Premiership Rugby recorded its largest ever weekend attendances in early April, broadcast figures no doubt dipped for half an hour during the Grand National. It is a time of the year when the spotlight is that much harder to earn and while terrestrial coverage is not a silver bullet, it will help.
It remains to be seen whether Channel 5 will broadcast Friday matches, Saturday, Sunday or a mixture but while the former tend to show a marginal drop-off in viewing figures, more relevant is the quality of the fixture. That in turn raises the question of favouritism towards more glamorous clubs. Wasps, for example, with their all-singing, all-dancing attacking style, would perhaps be a greater pull than other clubs without such a stellar cast-list of players and while there will be a limit on how often a certain club will be featured, not all 12 will get their day in the sun every season. The hope, however, is that they would across the four years, and perhaps a touch optimistically, that there will be a willingness to work towards the greater good.
Incidentally, this is not the first time that Channel 5 has bid for domestic rugby union. In 2003 it had hoped to show highlights as part of the BBC’s Heineken Cup coverage, which was gazumped by Sky Sports at the 11th hour in October that year. Just weeks later England lifted the World Cup and suddenly there was no live English club rugby on terrestrial TV. That it has taken 14 years to return demonstrates the challenges facing the club game but it is clearly a move in the right direction.
Conor Murray has given the British & Irish Lions a lift by confirming his return from a shoulder-related nerve injury is imminent.
Warren Gatland, the Lions head coach, had said Murray must prove his fitness for Munster before the squad depart for New Zealand on 29 May if he is to participate in the tour and his first-choice scrum-half could be back as early as this weekend. If Saturday’s clash with Connacht proves too early, the Ireland international will make his first appearance since the penultimate round of the Six Nations in the Guinness Pro12 semi-final in a fortnight’s time.
“I’m good, finally. I’ve been training with the lads for the last couple of weeks and trained on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of this week,” Murray said. “I’ve been doing gradual return-to-play contact, hopefully I’ll be playing soon.”
On the evening of Thursday 14 May 1987, six matches kicked off across the country that would determine which three clubs would snap up the last available places in each division of English football. A combined attendance of 77,452 witnessed the very first series of play-off matches in the Football League, with as few as 4,164 gathered at the Recreation Ground in Aldershot and as many as 29,472 assembled at Elland Road. There was no great fanfare, with the media pretty much shunning the games. It would have been feasible to blink and miss the arrival of the play-offs.
Television coverage was almost non-existent, apart from the odd local news clip tucked away in the sports bulletin. The written press paid scant attention to the arrival of this new-fangled competition, with newspapers reports perfunctory at best. The Times summed up the Division Four semi-final first leg in a single sentence: “Gary Johnson raised Aldershot’s hopes of Third Division football next season with a goal 13 minutes from the end.” A Minor Counties versus Glamorgan cricket match was given more coverage than any of the semi-finals. Oh, how the Times and times have changed.
When the two-legged finals kicked off at the end of May there was a marginal increase in media interest, but this only stretched to a few paragraphs in the national press rather than a few sentences. There were no live broadcasts in those days and it was expected that the play-offs would only last for a few years. They were introduced purely as a mechanism to phase in the reduction of the old First Division from 22 clubs down to 20.
As the Football League was restructured through the so-called Heathrow Agreement the man responsible for their introduction, Martin Lange, who was chairman of Brentford at the time, admitted that there was not much consideration of the consequences among the chairmen who voted for them. “We threw in the play-offs at the end and as all the guys were interested in was the money side,” said Lange. “They were not too concerned about the play-offs. I couldn’t see them lasting for 20 years, 10 years, probably not even five years.”
Lange’s pessimism proved unfounded and 30 years later the play-offs are thriving, having become firmly established as the pinnacle of the 72 Football League clubs’ season and with the finals providing the EFL with their showpiece occasions, their jewels in the crown. Over the next few weeks, Sky Sports will show all 15 play-off games live and there will be well in excess of 50 hours of airtime dedicated to a competition. When Exeter City qualified for the League Two play-offs at the weekend, they became the 97th club to have done so. By the time the Championship play-offs final has been decided on 29 May, there will have been a total of 477 play-off matches since that tentative start in 1987.
The format has not changed much in the last 30 years. The biggest difference is that, in the first two years there was a relegation slot, with one club from a higher division battling it out with three clubs from the division below. Of the six clubs involved from higher divisions in those first two years, five ended up being relegated, including Chelsea, who dropped out of the First Division after losing 2-1 on aggregate to Middlesbrough. So Charlton Athletic can lay claim to being the only club to avoid relegation through the play-offs, having eventually overcome Leeds in extra-time in a replay at St Andrews in 1987. After John Sheridan had given Leeds the lead in the 99th minute, centre-back Peter Shirtliff was the unlikeliest of goalscoring heroes with a brace in the space of four minutes. Considering the Barnsley-born Shirtliff managed a total of 15 goals in his 18-year career, this was a purple patch his fellow Yorkshiremen could have done without.
The inaugural Second Division play-off final also went to a replay after Swindon Town drew 2-2 with Gillingham on aggregate. Swindon won the replay 2-0 at Selhurst Park but Lou Macari, their victorious manager, was clearly not an early adopter and was not getting carried away on a wave of euphoria. “I never want to go through a night like that again,” said Macari. “The play-offs are unfair and should be scrapped.” Fortunately, for the majority of us who relish these end-of-season shenanigans, Macari’s damning words fell on deaf ears.
The play-offs have always divided opinion, with some arguing they are unfair and even a little cruel to clubs that finish streets ahead of their rivals only to be denied promotion after the regular league season. That argument was given more credence in 2016, when none of the top-placed teams in the play-offs – Brighton, Walsall and Accrington Stanley – even qualified for the finals and were beaten by teams who were collectively 35 points behind them. Joe Royle was Oldham manager when they faced Leeds in the 1987 semi-final and he joined Macari in railing against the injustice of it all: “We finished seven points clear of Leeds. So to go out on away goals to them means there is something unjust. I welcomed the play-offs but possibly hadn’t considered the long-term ramifications.”
Despite Royle’s warnings about long-term ramifications, the play-offs have gone on to become a popular, enduring feature of the football calendar. Their ability to create drama and tension was perfectly illustrated in Royle’s next managerial tilt at the play-offs a dozen years on, when he was in charge of Manchester City. May 1999 proved to be quite a month for both Manchester clubs. United completed their treble with that stunning last-gasp victory over Bayern Munich at Camp Nou and, four days later, City met Gillingham at Wembley as they attempted to escape from the third tier, which they had dropped into for the first time in their history the previous season.
The Second Division play-offs final may not have the glamour of the Champions League final but this match was arguably just as significant for City. Nearly 77,000 people watched agog as, in an eerie parallel with the events in Barcelona, the match was won by two improbably late goals with the added spice of some friendly rivalry. When Gillingham goalkeeper Vince Bartram agreed to be Paul Dickov’s best man he probably did not envisage what the groom would do to him a few months later.
After scoring two late goals – in the 81st and 86th minutes – to take a seemingly unassailable 2-0 lead, Tony Pulis’ team could taste second-tier football for the first time in their history. Kevin Horlock’s 89th-minute goal had the whiff of consolation on it and did not stem the flow of City fans leaving the stadium for a disconsolate trek back north as they contemplated having to face taunts from United fans. But nobody, including his close friend Bartram, had factored in Dickov’s capacity to engineer a miraculous rescue with his 95th-minute equaliser that in many senses laid the foundations for City’s rise to the Premier League title just over a decade later. City won the match on penalties, with Gillingham only scoring one of their four kicks.
Despite this pivotal moment for City, one central character was still not convinced by the play-offs. Undoubtedly still scarred by his experiences with Oldham in 1987, Royle was forthright in his criticism: “They deserved this,” he said of the City fans, “But I still hate the play-offs. They are a lottery and a joke. We played 46 games and finished third and that should have been enough to take us up without three extra cup finals.”
Royle’s objection ignores the stimulating effect on a whole raft of teams who would have been immersed in mid-table torpor but for the hope of making the play-offs. Without them, two of last season’s most memorable stories would not have materialised. The continuing rise of AFC Wimbledon from their 2002 rebirth to their sixth promotion in 13 seasons courtesy of the League Two play-offs final victory against Plymouth Argyle is an inspiration to clubs in the lower leagues.
The man primarily responsible for this 21st-century fairytale was a loyal devotee of the club who made 301 appearances for the original Wimbledon FC between 1991 and 2002 and took over as manager in 2012. Neal Ardley was understandably euphoric after the match as he reflected on his journey with the club. “It’s what you dream of,” he said. “To stand there in front of 20,000 people who 14 years ago had their club ripped away from them, and stand there as one of their own who came through the ranks at the age of 11, it doesn’t get any better than that. You can write any story you want.” Hollywood scriptwriters had been suitably alerted.
Matching Ardley’s achievement in 2016 was the remarkable renaissance of Barnsley, who were bottom of League One in early December but triumphed over Millwall at Wembley only six months later in the unlikeliest of promotions. Barnsley’s recovery was even more impressive considering that, just as they were gaining momentum in February having reached the top half of the table, their manager Lee Johnson suddenly left to join Bristol City.
Stepping into the breach was Barnsley-born Paul Heckingbottom, who was taking over as caretaker manager for the second time in the space of a year. Like Ardley, 39-year-old Heckingbottom had played for the club he was managing, making the success all the sweeter. The manager’s future was not secure right up until the end of the season. “The message was always that we would start speaking after our last game,” Heckingbottom said. “Now we can sort everyone’s future out. Everyone knows I want to stay. If I hadn’t been on the bench I’d have been here watching.”
The captivating stories of Barnsley and AFC Wimbledon from last year reinforce the uplifting spirit that characterises the play-offs over the last 30 years and their positive impact on English football. Surely not even Royle or Macari would want to turn back the clock 30 years to those days of automatic promotion and deny us all the delights of what former Leyton Orient chairman Barry Hearn once described as “the best invention ever” even though his team had just lost the 2001 Third Division final.
Richard’s updated book on the play-offs, The Agony and the Ecstasy, is out next week
As soon as Huddersfield Town made 10 changes for their match at Birmingham City on Saturday it was clear there was going to be trouble. There is resting and there is rotation but 10 changes seems both unnecessary and provocative, and more or less bound to invite investigation.
Ten was the number of changes Mick McCarthy infamously made in 2009 when Wolves were faced with a tricky midweek match at Old Trafford before a winnable home game against Burnley. Despite his argument that his much-altered team still contained a number of internationals and experienced players McCarthy could not disguise the fact that he had essentially written off the Manchester United game to inevitable defeat – Wolves lost 3-0 – and the club was fined a suspended £25,000 to prevent any similar stunts later in the season. They did beat Burnley the following weekend, however, so McCarthy got what he wanted, even if the 70,000 crowd inside Old Trafford were short-changed if they were expecting any sort of entertainment.
So while David Wagner quite sensibly felt it important to spare some of his best players before the play-offs when Huddersfield went to Birmingham, he might have got away with half a dozen or so but 10 was always going to attract attention. Birmingham managed to win 2-0, despite having a man sent off in the first half, Harry Redknapp ended up with three important points he might not otherwise have secured, and Nottingham Forest and Blackburn Rovers quite naturally complained that Town’s team selection had handed relegation rivals an unfair advantage.
The Football League has written to Huddersfield asking for an explanation, while making it clear that any punishment will be in the nature of a fine rather than a replay or restatement of the result. Birmingham keep the points, in other words, and while Redknapp’s side could still go down on the final day this weekend, Forest and Blackburn sit two points closer to the trapdoor.
It is an unsatisfactory situation, certainly, though some sympathy was possible with Dean Whitehead’s tweet, when the veteran midfielder observed that over 45 games Huddersfield had earned the right to name any team they liked once their play-off place was attained, while Forest and Blackburn only had themselves to blame if they were still in the mire with one match to go. Tough but fair.
The Championship is a notoriously long and hard grind, and going up via the play-offs is no easy task after such a demanding season. Wagner naturally wants to give himself and his side the best chance, and if he decides it is more important to have fresh, rested players than finish a place or two higher in the final table, who is to say he is wrong?
Were the promotion system simply a matter of finishing as high up the table as possible, as it used to be, there would be less excuse for picking one’s matches at the end, but the play-off routine is a mini-competition in its own right, a crisis built into the constitution, and if the EFL is going to ask its promotion hopefuls to jump through this final hoop it cannot really object to clubs making the necessary preparations.
Furthermore, Wagner has been rotating fairly heavily all season. Not to the extent of 10 changes, granted, but he has quite regularly been swapping out up to half a dozen. Most of the players involved at Birmingham had started the game against Manchester City in the FA Cup, when there was very little outcry about fielding a weakened team, mostly because Town managed to take their Premier League opponents to a replay. All of the starting lineup at Birmingham bar one had made 10 or more appearances this season, so what is a weakened team anyway? In the old days you had the first team and the stiffs, and everyone knew which was which, but at the highest levels football is much more of a squad game nowadays.
Look at Chelsea leaving out Eden Hazard and Diego Conte for an hour of their FA Cup semi-final against Spurs. Beforehand all the talk was of Antonio Conte disrespecting the game and the competition. Afterwards everyone was in agreement that it had been one of the best occasions Wembley has witnessed. That was because Chelsea’s squad is so strong and the overall quality still high even after significant withdrawals. The same does not apply all the way down the league – it certainly did not apply to Wolves eight years ago – though in Championship terms Huddersfield have been playing a squad system under Wagner. They have shown the ability to make changes without a discernible drop in quality.
All of which they will no doubt be pointing out to the Football League when they answer the charges made against them. They will probably be able to mount a stronger and more logical case than the authority, whose rules state simply that there is a requirement to play full-strength sides in all league matches, unless some satisfactory reason is given. Woolly, or what? Does involvement in forthcoming play-off contests count as a satisfactory reason, and if not why not? Check back over all the Championship fixtures for last weekend, or the weekend before, or the Premier League equivalents for that matter. Was everyone playing their strongest team?
Over the course of a season players are routinely rested, dropped, protected from injury or simply left out because a different system or formation is being tried. This is normal. No one hears any complaints about it. The notion of a full-strength side is normally for cup finals or other knockout rounds, major derbies or grudge matches against immediate rivals. A game between a side in fifth place and one in relegation trouble on the penultimate weekend of the season does not really come into that category. No one would have blamed Huddersfield for taking it easy, whatever selection Wagner came up with.
Whitehead is right: Huddersfield have worked hard enough all season to enjoy a little respite if they so wish – how many other teams are already “on the beach”? – and the matter would probably have gone unnoticed but for breaking the 10th commandment. Which is, simply, don’t change the whole team. It looks bad.
When you invite a trainer to offer an excuse for a horse, they generally do so with alacrity. So it was interesting that Charlie Appleby turned down the opportunity at Ascot yesterday after Blue Point got back in the winner’s enclosure for the first time since the Gimcrack. 
I asked him if, with the benefit of six months to reflect on it, he could offer any more insights into Blue Point’s third place in the Dewhurst. “He might just have met one or two too good,” was the response. 
The Dewhurst was won by Churchill, with his pacemaker hanging on for second place. Appleby predicted, correctly, that Churchill’s odds for Saturday’s 2,000 Guineas would shorten in the wake of Blue Point’s reappearance win. 
Churchill hasn’t run since but other Dewhurst runners have shown that form to be strong. Lancaster Bomber, the runner-up, was second again at the Breeders’ Cup. Thunder Snow, fourth, has won all three starts since, including the UAE Derby, and will have a crack at the Kentucky Derby on Saturday night. Rivet, fifth, won the Racing Post Trophy next time. 
Other Guineas contenders have pressed the case for themselves more recently than Churchill. But that piece of autumn form looks the gold standard at this stage.
Apprentice handicaps at Catterick are not usually as strong as the Dewhurst but one such race from last week seems to hold the answer to tonight’s closer at Musselburgh. Tanawar (8.40) got back to winning ways for the first time since 2015 and is unpenalised as he attempts to follow up. 
The main worry on these occasions is often whether the horse will be able to run to a similar level just a week later. In Tanawar’s case, we know that he can because he did that very thing in September 2015. Having won a Redcar apprentice handicap, he won unpenalised seven days later at Carlisle under Jimmy Sullivan, who has the ride again tonight. So this is a trick that Ruth Carr has turned before and I imagine she’ll be able to do so again, with her string in such fine form. Tanawar is 6-4. 
An hour earlier, Cosmic Tigress (7.40) appeals at 7-2. Two from two at Musselburgh, including a hurdle race, she scored at Wolves two runs ago and may not have liked the Fibresand when stuffed last time. Sebastian’s Wish is more obvious but his last-time win was more than three months ago and his stable seems out of sorts just now. 
Also a 7-2 shot is Pearly Prince (5.10) in the last at, ugh, Lingfield. Nothing went right for him when he was fifth there on his reappearance in March and now Silvestre De Sousa takes to the saddle. This is a maiden from a low-profile yard so maximum confidence is not warranted but he should go well. 
Redcar 2.00 Our Little Pony 2.30 Bella Alissa 3.00 Daira Bridge 3.30 Manatee Bay 4.00 Snookered 4.30 Gilgamesh 5.00 Rita’s Man Lingfield 2.10 Pillar Of Society 2.40 Flowers On Venus 3.10 Author’s Dream 3.40 Synodic 4.10 Endless Charm 4.40 Welsh Rose 5.10 Pearly Prince (nb) Towcester 2.20 Mister Showman 2.50 Sam Red 3.20 Shrubland 3.50 Adarenna 4.20 Kayla 4.50 Brown Bear 5.25 Rose Tree Sedgefield 5.30 Dubai Celebrity 6.00 Banny’s Lad 6.30 Mitcd 7.00 Gambol 7.30 I’m Still Waiting 8.00 Scorpion Star 8.30 Brecon Hill Musselburgh 6.10 Longroom 6.40 Benjamin Thomas 7.10 Vizier 7.40 Cosmic Tigress 8.10 Desert Ace 8.40 Tanawar (nap)


The Premier League season will be extended to a 39th game to accommodate a relegation play-off between Swansea City and Hull City, staged at a neutral venue, should they finish in joint-18th place, level on points, goal difference and goals scored.
Hull are 17th in the table, two points above Swansea, with three fixtures remaining for both clubs. Swansea’s goal difference is -29 compared with Hull’s -31, and the Welsh club have scored four more goals.
Should those records be identical come the end of the season, with a relegation place at stake, the Premier League would take the unprecedented step of organising a one-off match in line with the rules laid out in its annual handbook to decide which club retain their top-flight status.
Premier League rules state: “If at the end of the season either the league champions or the clubs to be relegated or the question of qualification for other competitions cannot be determined because two or more clubs are equal on points, goal difference and goals scored, the clubs concerned shall play off one or more deciding league matches on neutral grounds, the format, timing and venue of which shall be determined by the board.”
Paul Clement, the Swansea manager, admitted he was aware of the possibility of a play-off game but said that it is something he hopes to avoid. Asked whether he would take that scenario now, given Swansea are trailing Hull, he replied: “No. Although it’s two points, for me it’s much tighter than that because of what we’ve got [left to play], what they’ve got, all the different ramifications, especially when you involve Crystal Palace, and when you involve Tottenham and the Chelsea situation. I think it’s more even than the table shows, certainly from a mental point of view.”
Provision has been made for a play‑off game on two occasions in the past, albeit never before in relation to relegation, where the financial ramifications are so much greater. In 1996 tickets were printed for a play-off between Manchester United and Newcastle United to be held at Wembley in what would have been a title decider had they finished level. Manchester United ended up winning the league by four points.
Discussions were also held with Arsenal and Chelsea on the eve of the final round of fixtures of the 2012-13 season, when there was a possibility of the two clubs finishing the season tied for third place – automatic Champions League qualification was the prize – and unable to be separated on points, goal difference and goals scored. On that occasion Chelsea finished two points ahead of Arsenal.
It is understood the Premier League has not yet taken the step of consulting Swansea or Hull over the prospect of a play-off match, though the possibility of a 39th game has been considered by senior club staff for a little while.
Clement, meanwhile, has expressed his surprise that Mike Riley, the head of Professional Game Match Officials Limited, made no attempt to get in touch with him in the wake of Neil Swarbrick’s blunder at Manchester United on Sunday, when the referee awarded a penalty against Swansea that should never have been given after Marcus Rashford dived. “I chose not to put any call into the FA on this occasion,” Swansea’s manager said. “I felt that I had made my point very clearly in the media afterwards. But I have had no communication at all from anyone. The delegates’ report you get, but I’ve not heard anything from Mike Riley about that situation. It surprised me because of the nature of it and the position that we are in. I thought there might have been some communication.”
Swansea have been on the wrong end of several poor refereeing decisions in the last few months. Swarbrick denied Swansea what looked to be a clear penalty at Chelsea, Anthony Taylor erroneously awarded Burnley a spot-kick in March and Clement maintains that Mike Dean unfairly penalised Swansea prior to Manchester City scoring a late winner in February.
“We’ve had our fair share and they’ve all potentially cost us,” Clement said. “If we are given a penalty at Chelsea and score it is 2-1, though we did lose to a better team. But it could have been different against Man United and I am sure we would have got a point against Man City if that had been dealt with correctly. I can’t blame Neil Swarbrick for the decision [on Sunday], only for giving it if there was doubt, which I feel there was.”
Barcelona beckons as Formula One prepares to begin the European season proper, with the teams having 10 days to reflect on the four opening races and prepare for the upgrades that will be unveiled in Spain. The new regulations have thrown up a tense and gripping, rather than spectacular, prologue and the racing has been better than many feared, while there is an absolutely cracking battle at the front in prospect. Time then, to consider where the leading drivers and their teams stand before returning to the fray at the Circuit de Catalunya.
Ferrari’s resurgence has proved the perfect fillip for F1 and Sebastian Vettel. The German has been in fine fettle and it is not just because he has the championship lead. Vettel is more relaxed and happier than he has been since joining the team in 2015. Last season’s frustration and his sometimes fractious relationship with Ferrari has gone and his driving reflects this. He has huge confidence in the car and in a team that is now making the right calls from the pit wall. Two wins from four put him on the front foot going into Europe.
His main rival remains Lewis Hamilton, who has had a similarly strong opening but with some concerns that he will hope are being addressed. The three-time world champion trails Vettel by 13 points, with one win in Shanghai. A poor race in Russia, off the pace all weekend, does not reflect a solid campaign. In Australia Ferrari had the better strategy call and similarly in Bahrain, where it was compounded by Hamilton’s pit-lane-entry mistake.
What he needs is to be as at ease with his ride as Vettel. He has struggled to put the tyres in the right window and is working them too hard in the process. He is still buoyant, confident and genuinely enjoying the scrap, but narrowing the gap on the German will be paramount.
Hamilton’s team-mate, Valtteri Bottas, after his first F1 win in Sochi, believes he can repeat the feat and put himself in the title mix. Certainly, he has already crammed a huge amount into the season. A solid third in Australia was followed by the unforced error in China, spinning behind the safety car. He was redeemed by his first pole in Bahrain and in turn his first mechanical problem for Mercedes that ultimately led to him being the first to succumb to team orders.
The subsequent win pretty much made a full house, four seasons in four races that will stand him in good stead, but the Finn needs to secure another win quickly to be a realistic threat.
The fourth main protagonist, Kimi Raikkonen, remains an outlier. Having started slowly he produced his best performance in Russia with second on the grid and third in the race. He has struggled with the front end of the Ferrari and in a car that is proving highly competitive he should have been more threatening. Sochi gives grounds for optimism but for the moment it looks likely that his role will be taking points off Mercedes and Hamilton.
The relative strengths and weaknesses of their rides have now become clearer and while the development battle will begin in earnest in Spain, patterns are emerging. Ferrari are on the front foot. The SF70H has superb balance, is strong through corners, runs well in turbulent air and has a wide operating window for its tyres. The latter factor is of the greatest importance, as Sam Collins, a motor racing engineer and the deputy editor of Racecar Engineering magazine, confirms. “The real key is that they built a car that works throughout the tyre range,” he says. “A really versatile machine, the big advantage is that wide operating window, there is no one thing they have done, it’s the whole concept.”
Mercedes, in contrast, have a car with a narrower operating window and one that is not nearly as comfortable in dirty air. It has been designed to run at the head of the field and for pace – it is undoubtedly fast – but at a cost. “They designed a car to run in clean air, out at the front,” Collins says. “But it has a very narrow operating window, when it gets into that window I believe it is a quicker than Ferrari but it is too easy for it to drop out of that and then the Ferrari is all over it.”
The final major player has disappointed. Red Bull are unexpectedly off the pace. The car has lacked downforce and while a whole new machine is promised for Spain, the step up they require is enormous and there is no clear indication where it is coming from. “The Red Bull chassis has looked a bit unfinished since it was launched,” says Collins. “I don’t know what it is that is missing but when I look at it I don’t really understand the direction they have taken.”
In terms of making a radical change it seems unlikely. “There is a concept of a car and you can’t just click your fingers and change that,” he says. “You still have the same gearbox, monocoque and so on, parts you can’t just switch. Red Bull have the resources to do it but I don’t think they are going to. I think it means new bodywork, which may or may not work.”
We shall have the answers in Barcelona, where battle is rejoined and an equally absorbing European season is on the cards.
For once, the European club campaigns are aligned. The regular league seasons in England, France and the Pro12 finish this weekend, although if Premiership Rugby has its way from 2019-20 no player will be able to contemplate going on holiday until July.
The three leagues all have a play-off system, with the champions determined by how they perform over two weeks rather than eight months. Under the old system, the Premiership would have been a three-way tussle this weekend with Wasps and Exeter on 79 points and Saracens, who are at the Ricoh Arena on Saturday, two points behind in third.
In the Pro12, the leaders, Leinster, are three points ahead of Munster with both assured of a home draw, while in France La Rochelle lead Clermont Auvergne, their opponents on Saturday, by 10 points. Clermont, fighting on two fronts like Saracens having made the European Champions Cup final, have paced themselves but need to win to ensure they sit out the first round of the play-offs. The system is more drawn out in France, with six teams involved rather than four.
When the Premiership adopted the play-offs in 2002-03, the main reason given was that with clubs shorn of their international players for three months of the season – more than one-third of the league campaign – the system was fairer on those who supplied a large number of players to England and other Test sides than first-past-the-post.
Not that the champions will revert to whoever leads the table at the end of the final round of matches from 2019-20 if the club season expands to 10 months, with the international weekends to be largely filled with Anglo-Welsh-South Africa Cup matches. It would allow clubs to be at full throttle for virtually the entire Premiership campaign, but the play-offs are lucrative and Twickenham sells out for the final.
When Premiership Rugby introduced the system, it was not rapturously received. Wasps won the first three finals and beat the team that had finished top each time, appreciating that consistency was less important than peaking at the right time. Saracens will not finish top if Exeter win at Gloucester on Saturday, but would they have lost at Gloucester and Worcester, matches played during the Six Nations, had they been at full strength?
A team that finished fourth in the Premiership has only once won the final, Saracens in 2014-15, although Northampton and Leicester had previously made it to Twickenham. The Tigers currently lie in fourth place, four points ahead of Bath, with a trip to Worcester on Saturday to face opponents they have lost to only twice in the top flight. They are 17 points behind Wasps and Exeter having mustered two bonus points in their matches against the top three this season, but they could be crowned champions. Unlikely, perhaps, but they are play-off perennials.
Stade Français are sixth in the Top 14 having won one away match in the league, at relegated Bayonne, and if they maintain that position in a madly congested table in which 10 points separate Castres in fifth and Toulouse, the mighty fallers, in 12th, they will have a chance to win the league.
In the Pro 12, Ospreys in fourth are 15 points behind Leinster and in all three leagues there is a gap between teams in the play-offs, never mind the rest. The question of whether the winners of a league should be decided by a knockout tournament, marathon runners having to turn into sprinters, will long be debated, but it will be decided by pay rather than philosophy.
Which is why the argument about losing international players for a significant chunk of the season has never been applied to the other end of the table in the Premiership. Had Worcester finished bottom, they could have cited the loss of their centre Ben Te’o to England in the autumn and for the Six Nations, but how commercial would a play-off between the bottom four sides be?
Should a team that finishes fourth have the potential reward of a league trophy? If Premiership Rugby succeeds in its bid to have a 10-month season, with international tours to follow, and clubs are able to pick from strength for all, or virtually all, of the league season, what merit would there be in a play-off system other than to plunder backers and spectators?
Why not, instead, have a play-off between the top two teams in the Premiership and the Pro12, first against second with the respective champions enjoying home advantage in the semi-final? This season, it would mean two from Wasps, Exeter and Saracens against Leinster and Munster, and while there would be a chance of a rerun of a Champions Cup final, that prospect exists now: five of the European Cup finals have been all-French affairs, with the Premiership supplying the 2007 finalists and the Pro12 the last two in 2012.
It would be something welcomed more by the Pro12, which introduced the play-offs in 2009-10 and has yet to establish its final as a focal point of the calendar in the way the Premiership has, but it would provide a link between the two leagues that supply the Lions with players.
There would be a complication if the Premiership ends a month later than the Pro 12, which has no plans to expand its season from 2019-20, but if English clubs are talking about including South African Currie Cup teams in the Anglo-Welsh Cup, which would hold the appeal of a party political broadcast, why not look closer to home and let first equal champions?
• This is an extract taken from the Breakdown, the Guardian’s weekly rugby union email. To subscribe, just visit this page and follow the instructions.
1) Roma legend Francesco Totti finally confirmed his retirement this week at the age of 40 and after 600 appearances for the Serie A club. Here’s a look back at the 24 years between his first and last games for Roma. While you can feast on his best goals here. He did it for Italy on plenty of occasions, too, notably at Euro 2000 and in moments at the triumphant 2006 World Cup. He also featured in his share of naff adverts as well, mind.
2) The first grand tour of the cycling season, the Giro d’Italia, gets under way this weekend and there are plenty of big names hoping to be crowned the winner in Milan on 28 May. The Giro has an impressive hall of fame featuring five-times winner of the event Eddy Merckx, Alberto Contador – who triumphed in 2008 and 2015 – the 2013 and 2016 winner Vincenzo Nibali, and Ireland’s Stephen Roche, who triumphed in 1987, falling out with his team spectacularly en route to the triple crown.
3) The news that all pre-2005 world and European athletics records are to be erased has stunned those who set legitimate bests back in the day. So here’s a chance to relive some: Colin Jackson storms through to set the 110m hurdles world record in Stuttgart in 1993, the jumping Geordie Jonathan Edwards sets two world triple jump records in a row two years later in Gothenburg, a collection of Hicham El Guerrouj’s bests in the 1500m, mile and 2,000m and Paula Radcliffe’s marathon effort of 2003. The great Kenenisa Bekele’s 2004 5,000m world record run also misses the 2005 cut-off after this week’s decision.
4) Continuing the goalscoring goalkeepers theme of last week’s blog, how about this from Oscar Pérez? It’s a towering header all right but what it makes it so good – and so rare – is the fact that he’s 44 and scores the goal in the 93rd minute against the club from whom he is on loan where he is still held up as a legend by fans. Does he refuse to celebrate? Course not. He explodes like a firework. Brilliant. Also spilling over in stoppage time: the Russian Cup final between Ural Yekaterinburg and Lokomotiv Moscow, where a late brawl led to four finely flourished red cards.
5) After six years of toil in League One, Sheffield United finally have a promotion, and a League One trophy, to celebrate. The emotion all rather got to their manager, Chris Wilder, who nearly tossed it over the top of their open-top bus during their victory parade after taking a tumble. Which brought to mind Real Madrid’s Copa del Rey mishap in 2011.
6) Talking of records, who hasn’t tried to impress others with wheelies in moments of youthful daring? Well none has gone so far as the Japanese stunt rider Masaru Abe, who set a new world record for covering 500.5322km with front wheel aloft in more than 13 hours, five hours longer than his previous record.
1) Scurlogue Champ: amazing dog, who seemed to do it on purpose.
2) And try this for a greyhound comeback.
3) Taylor Garner takes a hanger for North Melbourne against Fremantle in the AFL.
4) Juan Román Riquelme: geometry and artistry.
5) Last week featured some woof! from Ousmane Dembélé – turns out his whole game was pretty good.
Spotters’ badges: GrahamClayton, zombiedeadhead, brilliantusernamepun, whobroughtoranges
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Do subscribe, if you fancy
Manchester United have managed only two victories in 22 previous away matches against Spanish opposition. This is the statistic José Mourinho’s team have to improve in their Europa League semi-final first leg against Celta Vigo on Thursday night to be in pole position for the return at Old Trafford next week.
The poor run stretches back 60 years to a 5-3 defeat at Athletic Bilbao, with those two wins not arriving until this millennium. In April 2002 United defeated Deportivo La Coruña, Vigo’s traditional rivals, in a Champions League quarter‑final courtesy of goals from David Beckham and Ruud van Nistelrooy. In September 2010 Valencia were defeated 1-0 at the Mestalla due to a Javier Hernández goal in a group meeting.
Given this record, and how cagey European semi-finals often are, a draw, particularly a scoring one, would not be a disastrous result. But Mourinho has other ideas. “We’ve struggled in the Premier League, it’s been complicated, but we are here to win,” he said. “It’s the same for both of us. When somebody arrives in the semi-final they want to be in the final. The Europa League is a long competition. To be in the final the team has to play the group stages, three knockout phases, has to travel a lot so when you arrive in the semi‑final you want to be in the final. Celta wants [to] and we want [to].”
Celta have lost all three matches since eliminating Genk 4-3 on aggregate in the quarter-finals. But this was partly due to Eduardo Berizzo, their Argentinian head coach, resting players before a historic tie for the club: their first European semi-final.
This has not escaped Mourinho, who also pointed to their safe 11th position in La Liga. “Celta is here [for a reason]. Very good balance, almost every team in the knockout phases were teams of the same level. It says everything they are in the semi-final,” he said. “Because of their situation in La Liga, their situation is comfortable, they manage to think just about the Europa League, to rest players, to be at the maximum of their condition, so it’s a difficult match for us.
“I don’t think they’re going to come and enjoy the match. If that was the case they wouldn’t have played with the second team against Bilbao and lost 3-0 [on Sunday]. They have lost two matches in La Liga playing with their second teams so it’s very clear they have come to win.”
When United’s record against Spanish opposition was put to Berizzo, he said: “We hope first of all the statistics stay at just two wins away from England. How do you beat Manchester United? By being faithful to who we are. I think this team has an identity and they believe in this identity. A lot of pressing, a lot of possession. Believing in a sustained attack. The only way is to be faithful to our identity.”
Vigo’s main threat is the rejuvenated Iago Aspas, the forward who failed to score a Premier League goal for Liverpool in two years at the club. The 29-year-old has 25 goals in all competitions, form that led to a debut for Spain in the winter. Aspas is part of a frontline that also includes John Guidetti and Pione Sisto, who last year scored against United for Midtjylland in the home and away legs of the last-32 stage.
Of Aspas’s upward trajectory, which comes in the Galician’s second spell at Vigo, Berizzo said: “More than any influence from myself, Iago has experienced a personal maturity that has been more than the influence of a coach like me. He’s been very comfortable since he came [back here]. He’s matured a lot. He’s assumed leadership of the side. Playing on the right has liberated him and he’s able to combine better with the centre-forwards”
Mourinho again complained about the nine matches United played in April but Celta had the same number. United’s injury crisis has eased as the centre-backs Phil Jones, Chris Smalling and Eric Bailly are all fit again. With United’s Champions League hopes via a Premier League place now out of their hands, qualification by winning the second-tier European club completion is the best hope.
Mourinho said: “In relation to the Europa League it’s very important Jones and Smalling come on time. We have two matches in one week against Celta, important to have everyone back. In relation to again being available for the Premier League it’s too late because in the past month we played nine matches, seven of them in the Premier League and we had too many problems, too many players [injured]. The perspective is different because the Europa League becomes even more important and it’s good to have three players back that give us more options.”
Afouteza is the Spanish word that can be seen all over Vigo before the first leg. It translates as a “willingness of spirit to face troubles” and possessing the “strength of character” to do so. The hope is that it will inspire a famous victory over United in the team’s first meeting with them.
Yet in an uneven campaign United will also need to find something special to claim a third victory on Spanish soil in what is their 58th game this season.
Berizzo added: “More than feared, Manchester United are to be respected. We have played against great teams and United is definitely one of them, historically, very clearly. But we will win with conviction, identity and with heart, at least we hope to.”
Back in late November and exactly five months after he had swapped Catalonia for Turin, Dani Alves found himself lying on the turf, clutching an ankle and fearing the worst. Juventus were 3-0 down to Genoa and desperate to get his side back into the contest, Alves charged into Lucas Ocampos with the aim of winning possession, but as he did so the Brazilian full-back’s left leg was kicked from behind by the Argentinian winger. It was an accidental collision but a serious one for Alves, so much so that he had to be taken off on a stretcher.
Pain was etched across his face and following Juventus’s announcement shortly after the final whistle had blown at the Stadio Luigi Ferraris that he had suffered a broken leg – a fracture in the left fibula, to be precise – a reasonable assumption doing the rounds was that the 33-year-old would never play again. A stellar career in new surroundings had been brought to an unfortunate halt.
But the injury was not as grave as first suspected and Alves was able to return to action inside three months. And three months on from that, he arguably delivered his best performance for the Bianconeri on Wednesday and one that as part of a collective effort showed that, sometimes, there really is no substitute for experience.
Monaco versus Juventus was billed as a clash between a great attack built on youthful vigour and a great defence carved out of grizzled knowhow. To some extent this semi-final first-leg played out that way as the visitors snuffed out the danger of those in red and white, most notably Kylian Mbappé, the 18-year-old striker who has taken Europe by storm and before kick-off was the reported subject of a £72m bid by Manchester United.
It was possible to see the appeal on a spring evening on the Côte d’Azur as the player tested Juventus with his intoxicating mix of power, pace, movement and composure but ultimately he could not breach the continent’s most stingy rearguard, marshalled supremely as ever by their 39-year-old captain and inspiration, Gianluigi Buffon.
It was textbook stuff and provided the platform for what Juventus did at the other end of the pitch as Gonzalo Higuaín scored his first and second goals in the knockout stages of the Champions League and Alves created both in a manner that proved he is far from finished.
His first assist came as part of a wonderful back-to-front team move. Juventus’s No23 was involved twice, playing a pass to Higuaín by the halfway line before charging forward and, having regained possession, backheeling the ball into the striker’s path to leave him with the simplest of finishes.
The touch was the sumptuous end to a sumptuous passage of play and there was more to come from Alves on 59 minutes after Paulo Dybala stole possession from Tiemoué Bakayoko and set him free down the right touchline. After a glance and a touch, Alves delivered a perfectly weighted chipped cross towards the back post and into the path of Higuaín, who duly sent a first-time shot through the legs of Danijel Subasic.
Alves now has four assists in this season’s Champions League, bettered only by Cristiano Ronaldo (five), Ousmane Dembélé (six) and Neymar (eight), and in general, Wednesday’s showing was very much the Alves of old, the man who provided Barcelona with a consistently potent attacking threat during their most golden years. It was fair to wonder if the powers-that-be at the Camp Nou now regret allowing him to leave on a free transfer last summer.
Alves had 72 touches of the ball against Monaco, utterly dominating their left-back Djibril Sidibé – who, in fairness, was playing only because of an injury to Benjamin Mendy – and showing a level of defensive awareness that arguably has come about through being part of a side that believe the concession of a goal is an insult to their professional pride.
In that regard this was another occasion when Juventus’s entire rearguard shone, while ahead of them Dybala, Miralem Pjanić, Claudio Marchisio and Higuaín also caught the eye. The visitors fully deserved their 2-0 victory, a staggering sixth consecutive Champions League clean sheet, and, before next week’s return in Turin, look on course to reach a second final in three years.
For Alves an appearance at Cardiff’s Millennium Stadium on 3 June would provide him with a chance to collect a fourth winners’ medal following his triumphs with Barcelona in 2009, 2011 and 2015. It would be some achievement and some ending to a season marked by a serious setback but which has ultimately shown that Alves has staying power to go with all that talent.
Antoine Griezmann has agreed a £280,000-a-week deal to play for Manchester United, according to one tabloid who says the Premier League side are ready to meet the £85m buy-out clause required to prise him away from Atlético Madrid. The French striker has been a long-time target of United, despite his well documented reservations about the inclement weather in the north-west of England. It is has also been suggested that his Basque wife, Erika, is not particularly keen on leaving Spain, but may change her mind upon being made aware of Manchester’s myriad tourist attractions, including the Museum of Science and Industry, Gorton Monastery and Chorlton Water Park.
Antonio Conte is planning on introducing a few new faces to the Chelsea dressing room, and one of them may bear a striking resemblance to the visage of West Ham’s Michail Antonio. Should the West Ham midfielder pitch up at Stamford Bridge, it may well signal the end of Willian’s time as a Chelsea player. Kurt Zouma is also expected to head for the exit door and go on loan somewhere to free up a dressing-room peg for Virgil van Dijk. The Southampton central defender has an ardent admirer in Conte, who may have to shell out £50m to secure the Dutchman’s services. Southampton may also have to plan for life without full-back Ryan Bertrand, who has itchy feet and is also wanted by Chelsea. And Liverpool.
Kelechi Iheanacho could be off to Hoffenheim, now that Manchester City have given the Bundesliga club permission to approach their young striker with a view to a loan move. Meanwhile in Scotland, the goalscoring exploits of Celtic striker Moussa Dembélé have been attracting admiring glances from around Europe. Italian side Juventus are the latest club to be linked with the Frenchman, whose 4,529 goals this season helped his side wrap up the Scottish Premiership in September. Chelsea are also interested in signing Dembélé, who is currently sidelined with injury, but had an offer rebuffed in January.
The Mirror says the agent of Alexis Sánchez has held talks with Bayern Munich with a view to breaking his client out of the Emirates, while Arsenal fans will be thrilled to hear that Arsène Wenger came this close to signing Kylian Mbappé, before the teenage striking sensation decided to stay with Monaco. More recently, Manchester United have had a £72m bid for Mbappé turned down by the Ligue 1 leaders, a state of affairs that has been covered elsewhere by the Guardian’s man on the Manchester beat.
West Ham have offered Napoli €30m for Dries Mertens and have been told he isn’t for sale, while Torino striker Andrea Belotti is likely to be the subject of a massive summer bid from Manchester United. Barcelona’s failure to adequately replace Dani Alves means that Chelsea’s César Azpilicueta, Bayer Leverkusen’s Benjamin Henrichs and Arsenal’s Hector Bellerin are all persons of interest in the Camp Nou HR department. Arsenal right-back Nacho Monreal is also a wanted man, with Roma believed to be offering him sanctuary in the Italian capital.
Let’s say you were asked to participate in a Twitter poll and, should you win said poll, you would have the chance to play in the Super Bowl or the World Series?
For any sports fan, this would seem like a no-brainer and an opportunity of a lifetime.
But now imagine professional athletes having to participate in a Twitter poll in order to earn a place into an event? Initially, it might seem a little silly to ask people who have devoted their lives to a pursuit to subject themselves to what is a essentially a popularity contest.
Lo and behold, though, the LPGA has traded its credibility for publicity, and thus lowered itself, by asking four professional golfers to participate in a Twitter vote for a sponsor’s exemption in the ShopRite Classic taking place next month in Atlantic City.
The four women? Golf Channel’s Blair O’Neal, India’s Sharmila Nicollet, Scotland’s Carly Booth and Bolivia’s Susan Benavides.
Of these players, Booth is the most accomplished with two wins on the Ladies European Tour. O’Neal won Golf Channel’s Big Break series and has capitalized on her popularity in the golf world as a personality, often playing on sponsor exemptions and recently making the cut in the LET Dubai tournament in December 2016. Nicollet is the second Indian-born golfer to earn status on the LET and has won 11 professional events on Women’s Golf Association of India circuit. Benavides plays on the LPGA developmental circuit, the Symetra Tour, and is the best golfer to hail from Bolivia.
These women were selected for the poll by MVP Index, a sports social media tracking firm co-founded by Jordan Spieth’s father, Shawn Spieth.
Sponsor exemptions are always tricky business. Typically, depending on the event, the main sponsor of a golf tournament will be allotted two exemptions to award to whomever they please, be it an amateur or professional. Not everyone will agree with the exemptions given, but often that’s the point: to stir controversy and interest in an event because of the polarizing figure.
This is why the PGA Tour events continued to invite the fallen star of golf, John Daly, to play in events, despite his often withdrawing halfway through the tournament or shooting embarrassingly high scores.
One could certainly make the argument that more deserving players could have been selected as candidates for the exemption. When I examined this poll, I did not see players who were undeserving, though. What I saw was a completely unlevel playing field in terms of how many Twitter followers each of the ladies have: Nicollet with roughly 357,000, O’Neal with 77,000 followers, Booth with 35,000 and Benavides with 7,000.
In addition to this poll, I saw a shameless attempt by the sponsors of the tournament to capitalize on the social media presence of female golfers without any regard to the false hope they’re setting in place for those with a smaller following.
Take Benavides for example, who initially wrote in for a sponsor exemption.
“I would have much rather just be chosen that way,” she said in an interview with the Guardian. “When I was told about the Twitter poll, I knew I was the one with the smallest following, and Twitter is not big at all in my country so I knew it was going to be hard. But, hey, it’s a chance to play in an LPGA event. How or why would I say no?”
ShopRite Classic executive director Tim Erensen went to MVP Index in search of female golfers on social media who have a strong social media presence in order to conduct the poll.
He described this as “thinking out of the box” to the Golf Channel, and said that this poll could help generate new people to be interested in the game of golf. “For the naysayers, if we get 10 million new eyeballs exposed to our event, that’s not only good for the winner of our contest, but for the 143 other players in the field.”
But let’s cut through the baloney. None of the ladies in the poll struggle in the looks department. They’re all uniquely beautiful, and all have a strong fan male base.
I urge you to go through the accounts of these of these women and see the nice compliments male followers pay them:
“Sexy figure.”
“Wow, uber sexy! You’re so so hot!”
“Fantastic sexiness.”
“Cute hiney.”
“Lovely curves.”
“Nice pic and boobs.”
“Damn what a sexy body.”
If Erensen were honest, he would say, “The ShopRite tournament execs decided we would use these women as clickbait.”
Because, let’s get even more honest, with the combined social media followings of all these golfers, their followings don’t even total 500,000 followers. So when Erensen says they could get 10 million new eyeballs exposed to the event, he’s smoking some really good stuff I want to get a hold of.
This was so transparent in its laziness of an attempt to truly engage potential new fans. You know what makes athletes interesting? Their stories. And you know what the LPGA needs? A more diverse pool of fans, and in order to do that they need to learn to engage with other people outside of pervy old men who stalk the accounts of different female golfers.
Secondly, this is just another sad example of women having to sell themselves short in sports in the hopes that they receive what could be a life-changing opportunity.
Sponsor exemptions can alter a player’s path. Should the exemptee win the tournament, it would give them automatic full status on the LPGA for the following year, along with more sponsor exemptions for the rest of the year. For this tournament in particular, it would also earn a spot in the four majors left for the season on the LPGA.
While it is extremely rare for a sponsor exemptee to win a tournament, it has happened in the past. On the PGA Tour, Jordan Spieth won John Deere Classic on a sponsor exemption. Two years later he went on to win the Masters and the US Open.
It’s gimmicky, erring on the side of tacky, and despite what Erensen believes is creative thinking, it’s just a new way of exploiting women.
As someone pointed out to me on social media though, “Unfortunately, women’s sport is a tough sell in a saturated market. Anya, you have the right to be critical but at least the company is doing SOMETHING for women’s golf. They could easily be throwing it at any number of male sports.”
My response to that: “Women’s sports is a tough sale because even sponsors treat the women like objects to be voted. The notion that just because they’re doing SOMETHING is not a good enough reason to be lazy in their promotion of the tournament.”
As long as women are treated like props in the sporting world to be ogled and used as clickbait, they will never gain a true fanbase or find equal footing with the men.
Three Melbourne councils representing more than a million people in football’s Victorian heartland are moving forward with a bid for an A-League side. Greater Dandenong City, Casey City and Cardinia Shire councils in Melbourne’s south-east signed an agreement on Wednesday to underpin the effort.
They have enlisted Socceroo stalwart Vince Grella to assist their campaign as the bid ambassador. The hard-nosed midfielder spent a decade with Italian clubs Empoli, Parma and Torino before switching to English Premier League club Blackburn Rovers.
Grella is also a proud Dandenong boy and delighted to lend support to the bid. “I was born around the corner, grew up kicking a ball in the park and have an unbelievable passion for Australian football,” he told AAP. “I would have loved to have ended my career where I started. To think there could possibly be a club here, it excites me.”
Grella believes the side could become a Melbourne equivalent to the Western Sydney Wanderers, attracting similarly fervent support. “I think there’s a lot of similarities between the two areas,” he said. “It’s a working class area where people love sport and really get behind sport.”
The bid will also include a W-League and National Youth League side. 
There is plenty of competition to join the league, with a wave of expansion interest across the country. In Victoria, that includes former NSL powerhouse South Melbourne and a Geelong bid. But at this stage, there’s no opening.
After initially raising expansion prospects, in February FFA kiboshed hopes of growing the league in the short-term by prioritising reform of the league’s operating model.
Grella – who now works as a player agent – says expansion is needed. “Part of my new job is understanding how football is run overseas and in certain countries. With our setup it will be difficult to grow the game without adding teams,” he said. “In the first years you have to consolidate. We’ve done that and now we need to expand.”
The south-eastern Melbourne bid hopes they can win support owing to the region’s rich football heritage. Current Socceroos Bailey Wright and Jackson Irvine are among at least a dozen estimated past and present national team players from the south-eastern corridor of Melbourne. The Councils believe they host 71 football clubs and more than 11,500 registered players.
Melbourne Victory’s remarks about Allianz Stadium’s poor pitch could be a sign they’re already doling out excuses for an A-League grand-final loss, former Sydney FC captain Mark Rudan suggests.
The substandard surface has stolen most of the headlines ahead of Sunday’s showpiece.
Such is the concern about the state of the pitch, Football Federation Australia made an unsuccessful last-ditch attempt to get Saturday night’s Super Rugby game moved.
It’s not been lost on Victory coach Kevin Muscat, who said it was “a shame” the pitch would be in such a poor state but declared they’d just have to beat premiers Sydney on whatever surface was available.
That perspective has been repeated by some of Muscat’s players in recent days, in what Sydney United head coach and Fox Sports pundit Rudan believes might be a sign they’re on the mental back foot.
“There’s been a lot of talk about the pitch from Melbourne Victory players,” Rudan said at Sydney’s grand final luncheon.
“I look at that in a different way, it’s almost as though players are giving out excuses already.
“We’re still days away from the grand final, I’m not sure if Musky is going to put a lid on those comments, but Musky himself has come out and spoken about the pitch.
“It’s one thing I’ve never heard from Sydney FC, they’ve never really gone out and complained about the pitch and they’ve had to play on that pitch themselves.
“That’s an interesting one from a psychological perspective.”
Sky Blues coach Graham Arnold has always publicly insisted the poor home deck actually suits his record-breaking side’s superior technical ability, and felt there could be a tendency to “read too much into it”.
“I look at Suncorp and other a lot of other pitches, and it’s the way it is,” Arnold said. “We’ve got players technically good enough to deal with whatever and legs that can deal with whatever.
“All I know is that when you walk down the ramp at Allianz it’s the best stadium in Australia to play football on.
“I know I’ve got 22 players who love playing there. This year we’ve had 14 games there, won 11 and only conceded three goals. That’s how much belief the boys will take into the game.”
Fernando Alonso got his first real lesson in IndyCar racing on Wednesday.
It’s not easy, even for a two-times Formula One champion.
On a cool, brisk day that saw racing conditions worsen by the hour, the 35-year-old Spaniard turned his first laps on an oval, passed his rookie test and is now eligible to try to qualify for the Indianapolis 500 later this month. He got Michael Andretti’s No29 car up to 222.548 mph and avoided crashing when two birds flew into his car as he turned a lap clocked at a tick less than 220mph.
Welcome to Indy, champ.
“It’s very sensitive, this place, to wind and to climatic conditions,” Alonso said. “Everyone was telling me this before coming here, but yeah, we confirm it today. We need to be always ready to set up the car for whatever conditions we have there.”
Alonso’s decision to race in one of the crown jewel races in North America has sent a wave of anticipation through IndyCar. Dozens of reporters covered his solo test, and speedway President Doug Boles said ticket sales are picking up. Race organizers expect the crowd to be the second-most attended 500 in 20 years, trailing only last year’s sellout for the 100th running of the 500.
Alonso isn’t coming to Indy to sell tickets; he intends to add the second leg of auto racing’s triple crown to his resume. Alonso already has won at Monaco. He has not won at Le Mans.
Alonso became one of the world’s greatest drivers by making right and left turns on road and street courses, running occasionally in the rain and usually without concrete walls surrounding him.
At the historic 2.5-mile Brickyard, Alonso must contend with unforgiving walls, regular weather delays and four corners that seem to change like the wind. Alonso found out the hard way when the blue sky turned gray, temperatures dropped into the low 50s Fahrenheit and the gusts picked up.
He even acknowledged that going into the first turn on his first full lap, he thought was flat out – before realizing his right foot wasn’t completely down.
Still, Alonso aced his first big test.
He only needed 50 laps to pass all three phases of his rookie test, setting him up to compete in the 28 May showcase race. He topped the 219mph threshold in less than three hours and was even better in the afternoon when he drove another 60 laps.
Rain wiped out the final two hours of practice time but car owner Michael Andretti said the team couldn’t have done much more anyway because Alonso was out of tires.
The only other glitch came when two birds flew right into Alonso’s path. They vanished in a puff and crew members eventually cleaned the remains off the car.
Fernando Alonso's first Indy test went swimmingly today. Well maybe not for the two birds who flew into his path when he was going 220mph. pic.twitter.com/u4Aa5MXcl0
“I saw one bird approaching Turn 3 in the penultimate run, and I just lift off and avoid the bird. Probably I will not do that on the race day,” he said. “But today I save one life there. I didn’t manage to save the other two.”
Alonso will be the sixth entry in the Indy 500 for Andretti Autosport, a team that includes Alexander Rossi.
Last year, the ex-Formula One driver won in his first 500 start. Now the 25-year-old American finds himself in the somewhat awkward position of trying to help the 35-year-old Alonso, who is sixth on F1’s career victory list with 32.
“I can’t add any more than Ryan (Hunter-Reay) or Marco (Andretti),” Rossi said, referring to his teammates. “If he asked (for advice), I think I’ll point him in their direction.”
Andretti and his father, Mario, both expect Alonso to be a contender and the early results look promising.
“It was great. He did perfect. Now we can go play a little bit,” Michael Andretti said after the morning session. “He’s the real deal. I think he’s going to have a really good month.”
The other Andretti, Michael’s son, Marco, also pitched in by setting up the car for Alonso, who strapped himself into the bright orange Honda and quickly got up to speed.
Alonso, who drives for struggling McLaren in F1, now heads home with plenty of knowledge, data to study and time to come up with a plan that will help him get ready for a new set of challenges when practice opens May 15. Among other things, he will be on the track with other cars soon enough.
“It felt new to me and it felt a little bit, yeah, strange, driving anticlockwise and at those speeds,” Alonso said. “It’s been a very helpful day in terms of knowing all these different worlds, these different techniques on driving and get up to speed a little bit. Still a long way to go, but I think I’m happy with this first step.”
Manchester United have had a £72m bid for Kylian Mbappé turned down, with Monaco wanting a world-record £100m for the 18-year-old forward.
José Mourinho has made Mbappé one of his main targets for the summer but the Ligue 1 club want to keep the teenage striker for at least another season.
United, who are also interested in Atlético Madrid’s Antoine Griezmann, have struggled in front of goal this season, although Zlatan Ibrahimovic is their top scorer with 28 goals in all competitions. The Swede, who sustained a long‑term knee injury last month, has scored 17 times in the league, with Juan Mata the second highest scorer with six.
Monaco have told United they will not sell Mbappé for less than £100m and it is highly unlikely he will leave this summer. Monaco hope his value will soar and they will be able to sell him for around £125m in 2018. The player’s preferred destination would be Real Madrid but they have yet to make an inquiry for the player who has impressed in Europe this season.
United and Mourinho are also working on other deals and have made an inquiry with Roma about Radja Nainggolan but the midfielder, who turned down Chelsea last summer, is keen to stay. Mourinho’s shortlist of signings also includes the Real Madrid midfielder Toni Kroos and Mbappé’s Monaco team-mates Fabinho and Tiemoué Bakayoko, although Chelsea are in pole position to sign the latter.
United are in danger of missing out on a top-four place in the league but are in the semi-finals of the Europa League, where they face Celta Vigo away in the first leg on Thursday. The winners of the competition qualify for the Champions League, with United well aware they may struggle to attract some of the names on their list should they not be in Europe’s premier club competition.
Mourinho could soon be one step closer, however, and has urged his players to help make club history by winning the Europa League. He emphasised his desire by saying he may rest players against Arsenal in the Premier League on Sunday. The focus at the Estadio de Balaídos will be to win a competition that has so far eluded the club. If they do so United would become only the fourth club to win all four European trophies – the Uefa Cup/Europa League, the European Cup, the Cup Winners’ Cup and the Super Cup – as well as the Club World Cup, joining Ajax, Juventus and Bayern Munich in having done so.
Mourinho said: “It is the only competition Manchester United have never won and it would be great to close that circle and say we are a club that won every single competition in the football world [sic]. I think it would be a good achievement given the [injury and schedule] problems and allow us to be back in the Champions League next season.
“We are going to try and the Europa League becomes for us more important now. Of course it depends on the result against Celta, how we analyse the game. But if we have to rest players next weekend [at Arsenal on Sunday] ahead of the return leg then we are going to do that.”
Eric Bailly is fit to start against Celta Vigo following a muscle problem and Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are also in contention. Mourinho suggested Juan Mata will play a part, possibly from the start, though the midfielder is not yet able to complete 90 minutes because of a groin problem. Yet after imploring Jones and Smalling on more than one occasion to return to action early, Mourinho again seemed to aim a dig at them when praising Bailly.
“Bailly is ready to play, he’s the kind of personality that will fight against every problem unless it’s impossible – he’s ready to play,” said the manager before confirming Luke Shaw is out for the remainder of the season with a foot injury. “Luke Shaw is injured and it’s an important injury but we are still waiting for one more medical opinion. But it doesn’t matter, he’s out for the season,” he added.
The crowd was unusual in Iran sports history: It included men.
An exhibition women’s basketball game in Tehran last month was attended by Iran basketball federation president Mahmoud Mashhoun and other men.
They weren’t just there to watch the players. They were there to observe the uniforms.
Members of basketball’s governing body had a chance to see players wearing the hijab, which could be allowed permanently if a rule to permit religious headgear is approved during Fiba’s midterm congress on Thursday or Friday. Fiba’s central board approved the proposal on Wednesday.
“I think it will pass,” USA Basketball CEO Jim Tooley told the Associated Press. “It came up in our board meeting and everyone supported making the change.”
Fiba’s technical committee had been preparing and studying proposals to safely allow headgear and the hope is a rule change will be enacted at the meeting.
Great news as @FIBA Central Board finally give approval to wear religious headgear! Rule will hopefully be in place by October this year 👊 pic.twitter.com/GUW0GL9wsD
“We are hopeful that Fiba will come up with a positive decision regarding the matter of headgear,” Mashhoun told FIBA.com after the game.
He attended the game, as did Lubomir Kotleba, an adviser to Fiba’s secretary general.
Under Iran’s strict Islamic norms, male fans are barred from attending women’s sporting events, but many are pushing to change that practice. Allowing the headgear may help.
Fiba told its playing rules committee in February to create a proposal that outlines how headgear can be worn safely during games. Now Fiba’s congress will vote to approve eliminating a longstanding ban on religious headgear in competition, clearing the way for athletes to wear hijabs, turbans and yarmulkes on the court starting in October. According to Fiba, headgear was banned for safety reasons two decades ago out of fear it could fall off, causing a player to slip or become entangled.
The change would be a welcome move by many, including Breanna Stewart, who was one of a dozen WNBA players who signed a letter on social media that was sent to Fiba president Horacio Muratore.
“I think it would mean a lot,” Stewart said. “Obviously with what’s going on in this world, we strive for equality. I think when you’re on the court or playing your sport, that’s your safe haven to get away from everything else that’s going on. It’s huge for them to be able to feel welcomed on the court and play.”
This was ruthless, a systematic and shrewdly executed dismantling of one of the brightest, young attacking sides in Europe. And it showcased everything that is impressive about Juventus. After 21 years in which they have come close only to stumble at the last too often, Italy’s dominant club side can sense a third European Cup is close, even if Real Madrid await in Cardiff next month.
An authoritative display on the Côte d’Azur, with Monaco dismissed in an arena where they have recently proved untouchable, has merely fuelled confidence. This side’s time seems close.
There is such conviction to Max Allegri’s players that they would surely not wilt even if confronted by Real’s current crop of seasoned galácticos. This team have struck the perfect balance between defensive surety and attacking pizzazz. They remain unbreached in the knockout phase of this year’s Champions League – five matches and contests with Barcelona and a normally irrepressible Monaco already played – and teased out their decisive goals every time the home side were just convincing themselves their own reward was imminent. There was strength at the back, bite on the break and in Gonzalo Higuaín, an £85m forward justifying his fee.
The Argentinian’s double was neatly taken here while the Monaco defenders, always a split second behind the play as they heaved to suffocate Juve’s threat, gasped at the brutality of it all. “I fight so hard for these moments,” said Higuaín, who had scored only three times in Europe this season before this tie. “I’m delighted with the goals. I just had to stay calm and keep working hard, and it has paid off. But this isn’t over yet.”
That seemed diplomatic. More telling were the celebrations, hands linked with Juve players strung out in a line in front of a delirious away support, after the final whistle. Beating another of the most potent attacking forces in European competition felt like a statement of intent.
Giorgio Chiellini and Leonardo Bonucci were tested by Kylian Mbappé and Radamel Falcao, but they also demonstrated that canny, occasionally sly, ability to leave rival strikers with bruised egos as well as bodies. Mbappé, the home side’s brightest attacking force, will be a better player for having experienced this suffocation of his talent. Gianluigi Buffon was in a World Cup squad before the 18-year-old forward was born, but the Italy goalkeeper celebrated his 100th Champions League appearance with a 44th clean sheet, a fine stop at his near-post from the striker’s volley and, late on, a sharp save to turn away Kamil Glik’s header.
“In every game I want to show that I deserve to play at this level despite my age,” he said afterwards. “I work hard every day for this. The day I quit, I want people to be sad about it. We played a great game today, exactly the game that we needed to survive at Monaco because they have a great attack. We want to improve day by day. We are close to our objective and it would be naive not to work as hard as possible now.”
Further forward there was the menace of Paulo Dybala and the energy of Claudio Marchisio. Any lingering suspicions that Dani Alves might be a spent force at this level post-Barca can be shelved too, given his blistering performance on the flank, but this is a collective laced with quality. It seems perverse that this club have not won this competition for so long. On this evidence, and barring something outlandish in the semi-final second legs, they can aspire to end that run against Real at the Millennium Stadium.
It was a painful education for Monaco to endure. There had been moments of promise, particularly when Nabil Dirar exploited space from right-back to feed Mbappé in the centre, or when Falcao wriggled away from his markers. But Juve would not be pierced, and the more potent threat was always theirs on the counterattack.
Both goals were exquisite in their construction. The first had actually stemmed from Buffon’s short throw to Andrea Barzagli but, via a few sharp touches from team-mates, Dybala was soon flicking Alves free for the Brazilian to slip a pass infield for Higuaín.
While the forward gathered possession, Alves was already darting with purpose up the flank to collect the return and as Glik trundled across hoping to intercept, back-heeled the ball into space behind a wrong-footed and stumbling Jemerson.
There was Higuaín, permitted a free run by Tiemoué Bakayoko, to sweep a first-time finish across Danijel Subasic and into the corner before Dirar could summon a block. Bakayoko, coveted by Chelsea, endured a torrid evening in a protective mask after breaking his nose in training. His suitors would acknowledge he, like so many of this young team, is still a work in progress.
Falcao had missed the best opportunity to force parity, but Leonardo Jardim, pacing his technical area in frustration, must have feared his team would be wounded again. There had already been one warning, Marchisio eluding Djibril Sidibé to force Subasic into a smart save with his feet, but lessons were not learned. Bakayoko was duly robbed by a combination of Dybala and Alves on the right touchline, the Brazilian easing free of that tangle of legs and with space away from Jemerson, floating a gorgeous centre over Glik to the far post. There Higuaín slid in to score on the half-volley. “This could become an extraordinary season for us,” Allegri added.
Juventus have not conceded three goals at home since November 2012. Optimism abounds.
Liverpool’s Centenary Stand will be renamed after Kenny Dalglish in recognition of his immense contribution to the club.
The 66-year-old has been associated with Liverpool since 1977, following his £440,000 move from Celtic, and during his time as a player and two separate occasions as manager he won eight league titles, three European Cups, two FA Cups and five League Cups, scoring 172 goals in 515 appearances.
Off the field he played a key role in the aftermath of the 1989 Hillsborough disaster and he and his family continue to provide support to the victims’ relatives during the ongoing fight for justice. Dalglish and his wife Marina went to many of the funerals of the 96, and he ensured there was at least one Liverpool player at each funeral.
As a tribute Liverpool’s owners have decided, in the club’s 125th anniversary year, to bestow the naming honour on Dalglish, who with his wife set up the Marina Dalglish Appeal in 2005 – a charity which has raised millions for people who have been diagnosed with cancer on Merseyside.
Anfield already boasts tributes to Bill Shankly and Bob Paisley but this is the first time a stand has been named after any individual. It will be known as The Kenny Dalglish Stand, Liverpool confirmed.
“It is testament to Liverpool’s history and status that we are not lacking in truly great individuals, whose names could easily grace a stand at Anfield,” the club’s principal owner, John W Henry, said. “But in Kenny Dalglish we have a person who carries such immense significance to the fabric of this club, so it feels somewhat incumbent on us to recognise this in a manner that is befitting to the man.
“He is unique, not just to Liverpool but to the game in England as a whole, having achieved greatness as a player and then enjoyed such success as a manager. His record and trophies won on both fronts speak for themselves.
“However, Kenny’s contribution to Liverpool goes beyond goals scored, points amassed and silverware placed in the cabinet. His values are Liverpool’s values – he represents what is best about this football club.
“The leadership and solace he gave to individuals, the club and city as it tried to come to terms with the trauma and tragedy of Hillsborough transcended sporting achievement.
“His name is synonymous with our club, with our home and the city of Liverpool. Now it will be as visible as it is palpable.”
The official renaming ceremony will take place at a later date this year.
Bertrand Traoré scored twice as Ajax ran out comprehensive winners in a pulsating Europa League semi-final first leg against Lyon at the Amsterdam Arena.
The on-loan Chelsea forward opened the scoring before setting up the teenage striker Kasper Dolberg for a second as a youthful Ajax side blew away their opponents in the first half.
Amin Younes added a third just after half-time and Traoré rounded off the scoring for the home side five minutes after Mathieu Valbuena had grabbed Lyon’s away goal.
The visiting side made the brighter start and would have been ahead after 10 minutes had Maxwel Cornet converted Lucas Tousart’s cross from close range, but André Onana made a fine save to deny the Lyon forward with his legs.
Nabil Fekir was wasteful with his first effort on 21 minutes and it proved costly when Ajax took the lead four minutes later. Hakim Ziyech’s inswinging free-kick was probably destined for the far corner but Traoré got the faintest of touches to head the ball in from eight yards.
The lead was doubled on 34 minutes when Dolberg darted between a static defence from Traoré’s header to lash home his fifth Europa League goal of the season.
Younes was denied a third on the stroke of half-time, after combining well with Davy Klaassen on the edge of the area, with the German’s shot well saved by Anthony Lopes.
Younes was not to be denied four minutes after the interval, though, converting Ziyech’s pass with a deflected shot that crept past Lopes and over the line.
Fekir kept Onana’s palms warm with a crisp left-foot effort on 52 minutes and Dolberg did the same with Lopes at the other end as Ajax pressed for a fourth.
Traoré tested Lopes once more before Lyon grabbed a goal on 66 minutes through Valbuena, who shot precisely past Onana from 15 yards after Lasse Schöne’s weak defensive header.
Lyon could smell blood and the substitute Rachid Ghezzal teed up Fekir but the France forward failed to convert when through on goal.
Traoré, a 21-year-old Burkina Faso international, made Lyon pay for their profligacy by converting another superb Ziyech cross on 71 minutes to restore Ajax’s three-goal lead.
Caution was thrown to the wind by Lyon, who were denied by an excellent double save by Onana from Ghezzal and Rafael, but the Ligue 1 side also left themselves open to the counterattack. Younes, Klaassen, Ziyech and the substitute Donny van de Beek tried to add to Ajax’s advantage in the closing stages but Lyon somehow held firm to retain a slim hope of overturning the deficit next Thursday.
“We played very well, if we keep playing like this we can beat anyone 4-1 or even more,” Onana told Ajax TV. “We worked together, we defended together, we attacked together.
The Lyon manager, Bruno Genesio, said: ‘We must believe. We must digest this defeat. It must be believed that the feat is still possible.”
The number of footballers seeking help for mental health problems is rising, the Professional Footballers’ Association has said.
Aaron Lennon continues to receive treatment for a stress-related illness after the Everton winger was detained under the Mental Health Act on Sunday after Greater Manchester police became concerned for his welfare on a busy road in Salford. Lennon, who has won 21 England caps, was taken to hospital and is continuing to receive care with the support of his club.
He has not played for Ronald Koeman’s team since 11 February but had trained as usual at Everton’s Finch Farm base on Saturday in preparation for Chelsea’s visit to Goodison Park the following day. The 30-year-old was not included in the matchday squad and police were called at 4.35pm on Sunday.
It is understood the former Leeds United and Tottenham Hotspur player, who joined Everton for £4m in 2015, has no history of mental health issues.
Lennon received messages of support from across sport. The former world heavyweight boxing champion Frank Bruno, a mental health ambassador, tweeted: “Thoughts are with Aaron Lennon today, stay strong & as positive as possible, there is light at the end of tunnel. You will get through this boss.” The player’s representative, Base Soccer Agency, said: “Everyone at Base Soccer sends their support to AaronLennon12 – get well soon and stay strong.” A statement from Everton said: “Thank you for all the kind messages for Aaron. We are supporting him through this and his family has appealed for privacy at this time.”
Following news of Lennon’s illness, the PFA revealed a growing number of footballers are using a dedicated service it provides to help its members’ mental health.
Michael Bennett, the PFA’s head of welfare, said: “We put a player welfare department in place in 2012 because I felt a lot of onus was being placed on the physical aspect of players playing football and not enough on their emotional side, and I think the two go hand in hand. Last year we had 160 [requesting help], of which 62 were current players and 98 were former players, and that is growing year on year. Key for me is making our members aware of what is in place and the more we raise awareness, the more people will use the service.
“I think it is a male mindset that it is seen as a weakness, so for people like Clarke Carlisle, Rio Ferdinand – even Prince Harry – to talk about their experience brings the taboo down and you become more comfortable being able to talk about it. We are trying to change that mindset because if you were to twist an ankle or pull a hamstring – because you can physically see it – you can treat it, but because mental illness is something you can’t see it is not viewed the same as something you can see.”
The PFA provides a variety of help and advice options for its members, including a 24-hour phone-line and access to a psychiatrist, and employs more than 100 counsellors nationwide.
• In the UK, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14.
In recent years the prospect of playing Test cricket has inched from the grasp of Ireland like the grapes hanging over Tantalus but finally the dream looks set to become a reality, with the two-match one‑day series in England starting on Friday both a historic first visit and perhaps the last time the men in green will be seen here in their current guise.
Associate members of the International Cricket Council since 1993 and given one‑day status in 2006, Ireland are buoyed by the news that came out of the board meeting of the governing body in Dubai last week. Subject to approval in June, the path will be cleared for them, and most likely Afghanistan, to apply for Test status and begin a new era at the top table.
“It’s slightly overdue,” says Niall O’Brien, their ever-chirping wicketkeeper. “But it would be a dream come true for a lad like me from a small village, Sandymount, outside Dublin, who played cricket in the garden with my brothers and sister and friends, pretending to be Alec Stewart, Graham Thorpe, Jack Russell or my favourite, Steve Waugh. We are keeping fingers and toes crossed to get it over the line.”
Where once a country simply had to demonstrate the requisite cricket culture – a phrase that masked an acutely political and unwritten process – Ireland can now work through a list of set criteria that will demonstrate their readiness to make the step up and with it potentially unlock finances that will at least double the €6m-a-year turnover that now puts them roughly on a par with Gloucestershire, the county hosting their first bilateral fixture in England before the second match at Lord’s on Sunday.
For Warren Deutrom, chief executive of Cricket Ireland, the mood is one of cautious optimism. It is an outlook that has served him well during his time in the role, having overseen a radical transformation in the past 10 years, beginning from a standing start in late 2006 in a single office in Dublin flanked by the governing bodies for Irish community games and mountaineering and with only one member of staff – a PA who worked four mornings a week.
“It’s a totally different dynamic now,” says O’Brien, who was one of two full‑time professional players in the side who put Irish cricket on the map by defeating Pakistan in the 2007 World Cup. “The whole infrastructure has changed from people helping out to a fully functioning cricket federation – things are light years from back then. There was more of a fun element to our cricket, these days there are more expectations on us as a team and with that comes responsibility.”
Certainly while further tournament upsets have been achieved over the past decade since the wild celebrations in Jamaica on St Patrick’s Day in 2007, such as Kevin O’Brien’s almighty felling of England in Bangalore in 2011 and the humbling of West Indies four years later, behind the scenes there have been building blocks put in place to make Irish cricket both a viable business and a more attractive career path for players.
Along with 30 staff, 19 central contracts that range from €20,000 to €70,000, an academy supported by a 10-year deal with the Irish-Indian conglomerate Shapoorji Pallonji, and participation figures that have quadrupled in four years to 52,000, is a semi‑professional domestic structure that from this year has first‑class and List A status. Played by three provincial sides, it is intended to help bridge the gap between club and international cricket and perhaps one day both expand and retain the best Irish cricketers.
Achieving all this has been no mean feat, given an unpredictable fixture list not bound by the future tours programme – something that would be altered by Test status and the proposed 13-team ODI league – and the past inequality of world cricket. The latter is summed up by the most honking statistic in the 2015 book Second XI by Peter Miller and Tim Wigmore that showed Ireland earned $56,000 for reaching the Super Eights of the 2007 World Cup, compared to $11m given to full members, and first-round duffers, Zimbabwe.
“Test status isn’t about drawing down money from the ICC,” Deutrom says. “It is about helping us achieve the bigger goal which, rather than seeking to make Ireland a major nation in cricket, is to make cricket a major sport in Ireland. It will give us so much more profile and encourage boys and girls to take up the sport and maybe look to aim higher by pursuing a career that can see them travel the world.”
The timing of Ireland’s impending Test arrival brings with it a slight tinge of frustration, given the captain, William Porterfield, the O’Brien brothers, Boyd Rankin (absent this week through injury) and Ed Joyce – their greatest run‑scorer – are into their 30s. There is talent behind them – not least Paul Stirling, who will doubtless come out all guns blazing this week – but the sense is that with results in the limited-overs formats petering off since the last World Cup, the longest form of the game will be met by a side very much in transition.
Niall O’Brien, who made his debut in 2006 and is now 35, accepts this point but highlights a strong record in first-class cricket that has seen Ireland win four of the six editions of the ICC Intercontinental Cup, albeit having recently been replaced by Afghanistan at the top of the table after a crushing innings defeat in March.
Ireland have of course had to deal with their best players seeking to further their careers overseas, with Joyce, Rankin and Eoin Morgan all pursuing international careers with England and only the first two returning since. Test status, believes Deutrom, may not immediately stop such defection but it might give them pause for thought down the line.
Test cricket is the primary thing cited in the past by players but it could be 20 years before we can match the pay
He says: “You would be fool to say no one will ever leave again but we have always taken the view that, rather than blame others, we should look in the mirror and say: ‘Why don’t we remove all of those reasons and make ourselves as aspirational for those players as possible?’
“Test cricket is the primary thing cited in the past by players but it could be some will think it will be 20 years before we can match the pay. And that is another mountain we must climb, so until then all we can do is look at what we can control and keep making playing for Ireland as attractive as possible.”
Morgan, who will captain England against Ireland for the third and fourth time this week, certainly offered Test cricket as his main reason for leaving the country of his birth in 2009, giving rise to the (perhaps fanciful) question of whether he may one day return to Irish colours, say once the 2019 World Cup is completed, for the end of his playing career.
“I actually could see that,” Niall O’Brien says. “It’s not something I’ve spoken to him about but after the Champions Trophy and the World Cup it may well be of interest to finish his career playing T20 leagues around the world and batting for Ireland in Test cricket. We’d certainly love to have him at No4 make no mistake and I’m sure the Irish public would love to see him wear the shamrock again.”
He then adds in true O’Brien fashion: “I might ask him on Friday afternoon when he comes out to bat.”
Jonny Bairstow warmed up for England’s one day international against Ireland with a career best 174 in 113 balls against Durham as Yorkshire completed their highest successful one-day run-chase, scoring 339 for four to win by six wickets in the Royal London Cup at Headingley. Alongside Joe Root, who added 55 for Yorkshire, Bairstow led a stand 189 for the second wicket inside 26 overs after Durham’s Stephen Cook and Michael Richardson both hit hundreds and Keaton Jennings scored 72 in their side’s 335 for five. Bairstow, who was dropped on 71, hit seven sixes and 16 fours before being caught off the bowling of James Weighell.
Meanwhile Eoin Morgan believes Ben Stokes will return to an England team with “all the attributes” to win the Champions Trophy emboldened by his first taste of playing in the Indian Premier League. Stokes misses this week’s one-day internationals against Ireland to remain with Rising Pune Supergiant, where the £1.7m signing has picked up three man-of-the-match awards to date and scored an incendiary 103 not out against Gujarat Lions on Monday. Morgan, who returned from India that day to captain England, expects Stokes to be glowing when he rejoins the squad for a training camp in Spain before the South Africa series that starts on 24 May. “Rubbing shoulders with the best names in the world, outperforming them or growing in confidence from playing with them are two things he’ll have in abundance when he comes back,” said Morgan. “It makes us grow as a group, knowing we have a player who potentially is the best in the world. That’s huge.”
Middlesex beat Hampshire by 89 runs (Duckworth-Lewis) in a rain-interrupted game at the Ageas Bow. Nick Gubbins hit 114 in Middlesex’s 295, before Hampshire were restricted to 146 for seven off 30 overs, Toby Roland-Jones taking four for 10. Northamptonshire and Worcestershire tied at the County Ground. Ben Cox hit 82 in Worcester’s 277 for nine, before Rob Newton’s 107 led Northants to 277 for seven. Ali Martin
Silvestre de Sousa hit peak form here three days before the start of the Flat jockeys’ championship, kicking home the first three winners, including the Sagaro Stakes, and being beaten just a neck on his other ride. As is so often the case for De Sousa, who still seems underemployed for a jockey of his talent, his mounts were not strongly fancied and won despite odds of 12-1, 15-2 and 5-1, but even such a productive day was not enough to induce optimism in the Brazilian.
“Zero” was his response when asked to rate his chance of recovering the champion jockey’s title of 2015, which Jim Crowley took off him last year. When reporters protested, a smiling De Sousa insisted: “I’m telling you, I should be a 100-1 shot. I just fill in the gaps for the other jocks.
“I’m not targeting anything for this year but I want to ride as many winners as I can and make as many contacts as I can make. I hope to keep everybody happy. And I wish I can pick a nice horse to take me to the big places.”
De Sousa may already have found such a horse, having landed the mount on Dream Castle in Saturday’s 2,000 Guineas. Previously partnered by Oisin Murphy, the colt started favourite for the Greenham but had nothing left when passed close home by Barney Roy. His trainer, Saeed bin Suroor, hopes that the fitting of a hood will help him settle through the first part of the Guineas and finish more strongly, but De Sousa appears less than optimistic on the subject, while describing Dream Castle as “a nice ride to have”.
“I’m a 33-1 shot or about there,” he said. When told that the betting market takes a sunnier view of Dream Castle, who is half those odds, De Sousa said: “Well, that’s the price I give it. He ran real well in the Greenham. You have to see if he’s going to stay. It looks like he had a lot of speed early on and he just fell away in the last furlong.
“I rode him at home and he feels like he’s a seven-furlong horse. The Guineas is only once a year, so you have to go for that and after that we’ll decide where you go next with him.”
Getting the mount on Dream Castle is the latest sign of a rapprochement between De Sousa and Bin Suroor, who fell out three years ago when the trainer replaced the jockey with Kieren Fallon aboard a Derby prospect. “I was there before and they decided to bring another jockey in, but we had a fantastic time together,” De Sousa said. “I’m very glad he’s going to put me up again.” He has no ride in Sunday’s 1,000 Guineas and jokingly said: “If Aidan O’Brien wants to give me a call, I’m available.”
Sweet Selection’s battling success in the Sagaro was the highlight of De Sousa’s day, although there may have been additional sweetness in getting first run on a Frankie Dettori-ridden favourite and winning by a short-head half an hour earlier. Hughie Morrison said Sweet Selection will now be trained for the Gold Cup at the Royal meeting here next month and her odds for that race halved to 20-1.
There was an upbeat bulletin about Barney Roy when his trainer, Richard Hannon, was among the winners here. “Barney did his last bit of work yesterday, he worked very well,” he said. “Please don’t put this as if I’m being bullish, because I hate that, but I think he has a good chance.
“It’s an excellent race. I can’t wait. It’s gonna be a cracking race: four unbeaten horses going there [Barney Roy, Churchill, Al Wukair and Eminent]. It’s great, that’s what the Guineas should be about.”
Churchill remains a hot favourite at 11-8 and several firms shortened him again after Blue Point, a horse he beat when last seen in October, won on his seasonal reappearance here. Charlie Appleby said Blue Point would run next in the Commonwealth Cup, for which he is 5-1 second favourite behind Caravaggio.
Redcar
2.00 Our Little Pony 2.30 Bella Alissa 3.00 Daira Bridge 3.30 Manatee Bay 4.00 Snookered 4.30 Gilgamesh 5.00 Rita’s Man
Lingfield
2.10 Pillar Of Society 2.40 Flowers On Venus 3.10 Author’s Dream 3.40 Synodic 4.10 Endless Charm 4.40 Welsh Rose 5.10 Pearly Prince (nb)
Towcester
2.20 Mister Showman 2.50 Sam Red 3.20 Shurbland 3.50 Adarenna 4.20 Kayla 4.50 Brown Bear 5.25 Rose Tree
Sedgefield
5.30 Dubai Celebrity 6.00 Banny’s Lad 6.30 Mitcd 7.00 Gambol 7.30 I’m Still Waiting 8.00 Scorpion Star 8.30 Brecon Hill
Musselburgh
6.10 Longroom 6.40 Benjamin Thomas 7.10 Vizier 7.40 Cosmic Tigress 8.10 Desert Ace 8.40 Tanawar (nap)
Can it really be only 14 months since Fifa’s new broom, Gianni Infantino, took office at world football’s governing body – and a mere 11 since he told the world “I can officially inform you the crisis is over”? Next week’s Fifa congress is in Bahrain (but of course), and Infantino approaches it reportedly on the brink of his second personal ethics investigation since ascending to the presidency. His second! One has to admire his ethics ethic.
Then again, there are strong rumours – denied at present – that Infantino will use the congress to push for the replacement of Fifa’s ethics chiefs Hans‑Joachim Eckert and Cornel Borbély; a development which, it is suggested, would prompt a two-year hiatus in ongoing investigations, as the new appointees would be given that sort of timeframe to get on top of their briefs. Say what you like about Fifa, it’s a very understanding place to work.
Broom-wise, though, the newness or otherwise of Gianni has always reminded me of that famous Only Fools and Horses scene when Trigger declares mistily that he’s had the same broom for 20 years, before mentioning that it’s had 17 new heads and 14 new handles. As his mate inquires: “How the hell can it be the same bloody broom then?” On this, as with so much else, I’m with Trigger. No matter how many new heads it has, a Fifa president still feels very much the same bloody broom.
Like his noted predecessors in the office, it feels as if Gianni’s primary function is sweeping crises under the carpet. Still, if we may celebrate his past year’s achievements for a moment: he is the lawyer who was discovered to have failed to sign an employment contract when he took the presidency – “a compliance issue”, it was eventually found, as opposed to an ethical one. Ditto all the private jet flights he took in the early months of his presidency. Occasionally, Infantino has to stoop to things concerning actual football, and has duly instituted a lucrative yet product-aborting 48-team World Cup.
And now, according to reports in last weekend’s Der Spiegel – denied again – he is under preliminary investigation by the ethics committee over allegations of exerting prohibited influence on April’s Confederation of African Football election. Perhaps most explosively, senior Fifa powerbroker Sheikh Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah has just resigned from all his positions within football, accused last week in all but name of giving bribes to the Guam FA president, Richard Lai, in exchange for votes and support.
Last Thursday, Lai pleaded guilty in a New York court to bribery charges. He was obviously – and presumably until that precise moment – a member of Fifa’s audit and compliance committee.
Sheikh Ahmad insists he is innocent, and will be back in the humble service of football when this crazy misunderstanding has been cleared up – and, as I say, Fifa is traditionally a hugely understanding place to work. They love a prodigal. But with the FBI announcing pointedly that co-conspirators will be hunted down “in jurisdictions such as Asia, the Middle East and around the globe”, let us mourn even the temporary absence of the sheikh, with his heavily cultivated kingmaker reputation and a ponytail that appeared to be overwhelmingly influenced by Steven Seagal’s direct‑to‑bargain‑bin era.
The only solace is that he retains his senior position within the International Olympic Committee, where he was also – would you believe – heavily involved in getting Thomas Bach elected to the presidency. It’s a lifetime of service for these guys. For whatever reason, the IOC have yet to break their silence on this unfortunate development, despite having been so quick out of the traps to cast themselves as morally superior to their fellow Swiss-based governing body in the past. “Enough is enough,” ran one of Bach’s addresses in 2015. “We hope that now, finally, everyone at Fifa has at last understood that they cannot continue to remain passive. They must act swiftly to regain credibility because you cannot forever dissociate the credibility of Fifa from the credibility of football.” So I’m sure we shall hear from the custodian of the Olympic brand in due course.
As for other matters to preoccupy Infantino in the run-up to congress, Le Monde last week reported that French authorities have launched an investigation into the award of the 2018 and 2022 World Cup rights. Last month Fifa announced $369m of losses for 2016, with a bigger hit forecast for 2017. And it has emerged that next year’s World Cup in Russia has managed to convince a mere 10 sponsors to back it. Even the malfunctioning Brazil World Cup had 20 corporate partners at this stage and the latest developments in the Fifa story are hardly likely to stimulate a rush.
On the one hand, we need not worry unduly. Vladimir Putin’s Russia is a place where some oligarch or other can frequently be prevailed upon to pick up the slack in the hour of need. So we can expect the bills to be paid one way or another. On the other hand, state TV channels are currently refusing to meet Fifa’s target figure for broadcast rights, leaving the governing body without a broadcaster in the host nation.
So that’s where we find our Infantino on the eve of congress. All presidencies are much more difficult than they look from the outside – we have the current occupant of the Oval Office to thank for that unique insight. Even so, has there ever been a new broom quite as useless as the old one or less equal to the task of clean-up?
When I first heard the news about Aaron Lennon, there was a feeling of sadness because I don’t want anyone to experience what I’ve been through. But it was also a feeling of relief.
My former team-mate at Leeds has got to the crisis point that I hit but he has now entered the support system and has the opportunity to address what is going on, rehabilitate himself and live a full and blessed life.
I remember our days at Leeds really well. Aaron has always been a really quiet lad. He was never someone who bragged about anything but just got on with his business. He’s quite possibly the quickest thing on two legs that I’ve ever had to man mark in five‑a‑sides. When he is on form he is literally unplayable and I know there is still plenty more to come from him.
We spent some time together and that’s what encouraged me to feel that I could reach out to him via Twitter. Although I don’t know the exact specifics of his situation, I have a good experience and understanding of the spectrum of mental health issues and I wanted to offer my support at this time. Having been through this situation myself I know that anything more than that is imposition and if it’s not warranted it will just cause further stress. It’s an approach that I would implore everyone to adopt – Azza’s going to embark on a journey where he needs to find the right recovery process and rehabilitation and his family will help to tailor that to suit his needs. But if I can be of help then I will be.
The single most annoying question that I ever hear on this topic is how can someone who is a millionaire be depressed. Mental health conditions are illnesses, which means they are indiscriminate. He is no more immune to mental health issues than he is to flu or diarrhoea or anything of that order. He is a human being so whether he has millions in the bank or is a man or woman is irrelevant.
It’s actually of no surprise to me because Aaron’s in the prime demographic. We saw suicide rates last year peaked for young black males between the ages of 30 and 45 and that group is the most susceptible to experiencing mental issues. So the car that you drive does not prevent you from succumbing to this illness. That is a question that is proffered by the media, and I think that is doing a disservice to their viewers or readership.
The requisite level of awareness and understanding in society is now such where people are aware of the issue but those who are suffering need to be treated accordingly. The dialogue needs to be at the level of the understanding that there now is in society. Let’s not talk about why someone has mental health issues. What we should be talking about is whether there is a sufficient support structure in place. Is the screening and diagnostic process right and does it suit the industry they are in? Those are the more appropriate questions.
Things are definitely improving in society as a whole, however. People have begun to realise that this is an issue that affects everyone in the world and is bordering on a pandemic. Awareness is growing but the support mechanisms are not. Everything in place is based on centuries-old models of sanitariums and are not up to speed with modern society and modern living. That’s what my charity, the Clarke Carlisle Foundation for Dual Diagnosis, is aiming to change.
Our official launch dinner is on the 30 June at the Imperial War Museum North but we’ve already signed up for two huge projects. The first is building the National Centre for Dual Diagnosis where we have teamed up with a company called Architectonicus to bring the whole model in-house so there’s not a disparate service from detox to diagnosis to treatment, rehabilitation and aftercare. The shorter-term project is we have teamed up with another company called Attigo to develop an app that is going to be industry-specific in its language and reference points that will give people instant access to therapists. The “one-click counsellor”. We’re hoping to eliminate waiting times for talking therapy.
Being involved helps me feel like I’m contributing and giving back to those whose lives I have affected through the course of my illness and my actions. Kindness and general humanity is a huge factor in raising someone’s self-esteem.
But the biggest flaw in football is there is no legislation for football clubs to follow. The Football Association has not put in place measures for the psychological and emotional well-being of their employees. It’s in the contracts that they should take care of any injury – physical or mental – and pay for the rehabilitation but there is no stipulation about the base level of care that is needed. This is inadequate because it’s then down to a club’s interpretation, so whatever they think is appropriate, they will put in place but another club might do nothing.
Everything is focused on disaster recovery and crisis management once a guy is suicidal or is fully reclusive. Football does not do that about any other aspect of physical health – they do stretches, they take supplements and go through all these routines in order to maintain healthy physical performance. This is the approach that needs to be taken with mental health issues. It’s not about disaster recovery – that should only be a percentage of the support that is out there.
Unfortunately it is inevitable that some people will get to that stage but if there’s a greater focus on early intervention, education on coping strategies and emotional literacy, all of this can be introduced at academy level. So when a player comes into a professional environment he understands that football is a vocation and not his sole identity.
In my opinion that’s a legacy of society. We can’t blame the NHS – they’re understaffed and underfunded so are constantly putting out fires. People have to get to blatant disaster before there is help out there for them. The whole thing needs adapting and I believe it’s possible.
What we need to stop doing is sensationalising the journey. There’s a general belief that you’re either well or suicidal. There is a huge spectrum in between and the more that we can get people to talk about their experiences, the more we can help to recover just by a chat and a hug. It can be as simple as a couple of Paracetamol for cold. In doing that, we can alleviate a large part of the burden on the crisis-management centres and really start to fight back against this terrible illness.
In the UK, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14.
Delighted supporters of Portsmouth have barely had time to sit down or savour promotion from League Two before facing a new character-shaping decision over the future of the club.
Portsmouth, whose financial collapse into administration while in the Premier League seven years ago embodied English football’s reckless wage spending and the risks of relying on far-flung investors, have been rescued, stabilised and begun to rise again because of the ownership and hard work of their supporters.
A remarkable partnership forged during the crisis, when the existence of the club formed in 1898 was plunged into doubt, has become a beacon to the wider game. The Pompey Supporters Trust, structured according to mutual, not-for-profit principles, raised enough money from 2,750 members to take on 48.5% of the ownership burden in 2013, in cooperation with 16 “presidents”, mostly local Portsmouth supporters wealthy enough to buy larger individual shares amounting to 51.5%.
Ashley Brown, the trust chairman who was widely recognised to have done sterling work in helping to forge this fan‑owned alternative to the parade of financial investors who left Pompey on the brink, was appointed last year as chief executive of Supporters Direct, which exists to enhance fan involvement in clubs.
Now, barely three weeks since Paul Cook led his team up from League Two after four tough seasons, the trust and presidents must decide whether to abandon their supporter-owned partnership at this moment of success and sell the club. The proposed buyer can seem unlikely even in today’s gathering of international football investors: a California-based former Walt Disney executive, 75-year-old Michael Eisner.
Eisner, having stepped down in 2005 as the chairman and chief executive after a 21-year expansion of Disney, runs a more modest series of media ventures in his US company, Tornante LLC, of which Topps, the sticker company, is the best known. He followed the interest of other US investors in the rising fortunes of English football last year and is known to have looked at other clubs before landing on Portsmouth as his best prospect, and making a bid.
Eisner’s plans will be further interrogated on Thursday evening in Portsmouth’s Guildhall at a meeting of the supporters’ trust members, whose vote will determine whether the sale happens. During his visit, Eisner explained the genesis of his interest in investing in English football by pointing to sport’s central position in the modern, on‑demand media landscape: “It’s the only thing you have to make an appointment for.”
He has been attracted by the passionate support of Portsmouth and the club’s history but acknowledged that, like all the US investors in football, he will want to see a return on his investment in what he described as a daunting financial prospect.
“It seems to me that this would be an investment my children and grandchildren could participate in. We are not doing it to have a failure financially, obviously, but that is not the only reason why we are doing it.”
His offer, which has divided opinion among supporters, is not a golden ticket back to a star player wage bill and Premier League status. Eisner has bid £1,000 for each of the 5,673 shares in Portsmouth to buy the club outright, which amounts only to what the supporter-owners paid to buy the shares from the fraught administration process in 2013. Unlike the recent £100m sale of Swansea City, in which the
original shareholders made 100 times their initial investment when selling to the US investors, the presidents will not be making any personal profit, although there is an alternative long-term formula by which they can double their money if Pompey reach and stay in the Premier League.
With the club’s chief executive, Mark Catlin, making public interventions highlighting the need for £5m to pay for improvements to Fratton Park over the next five years, Eisner has said he will invest at least £10m new equity into the club.
The partnership agreement between the trust and presidents set out that a 75% majority of all shareholders is required to approve the sale of the club. The trust will vote as one block, determined by a simple majority of the 2,750 supporters who have paid to be members. Contemplating the dilemma presented by the Eisner bid, the trust board and presidents’ advisory board have set out key points to consider, without explicitly endorsing a view either way. The trust board said its 11 members had not reached a consensus so could not recommend acceptance or rejection. But their letter makes plain a series of disappointments that in negotiations Eisner has not been prepared to retain some trust ownership and work with supporter directors on a future Portsmouth board.
Money, of course, is the heart of the matter. The trust and presidents agree the club needs a lot of it and they see over the horizon the wage inflation in the Championship and the vast financial advantage of parachute payments banked by clubs relegated from the Premier League. Catlin and Tony Brown, Portsmouth’s financial director, have issued their own advice, signalling a clear view investment is needed, cautioning that even League One clubs made average losses of £1.7m in 2014-15, which were mostly covered by owners.
The trust recognises the £5m needed to maintain and improve the ageing Fratton Park, £2m having been spent under the supporter-owners, who have also invested in a training ground. Minimal work was done on the ground or other infrastructure throughout the years of multimillion-pound spending on extravagant players wages financed with loans from the owner Alexandre Gaydamak, which put Portsmouth’s name on the FA Cup in 2008 under the management of Harry Redknapp. Pompey’s crisis was precipitated when Gaydamak stated the following year he was unable to subsidise losses any longer and the club plummeted through a crowd of financially driven owners before becoming the first Premier League club to fall into administration.
So the supporters’ divide about whether to hitch the club’s future to Eisner is not about whether Pompey have a money mountain to scale if they are ever to sniff the Premier League again. It is more about the details of this deal and whether it has to be done now. Brown has said he does not believe there is a sudden, urgent need for cash and the trust was already planning for a new community share issue, envisaging further investment from existing or new presidents, to maintain momentum.
Mick Williams, one of the 16 presidents, says he is preparing to vote in favour of selling, arguing a further round of fund-raising from supporters and trust members will not necessarily generate the money needed.
“My heart is for fan ownership and we never expected to get our money back,” he says, “but fans are weary of fundraising and we just won’t get the money needed for the club. If you had to choose a prospective owner you couldn’t have written a spec for Michael Eisner: he’s a businessman, philanthropic, he is involved in sport; to me it’s a no-brainer. I’m in the yes camp.”
Pam Wilkins, the trust’s vice-chair, speaking in a personal capacity, said she was against and is concerned by the lack of concessions Eisner has made to supporter involvement.
“I don’t think it’s a good offer,” she said. “He would be getting one of the most stable clubs in the entire Football League, with no debt, for very little. After all the hard work we’ve gone through to save the club, get it up and running again, build a training ground, get promoted, I don’t think we should just give it away to the first offer which has come along.
“I believe supporters should be involved in football clubs, that supporter ownership is the right way. Once it’s gone, that’s it, we will never have the chance again.”
After Eisner’s visit to rally support this week, Portsmouth’s supporter-owners will vote by 19 May whether to cede their precious, hard-fought mutual ownership and entrust it to him and his promises of future investment.
There is nothing more amazing than the Gazprom Big Cup, sponsored by Uefa. More than anything, it gives the football world an incredible sense of security and wellbeing; Gazprom are, after all, majority-owned by the Russian government, and there is no body in the world more devoted to integrity, fair play and rollocking good fun than the Russian government. Gosh, The Fiver is choking up here, though that might also be a consequence of light-headedness following a post-prandial balloon of Публичное Акционерное Общество. Either way, nice one Cyrillics.
The latest instalment of sport’s most ethically pure competition sees Monaco take on Juventus. The rise of Monaco is a fairytale like no other, a tiny principality more interested in tax avoidance than football, whose football ground is so important that it was built on top of car park, somehow producing a young, exciting football team; how on earth could it possibly have happened? Well, Monaco are majority-owned by Dmitry Rybolovlev, who bought a three-bed end-of-terrace there in 2010. Then, in 2011, he thought his daughter may as well own 66% of the local club, because why shouldn’t she? Naturally, the remaining stake is held by the royal family, because why wouldn’t it be?
So, how have Monaco got to here? Well, they’ve pursued a cunning yet altruistic strategy of muscling less wealthy clubs off their best young players, selling them at a huge profit, then starting again. And at the same time, Rybolovlev became great buddies with Jorge Mendes, another famed lover of the beautiful game. Why, it’s the feelgood hit of the summer!
But to go any further in the competition, the plucky outsiders will have to beat the plucky underdogs. Juventus, as they’re also known, are also known as The Old Lady, and have been champions of Italy 32 times, champions of Europe twice. And, most recently, they triumphed against all odds to reach the 2015 final; that’s “odds” as in “what are the odds the most famous name in Italian football will find it fairly easy to return from a match-fixing scandal and still make loads of money, given that it remains the most famous name in Italian football and football is more awash with money than ever before”. As such, their subsequent success has been an invigorating, restorative redemptive joy to warm the heart of your c0ckle, for we shall not see its like again. Hip-hip for soccer!
Join Paul Doyle for hot MBM coverage of Monaco 2-2 Juventus, from 7.45pm BST.
“If no positive response is received from the All India Football Federation (AIFF), the club will approach central sports minister, prime minister of India and also president of AFC. If these steps fail, the club will have no other choice but resorting to world-wide protests, sitting demonstration near AFC/Fifa offices, picketing of AIFF office, mass hunger strike/fast unto death protest” – Aizawl FC, champions of India, go all in with their anger after the AIFF’s proposals failed to include them in a revamped Indian Super League. “Aizawl’s win has put the federation in a tight spot,” parped an AIFF source.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“According to rumours, Arsenal are now proposing to pay Alexis Sánchez £300,000 a week. Has the world gone mad? That’s about the same every week as four years’ wages for 10,000 police officers” – Andrew Geddes.
“I understand that the Mayor of Madrid, Manuela Carmena, is a little disgruntled to hear that Juanfran missed Atlético’s Big Cup shoeing by Real. This has scuppered her plan to name a street in the Spanish capital after the swashbuckling full-back, in addition to one for Real midfielder Isco, should they both score in the tie. They were to be known as the Streets of Juanfran and Isco” – Mike Wrall.
“Re: yesterday’s Fiver and Graham Haslam (yesterday’s Fiver letters) banging the drum for the ‘halcyon days’ of the European Cup as a straight-up knockout competition, when Liverpool occasionally had to face the might of Bye in the first round, or hand out a tricky Umpteen–One drubbing to Crusaders or Oulu before trying to beat the mighty Servette in the second round, when yet still nine times out of 10, just as now, the European giants of the time contested the latter stages every year. It’s just all fans of a certain age only remember the glory games and not the times that Real Madrid, Liverpool and Bayern Munich handed out a routine shoeing to Avenir Beggen or Dundalk on their way to the quarters again. Never has a competition been so romanticised as the European Cup of the 70s and 80s. It’s the competition that made Europe’s giant clubs what they are after all” – Jason Tew.
“Ben Jones’s pedantic sensibilities are being offended unnecessarily by the fact that the ‘1,057 Pedants’ FPL league contains 1,317 teams (yesterday’s letters). Provided that 260 (but only 260) of the teams in that league are run by non-pedants then the name is perfectly fitting. It’s not dissimilar to allowing non-English players (and indeed teams) to play in the English Premier League alongside the English ones. Perhaps he should question whether he deserves one of those imaginary ‘1,057 Pedants’ T-shirts” – David Wall.
“Surely the best kind of T-shirt The Fiver could produce would be a parody of those ‘I’m with stupid’ shirts, only saying ‘I’m with 1,056 others’. This could provide your Fiver reader with the illusion of being cool enough to belong to an exclusive society and of having lots of friends, unless I’m just protesting too much” – Ed Taylor.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Ed Taylor.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
Kick It Out have rightly called out Italy’s football authorities after Pescara midfielder Sulley Muntari was banned for one game, having walked off the pitch against Cagliari in protest at being racially abused by members of the crowd. “The gutless failure to not take action by the Italian authorities should not be allowed to pass,” read a statement. “It’s unbelievable that Cagliari escaped punishment.” Serie A’s disciplinary suits said no action would be taken because “an approximate number of only 10” individuals were involved, not enough for a punishment under its rules.
Everton have confirmed that Aaron Lennon is receiving treatment for a stress-related illness. The winger was taken to hospital on Sunday to be assessed after police officers assisted him on a busy road in Salford.
Francesco Totti will hang up his playing boots, or just hurl them on the floor somewhere, at the end of the season. “Francesco is Roma, I want to be as close to him as possible,” cooed club tracksuit Monchi. “I’d love to learn even 1% of the huge amount that he knows.”
Slaven Bilic’s future at West Ham depends on their last two home games against Tottenham and Liverpool. So he’ll be doing one soon, then.
Arsenal and Spurs are sniffing around Nice and Ivory Coast midfielder Jean Michaël Seri.
Port Vale have followed Norman Smurthwaite’s resignation as chairman by appointing Michael Brown as manager.
And the right sulk on over there belongs to Queen’s Celtic boss Brendan Rodgers, who can’t get his noggin round Scott Brown failing to make the PFA Scotland Player of the Year shortlist. “I look at [N’Golo] Kanté down south as a central midfield player and I think he got the player of the year award down there and I certainly think that Scott Brown is worthy of at least being a nominee,” he trilled. “He is the most influential player in Scottish football.”
Age will not wither Him, declares Jacob Steinberg after His electric hat-trick-scoring performance against Atlético.
“Broom-wise, though, the newness or otherwise of Gianni has always reminded me of that famous Only Fools and Horses scene when Trigger declares mistily that he’s had the same broom for 20 years, before mentioning that it’s had 17 new heads and 14 new handles.” Marina Hyde on Fifa overlord Gianni Infantino.
Celta may be competing in their first European semi-final when they face Manchester United in Big Vase on Thursday, but they know how to bother the likes of Barça, reports Sid Lowe, who reckons few teams in Spain have been better to watch this term.
Monaco’s Benjamin Mendy has bloomed into one of the finest full-backs in Europe. Not bad for someone whose Sliding Doors moment could instead have seen him join Sunderland four years ago, writes Paul Doyle.
This week’s edition of The Knowledge gets in a lather about players with the same goalscoring consistency at all their clubs. Plus: goals and nets on badges and more non-league European heroes.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
On Tuesday night at Fenway Park, Adam Jones received a standing ovation from the Red Sox fans during his first at-bat. It wasn’t an entirely spontaneous act, but rather an orchestrated “mea culpa” from the Red Sox organization to the Orioles outfielder, who was the target of racial slurs from a section of fans the previous night. It was a nice gesture, coupled by apologies from both the organization and the city itself, but the truth is that Monday’s incident has raised pressing issues that won’t be settled by a symbolic act.
For starters, for many, it wasn’t shocking that this incident happened at Fenway Park. New York Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia has mentioned that the only place he’s “been called the N-word” was in Boston (he emphasized that this was before his time with the Yankees). He then added, referring to other African-American MLB players, “We know. There’s 62 of us. We all know. When you go to Boston, expect it.” Current Red Sox starter David Price has said that he received racially-motivated taunts at Fenway, as has retired Minnesota Twins outfielder Torii Hunter.
It’s also not surprising that these comments have been received with skepticism from Red Sox fans. There’s a feeling among locals that Boston often gets unfairly vilified as being uniquely bigoted when racism is a universal, omnipresent issue in this country. The recent local backlash about Saturday Night Live’s Michael Che calling Boston “the most racist city I’ve ever been to,” is a perfect example of that defensiveness.
Yes, there are many whose vision of Boston’s racial history dates back to the 1970s and the most turbulent years of the busing crisis. Yes, there are those that believe that the actions of a relatively small number of bigoted, drunken numbskulls represents an entire community. No, none of this is particularly fair to Boston or the majority of those who live here, but all of it is quite besides the major point of this discussion: Boston still needs a lot to do in order to escape the shadow of its own racial legacy.
Let’s start with Fenway Park itself, which lies on 4 Yawkey Way, a street named in honor of Tom Yawkey, owner of the Boston Red Sox from 1933 until his death in 1976. During his tenure, Yawkey earned a reputation for being one of the most racist figures in baseball even by the standards of the times. Yawkey’s beliefs were the main reason why the Red Sox were the last of the pre-expansion MLB clubs to integrate. They did not have an African-American player on the major leave roster until calling up Pumpsie Green in 1959, over two years after Jackie Robinson retired. There’s a reason that the Boston Celtics’ Bill Russell, the winningest player in Boston history, still keeps his distance from the city where he became a legend (he once described the city as “a flea market of racism”).
And yes things have gotten better, and yes the vast majority of Red Sox fans are not racists, and yes Boston has grown more diverse over the last few decades. Still, recent census results show that it remains one of the most segregated cities in America. When fans say that the Jones incident doesn’t reflect the city they know, it’s not that they’re being untruthful, it’s that what they know might be an entirely different city than what others’ know.
It’s not just the city that deals with segregation, it’s also the sport itself. What happened on Monday in Boston was particularly harmful for baseball, which is desperately seeking more involvement from the African American community. Maybe the most telling portion of Sabathia’s quote about Boston was where he mentioned “there’s 62 of us,” effectively casting the entire population of black baseball players as an entirely too small club. Jones himself has pointed out that “baseball is a white man’s sport,” with African Americans making up 7.1% of the MLB population. There’s a wide variety of reasons for this, but incidents like Monday will only hurt the perception of baseball being behind the times and potentially unwelcoming to certain groups of players.
In other words, this incident is probably something both Boston and the MLB would prefer to just move away from as quickly as possible. They might have gotten their wish. After the orchestrated standing ovation, the story of the Red Sox/Orioles game became Red Sox pitcher Chris Sale throwing behind Orioles third baseman Manny Machado and Machado’s subsequent post-game rant. While pitchers throwing at batters remains a much less heated topic of conversation than racism in the sport, it’s one that’s far less uncomfortable for all involved.
Roma have said that Francesco Totti will retire at the end of the season, 24 years after he made his first appearance for the Giallorossi.
The 40-year-old midfielder, who has made more than 600 appearances for the club since his debut in 1993, has made only one start in Serie A this season for the coach Luciano Spalletti having been awarded a one-year extension in 2016.
Speaking at a press conference on Wednesday, the club’s new sporting director, Monchi, confirmed that this would be Totti’s last season as a player but hinted that he could work closely with the former Italy international once the World Cup winner hangs up his boots.
“In terms of Totti, I already knew that there was an agreement with the club that this would be his final year as a player, then he’d start as a director,” Monchi said. “Francesco is Roma, I want to be as close to him as possible. I’d love to learn even 1% of the huge amount that he knows.”
Totti’s final game will be on Sunday 28 May against Genoa at the Stadio Olimpico. He has won two Serie A titles as well as the Coppa Italia and Supercoppa on two occasions each during his 24 years with Roma.
Appearing for his country at all levels from under-15, Totti scored nine goals in 58 senior appearances for Italy before his retirement from international football in 2006, after winning the World Cup in Germany.
Totti, who did not comment on Wednesday and has not confirmed himself that he is ending his career at the end of the season, came on as a substitute in Roma’s 3-1 derby defeat against Lazio on Sunday. After the game, when asked whether that had been his last derby, the veteran midfielder said that it was not up to him and that “other people” were making those claims.
Mauro Baldissoni, Roma’s general manager, had told reporters before kick-off that Totti has a six-year contract to serve as a club director waiting for him, “so he’ll get to live many more derbies, only they’ll be off the pitch”.
Monchi, meanwhile, has confirmed his interest in signing Atalanta’s 20-year-old Ivory Coast midfielder Franck Kessié, who has also been tracked by Chelsea, Everton and Milan.
“I want to sign players who are good and who are hungry to win,” he said. “Age doesn’t matter. Kessié is a great player who we’re following and who I already knew about. It’s a possibility, there’s not much more to say.”
It’s looking very much like Maria Sharapova will return to Wimbledon this summer in a very British embrace but Ilie Nastase, the new vilain du jour, need not bother queueing up.
The All England Club still hopes the Russian will be the architect of her own resurrection at Madrid, Rome and the French Open before it needs to decide, but hinted as strongly as decorum would allow on Wednesday that there ought to be no moral impediment to her coming back to a tournament where she announced her arrival in 2004 by beating Serena Williams in the final.
Dancing around the hottest subject in tennis, the club chairman, Philip Brook, said a sub-committee headed by Tim Henman would decide on 20 June if she needed to be offered a wildcard, although, judging by her return from a 15-month drug ban in Stuttgart last week, when she reached the semi-finals, Sharapova might need no help.
Nastase, meanwhile, remains very much on the outer. Since his outbursts regarded by most right-thinking people as sexist and racist during Great Britain’s Fed Cup tie against Romania two weekends ago, the 70-year-old former world No1 has fought a losing battle to convince the tennis community of his naivety and innocence.
Brook said: “What he did, I think we have to say his actions were not very good and we condemn them. In terms of an invitation to the royal box, he’s not going to receive an invitation.”
Pressed on whether or not he could get through the gates at Wimbledon, the chief executive, Richard Lewis, noted that because of his suspension by the ITF, Nastase would not be allowed on site. “If he is suspended, and we noticed him, he would be stopped,” Lewis said.
Nastase did not waste much time in responding: “If they are going to be so small-minded about it, there’s nothing I can do … if they consider it normal to deny someone the chance to watch tennis matches, then that’s their problem. It must mean we Romanians are morons.”
As for Sharapova, Brook revealed he would be on the sub-committee, along with Henman and club members Debbie Jevans and Richard Stokes, as well as Martin Corrie and Cathy Sabin, representing the LTA, and the tournament referee, Andrew Jarrett.
Their task would be simpler, of course, if Sharapova, in the absence of Williams, who is expecting her first child, were to win the French Open. However, Brook would only say: “I can’t answer that because I don’t know what we’ll discuss on 20 June but, obviously, we are keeping an eye on what they’re doing. We’re not discussing it with [the French federation]. We’ve not discussed it with them.” But, surely, it would mean she would receive a wildcard if she qualified for the main draw at Roland Garros, especially if she did well, he was asked. “It might do,” he said.
Sharapova’s presence or otherwise has become something of a moral dilemma for the game’s authorities since her wildcard return in Stuttgart, which several players have criticised. Andy Murray, who is one of the men’s Tour’s most vocal anti-drug campaigners, returned to the subject on Tuesday when he said players should only be in the big tournaments by right. As respected as his opinion is around his home tournament, Brook was the acme of diplomacy.
“There are a number of factors taken into account which historically include looking at British players who we think might add interest to the championships,” he said. “We take a look at who’s done well in the lead-up tournaments – those are important to us so we have in the past rewarded success in some of these tournaments by awarding a wildcard.
“And we will also consider what might add interest to the tournament. So, if someone had a very strong playing record here at Wimbledon, that would be a factor in our consideration as well.”
Does the tournament not need Sharapova, though, now that Wimbledon is missing its defending champion, who has won the title seven times?
“The first thing to say is ‘Congratulations, Serena’. It’s very good news and we’re delighted that she’s going to become a mum, and we wish her all the best with it. The other thing to say is that Wimbledon is a very strong event and we’re looking forward to having a very successful and interesting tournament in any event.”
So Sharapova’s long ago victory may win her an invitation? “There are many factors that will be taken into account. It could be one.”
Far easier to pin down were the financial boosts to the 2017 tournament will be. Although Brook would not confirm that Brexit played a part in discussions, he acknowledged that currency fluctuations around the world have always been a factor in determining prizemoney – at Wimbledon and the other major events.
Total money is up 12.5% to £31.6m, with the singles champions each receiving £2.2m, an increase of 10%. “Over the last six years,” he pointed out, “[Wimbledon] has more than doubled the total prize money, from £14.6m in 2011.”
Lewis said security would be tight, but no more than normal, despite recent atrocities on the streets of London.
“There is no specific threat to Wimbledon. We recently saw very tragic events, of course, and we’ll see if there are any adjustments that need to be made in our security, but it’s something that we witness in this day and age, sadly.”
Arsenal and Tottenham have both expressed an interest in signing the Ivory Coast international Jean Michaël Seri this summer, although the Premier League clubs will face competition from Paris Saint-Germain and Barcelona for the highly-rated midfielder.
Seri has been outstanding this season in Nice’s surprise challenge for the Ligue 1 title and impressed again during the 3-1 victory over PSG on Sunday that left Unai Emery’s side third in the table. That has led to reports in France that Emery will make the 25-year-old one of his transfer priorities for PSG this summer amid rumours Marco Verratti could leave Parc des Princes for Juventus at the end of the season, although PSG are likely to face competition from both north London rivals for the player who has two years remaining on his contract.
Scouts from Arsenal and Tottenham have watched the player signed from Portuguese side Paços Ferreira in 2015 several times this season, with his representative understood to have been in London last week to informally meet officials of the two Premier League clubs. Southampton and Leicester have also been linked with an approach for Seri, who has won 12 caps for Ivory Coast.
Nice are believed to want around £20m for a player who has a release clause of €40m (£33m), with Barcelona also interested in the box-to-box midfielder who has scored six goals and laid on nine assists in 31 league appearances this season.
“There are a lot of clubs that follow me. But there is nothing done,” Seri said last week. “If I leave, it will be to join a club where there is a real desire to play football as in Nice. And I’m not going to be on the bench, I’m leaving only if I know I’m going to play.”
Arsenal also have a long-standing interest in Guinea midfielder Naby Keïta, who has so far refused to sign a new contract at German side RB Leipzig. The 22-year-old is also wanted by Liverpool and Bayern Munich, with his current club holding out for a fee in the region of £25m.
Scottish football fans can occasionally be heard to bemoan the loss of the Tennents’ Sixes, an event staged between 1984 and 1993 when, as the name suggests, six-a-side was the order of the day. It was quick, competitive, fun, the attendances were good and terrestrial television stepped forward to provide plentiful coverage. This was at a time, moreover, when football in general wasn’t renowned for breathtaking innovation.
This weekend, golf’s latest attempt to retain relevance in an ever-changing landscape where many fear the sport is being left behind will resonate over two days at the Centurion in St Albans. There must be something about the number six; GolfSixes is the concept coined by the European Tour to let 16 teams of two face each other over six-hole stretches for the biggest chunk of a €1m prize pool. Every player in the field is guaranteed €15,000 for turning up.
The cast list is not outstanding – the Players Championship is a matter of days away – but it need not be. Keith Pelley, the Tour’s chief executive, is perfectly open that this is an experiment towards spectators, broadcast partners and sponsors in order to assess whether such a snappy form of golf has marketable value. Pelley deserves credit on two fronts; he is not for a second claiming GolfSixes are a cure for all golf’s ills and he is, unlike so many who have held prominent golf office before him, willing to try and fail. If GolfSixes does not work but provides the basis for something else, Pelley will regard this weekend as valid.
The format is hardly novel. One of golf’s greatest historic strengths was the ability of players to head out for three-, six- or nine-hole loops as suited them on courses designed for such purposes. The concept of 18-hole strokeplay might now dominate but it was never the be all and end all. GolfSixes teams will face each other in greensomes, again hardly revelatory, but gimmicks lie therein; shot clocks, fireworks, music on the tee, mid-hole interviews and the like. All of which, being blunt, is background fluff. Golf needs no more than its marquee players – the most valuable assets – when seeking to be “cool”.
Sky Sports will argue its investment in golf, most recently via the Open and more routinely through coverage of tours on both sides of the Atlantic, sets them apart as a broadcast outlet for this sport. Yet there are problems which are impossible to ignore where GolfSixes and a wider link to Sky are concerned. The channel takes on a role where it is in danger of thinking it is the tournament, for one. This is fascinating at a time when it has been speculated that Sky Sports’ own wider position is more vulnerable than at any point in the recent past. Where does golf, a high-resource area, sit? As a handy time-filler, sceptics may suggest.
The additions of celebrity commentators such as Vernon Kay and Kevin Pietersen is an attempt to attract a wider core audience but it is woefully transparent. In fact, it is naff. If golf cannot utilise the characters within its own domain, it really does have a problem. “I’m famous and I love golf” shouldn’t be an opening to flirt in and out of broadcasting about it. Lee Westwood adores football; he wouldn’t appear alongside Alan Parry when Chelsea host Manchester United.
More importantly, whatever output Sky and GolfSixes provide is partly pointless when so few people can watch. The chronic absence of this sport on terrestrial television is a very real problem meaning those in charge should already be making plans to at least reintroduce regular TV highlights. Golf needs exposure instead of a scenario where The Masters ends and people forget about it until another major championship.
The European Tour has an existing and long-term agreement with the subscription broadcaster which means the offering of a one-off event to free-to-air would not exactly be cricket but an opportunity has been missed. It is difficult to deviate from the notion that golf on Sky on a Saturday and Sunday will be watched by people who routinely watch golf on Sky on a Saturday and Sunday. With the greatest will in the world, Pietersen’s putting tips or Tinie Tempah blaring out from the 4th won’t change that.
At the weekend, the PGA Tour’s own brand of innovation at the Zurich Classic saw blue chip players miss the cut and serious storm delays to the point where many onlookers had lost interest by the time of its conclusion. The PGA Tour can point to ever-blossoming prize funds and shrug its shoulders, in fairness.
Golf’s myriad issues – and they vary in size, depending on the analyst – are neither particularly complicated nor within the domain of the European Tour. Pelley cannot force private clubs to be more open, he cannot ensure equipment companies don’t charge the earth for their latest driver and he cannot single-handedly chop down the ludicrous time supposedly friendly rounds now take. Accessibility, cost and time all cut to the root of where golf needs surgery.
None of which is to say GolfSixes is an invaluable concept. It just won’t save the sport, as Pelley knows fine well.
Stephen Curry scored 22 points in three quarters of work and the top-seeded Warriors warmed up in a hurry after a weeklong layoff between playoff games, beating the Jazz 106-94, while in Tuesday’s other match-up Isaiah Thomas’ 53 points — the second-highest total in Celtics playoff history — helped Boston beat the Washington Wizards 129-119 in overtime.
Fiddling with the mouth guard he began using after losing one of his front teeth in Game 1, Thomas had nine points in overtime, when the Celtics outscored Washington 15-5. He is the fifth player in the history of the NBA’s most-decorated franchise to score 50 or more points in a postseason game, missing John Havlicek’s team record by one point.
It was also a career playoff best for Thomas. John Wall had 40 points and 13 assists for the Wizards.
“Today’s my sister’s birthday. She would have been 23 today,” Thomas said after the game, as he remembered his sister, Chyna, who died last month in a car crash. “So the least I can do is go out there and play for her.”
In the night’s other game, Draymond Green scored Golden State’s first six points of the fourth quarter and wound up with 17 points, eight rebounds, six assists and two more blocks to bring his remarkable five-game playoff swat total to 19.
Kevin Durant added 17 points on an uncharacteristically cold shooting night at 7 for 17 and had five rebounds and five assists. He missed the middle two games against Portland because of a strained left calf then returned for 20 minutes in Game 4. Zaza Pachulia scored 10 points in 14 minutes.
Mike Brown guided the Warriors as they are missing reigning NBA Coach of the Year Steve Kerr, who wasn’t at the arena as he deals with complications from two back surgeries nearly two years ago. He also missed the last two games of the Portland series.
There was some competition off the court for the Warriors too. Salt Lake City leaders and tourism officials playfully jabbed back at Golden State players who bemoaned the lack of nightlife in Utah, hoping to combat the predominantly Mormon state’s reputation as a boring place where it’s tough to get a drink. 
The campaign comes after some of the Warriors players talked about wishing they were playing the Clippers instead of the Jazz, mostly for the chance to have some time off in Los Angeles rather than Salt Lake City. Andre Iguodala told ESPN that Utah can “lull you to sleep” and make you think, “Man, let’s just get out of here.’” Matt Barnes said declaratively: “There’s no nightlife in Utah.”
.@warriors...seeme concerned about where to cry in your beer. Plenty of places. 1st drink's on me https://t.co/73tQfVtYot #takenote #utpol
The tourism agency in the state capital launched a new website and video on titled, “There’s nothing to do in Salt Lake” that features people enjoying drinks and food at popular breweries, bars, restaurants and sporting venues. The words “no fun” and “no drinking” sarcastically flash across images in the video.
Salt Lake City Mayor Jackie Biskupski tweeted at the Warriors on Monday that they seem “concerned about where to cry in your beer. Plenty of places. 1st drink’s on me.”



I feared the worst for former flyweight champion of the world Lorenzo “Lencho” Parra when I noticed he was scheduled for a six-rounder against a five-fight novice in a leisure centre in Ibiza. My concern deepened when I saw he had weighed in as a junior welterweight. What was he doing: 5,000 miles from home in Venezuela, two years shy of his 40th birthday, fighting for peanuts at 28lbs above his prime weight?
As I sat on the train from Madrid to Valencia I wondered who I might find at the end of the line. Lencho had gone to ground since our initial contact the previous week, so when I arrived into Joaquín Sorolla Station, I dialled his number in hope as much as expectation.
“Hola hermano,” Lencho answered on the first ring. It was a dodgy connection and his accent was as strong as I’ve heard, but I made out the bare essentials of his instructions: “I’m at the general hospital. Come meet me here.”
The hospital? A full 10 days after his fight? I hadn’t been able to find any news about the contest other than that he lost on points, but I hadn’t considered the possibility that he may have endured a beating. I braced myself for the worst.
A short taxi ride later I was at the hospital’s main doors, peering in to see if a convalescing patient might shuffle out in my direction, when a light tap on my shoulder beckoned me to turn around. Lencho wasn’t in the hospital; he just lives beside it.
He looked unscathed from both his recent trip to Ibiza and the previous three decades spent in the ring. He is as small as you would expect a flyweight champion to be, but a stockiness built on middle-aged heft has emerged and precipitated that unwanted climb through the divisions. I notice a scar curling around the corner of his right eye but he later tells me that was from a clash of heads on the football pitch rather than anything in the ring.
Lencho takes me to his local bar and begins his story. “I wanted to be a footballer. That was always my thing. And I’m a good footballer, good enough to play at state level in my country. My older brother was the boxer. He was scheduled to fight for the world title on 16 February 1989. But on 31 December 1988, there was some trouble on the street and they slit his throat and killed him. I was only 10 but I told my mother I was going to win a world title for Alexis. I was going to fulfil his dream.”
Fifteen years later, he did just that when he claimed the WBA flyweight belt. He did it the hard way too, defeating the unbeaten champion Eric Morel in the Puerto Rican’s his own backyard. “He was 33 and 0. Unbeatable, like a Mayweather figure of the day. My manager didn’t want me to take the fight so I told him he could keep my entire purse if I lost. I was so hungry to win and knew I could beat him. I knew I could slip his punches and counter him. And I did.”
That was Lencho’s first fight outside Venezuela but he soon became used to fighting on the road as five successful defences were made in Japan, South Korea and France. A meniscus injury and subsequent surgery stalled his career in 2006 and, when he returned in March 2007, the 15-month layoff had taken its toll. Unable to will his body anywhere close to the measly 112lb limit, he lost his title on the scales in Tokyo. The following day, Takefumi Sakata, a fighter he had already beaten twice, stopped him in the third round.
Every champion loses eventually and few flyweights can stay in that division for their entire career. Presumably, after six lucrative defences of his title, he had enough bolívares in the bank to guarantee a comfortable life in Machiques? “The most I ever got paid for those big fights was $60,000. Expenses then came out of that. Then I bought a house for my family and started a business. It was decent money in Venezuela, but it still didn’t last long.”
After a year effectively out of action, Lencho needed to get back in the ring. The flyweight division was now a distant memory and making super fly or bantamweight also appeared beyond him, so the WBA ushered him into a match with their 122lb champ, the formidable Panamanian Celestino Caballero, in June 2008. At 5ft 11in and with a 73.5-inch reach, Caballero was a giant at the weight and he towered over the 5ft 4in Parra. But Lencho was a smart, tough boxer and the contest was still alive going into the final round.
“I was enjoying the fight,” he tells me now as we reminisce. “It was hard work, but one judge had it even and another had me only one round down so I stood up for the 12th ready to give everything. Then the referee suddenly pulls me to one side for the doctor to look at my jaw. I’m moving it, opening and closing it, saying I’m fine, but they decided to stop it. It was swollen but I knew it wasn’t broken. I broke my jaw in the third round of my first fight with Sakata so I know what that’s like.”
What is it like to fight with a broken jaw against an elite opponent for nearly half an hour? “It’s fine,” Lencho says with a puzzled look on his face. “You just get on with the fight.” So you barely even realise? “Oh, you definitely realise! But you just suck it up and keep going.”
Two low-key domestic fights in the next two years did not keep him sharp, but such was Lencho’s standing in the sport that the WBO were happy to push him straight into a super bantamweight eliminator against future four-weight world champion Jorge Arce. The pair battled to a draw and impressed enough for both to be given subsequent title shots: Arce against Wilfredo Vazquez Jr. for the WBO super bantamweight crown and Lencho against Anselmo Moreno for the WBA bantamweight belt. Arce took his chance, but Moreno was in his prime and Lencho became his eighth successful defence.
“Eight months later I get a call,” he continues. “It is half-time in the final of a football tournament I am playing in. My manager is telling me they want me to fight Arce again and it’ll be decent money. ‘When?’ I ask. ‘Next week,’ he says. I start laughing because I’m about 10kg overweight. But I still took the fight.”
Took it, and lost it, stopped in the fifth when one of Arce’s vicious body shots dug a little deeper than usual into his substantial midriff. Fast approaching his 35th birthday, Lencho knew his time was up as he pulled the gumshield from his mouth before the referee’s count reached 10.
That should have been that. And it was for four years. But last summer, Lencho returned. Weighing in as a junior welterweight, a full two stone heavier than his glory nights, he eked out a draw against a 2&8 fighter and then stopped a debutant in the fourth. Then, with his country self-destructing around him, he looked to Europe.
“My plan is to bring my wife and four children here this summer. Venezuela is complicated now. It’s a very dangerous place. I’ve seen people killed for nothing. I saw a bullet go through a policeman on a motorbike and kill the child sitting in front of him. Right in front of my business. The gunman stopped, pointed the gun at me, perhaps recognised me and then rode on. I want to bring my family to Spain where it is safe.”
One thing boxing doesn’t lack is middlemen and it wasn’t long before Lencho was shipped over. The day after he arrived in Spain last December, the woefully out of shape former world champion clambered between the ropes to face an elite European-level fighter in Juli Giner. Already this year he has fought three more times, including a tune-up for Andoni Gago before the Basque took on Lee Selby in the O2. Lencho has lost each time: he is just an opponent now.
With plenty of winks and nods, Lencho describes his new role. The expectations on his performance may vary, but he is now fighting to lose. It is that or don’t get paid. He says he toys with opponents and has literally held one up after catching him cleaner than he should have.
He smiles proudly when I bring up the competitive eight rounds with Gago in Bilbao. “He expected a very easy night,” says Lencho. “He was mistaken.” But the smile soon fades. Lencho’s current status reflects his finances rather than his ability. He is reluctant to go into details but I know a middleman has been withholding the majority of his already light purses. He’s a proud man but it is clear he is struggling.
There is light at the end of the tunnel, however, in the form of a link up with MGZ Promotions, a Basque outfit who are one of the more reputable boxing promoters and managers in Spain. Iñigo Herbosa, one of the team at MGZ, tells me they are keen to help Lencho in the short term by finding him decent fights and in the long term by moving him into a training role.
“Lencho is a really good guy,” says Herbosa. “He’s an honest and hardworking man so he deserves to be treated well. He impressed us against Gago. We’ll find him good match-ups and then, because of his character and knowledge, employ him as a trainer.”
As if on cue, a teenage boy enters the bar and greets Lencho with an elaborate handshake. They discuss times and places animatedly, then the kid leaves with an extra bounce in his step. “One of my students,” Lencho explains. “I’m teaching him some things in the gym or just in the park. He came to me looking like his dad [the rotund punter standing at the bar] and now look at him. If nothing else, I’ll get him healthy.”
Lencho will be a good trainer when his time comes but he’s not ready to hang up his gloves just yet. Once a champion, always a champion and he is still hungry for wins in the ring. “I’ve never taken too many punches in my career. I was always gifted at slipping punches or softening their impact. So I’ll fight until I’m 40 – that’s two more years. All I said to MGZ was, I want to be a winner once more. Please just let me fight to win again.”
• This article appeared first on The Balls of Wrath• Follow The Balls of Wrath on Twitter
Benjamin Mendy limped off during Monaco’s win over Toulouse on Saturday but probably felt he dodged a metaphorical bullet all the same. And not just because the injury is unlikely to prevent him from playing in Wednesday’s Champions League semi-final against Juventus.
But also because this weekend Mendy got a stark reminder that instead of closing in on the Ligue 1 title and preparing for a mouthwatering clash with Juventus in the last four of Europe’s showpiece competition, he might have been chewing over a pitiful relegation from the Premier League. If, that is, he had joined Sunderland, which he was about to do four years ago until a last-minute twist changed his destiny.
There is no telling, of course, exactly how different the fates of Mendy and Sunderland would have been if that deal had been completed. Perhaps he would have proved to be the one successful purchase that Sunderland made during the summer of 2013, when the director of football, Roberto De Fanti, oversaw 13 signings, only one of whom, Vito Mannone, remains at the club.
Or maybe the potential of Mendy, who was a week shy of his 19th birthday when he flew to the north-east with the intention of completing a transfer, would have been stunted at the Stadium of Light and he would have been written off as just another dud in a batch of ill-judged recruits, along with barely-remembered characters such as Valentin Roberge, Jozy Altidore and Cabral.
The chances are, however, that Mendy would not now be one of the most thrilling and coveted full-backs in Europe, a France international with an opportunity of completing a brilliant double with Monaco before deciding whether to join Real Madrid, Chelsea, Manchester United, Manchester City or one of the other elite clubs who now see in him what Sunderland saw four years ago.
That is because Mendy is a player who needed strong guidance to help harness his potential and become so important. Maybe he would have got that from Paolo Di Canio and then Dick Advocaat, Sam Allardyce and David Moyes. But he definitely got it from Monaco’s manager, Leonardo Jardim, and, before that, from Marcelo Bielsa at Marseille, the club who persuaded him not to join Sunderland.
At first many Marseille observers thought the club had made a mistake by buying Mendy from Le Havre. Or, at least, there was a widespread view that the youngster was being exposed to the top flight before he was ready. His attacking prowess was undeniable but his defensive nous was almost non-existent.
He was not helped by the fact that the midfielder in front of him, Dimitri Payet, had little inclination to help him. Opponents tended to have a field day down Marseille’s left flank and Mendy was regularly lambasted by impatient fans. “It fascinates that Mendy is still a regular starter,” said the former Marseille left-back Eric Di Meco in January 2014. “They’re killing him.”
Bielsa arrived as Marseille manager in May 2014 and began giving Mendy better tuition and protection. The player improved. Last season, however, instability at Marseille, who went through three managers in the campaign, coincided with a patchy season from Mendy.
But in the 90 Ligue 1 and Champions League matches that he played by the age of 21 he showed enough to convince Monaco that he fitted in well with their policy of investing in young players with big potential. The club bought him from Marseille for around £11m last summer.
It has proved a perfect match.
True, there was a moment in December when Mendy showed he still has a thoughtless streak. He was suspended for five matches after blowing a fuse and booting Lyon’s Corentin Tolisso in an off-the-ball outburst; then, during Ligue 1’s winter break and while he was still banned, Mendy took a holiday to Brazil and decided to tweet a photo of himself ambling around Rio in a Marseille jersey. Some Monaco fans were outraged; Mendy laughed it off and suggested anyone getting het up about what he wears should learn to be as laid-back as he can be, tweeting that they were “making a lot of noise about nothing”.
Some fans responded that it would have been easier to tolerate him wearing a Marseille shirt if his ban did not mean that he would miss a potentially difficult assignment to the home of that very team. As it turned out, Monaco won 4-1 at the Stade Vélodrome without Mendy. But when he became available again he went straight back into the team. Because, yes, Mendy and this new and improved version of Monaco have proved a perfect match.
Jardim is the ideal coach to hone Mendy’s defensive wherewithal. And Mendy is the ideal left-back for a habitually cautious coach who went into this campaign under pressure to develop a more adventurous style of play. That mission has certainly been accomplished. Monaco have become one of the most exciting teams that France has ever seen.
Their 95 goals in 35 domestic league matches so far is more than any club has managed at this stage of a Ligue 1 season since Racing Club de Paris in 1960. Even Paris Saint-Germain cannot keep up.
It seems an anomaly that Mendy is not one of the 15 players to have scored for Monaco so far this season. But he is an essential part of the team’s attack, with his constant raids forward unhinging defences and providing regular chances for the likes of Kylian Mbappé and Radamel Falcao and even for Djibril Sidibé, the right-back who was signed from Lille at the same time as Mendy joined from Marseille and has made a similar impact.
Tottenham Hotspur can attest to that, as Sidibé headed Monaco’s opening goal against them in November – from a cross by Mendy – and then laid on the second in a 2-1 victory for the French team. Sidibé may not be fit to face Juventus.
But Wednesday’s match still promises to be a spectacular meeting between a side with one of Europe’s most committed defences and a Monaco team that attacks from everywhere, notably from left-back.
The reigning Indian league champions, Aizawl FC, have threatened to go on hunger strike if they are denied an opportunity to defend their I-League title next season, with a club statement even threatening to “fast unto death” if they are not reinstated.
Last year, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) opted to introduce a new three-tier system for the 2017-18 season, with Aizawl not part of the initial plans for the top division, which will be known as the Indian Super League.
That prompted the club based in the Mizoram district in northeast India to write to release a statement threatening action if their formal request to be included is not accepted.
“If no positive response is received from AIFF, the club will approach central sports minister, prime minister of India and also president of AFC,” said the statement.
“If these steps are failed, the club will have no other choice but will resort to world-wide protests, sitting demonstration near AFC/Fifa offices, picketing of AIFF office, mass hunger strike/fast unto death protest.”
On Monday, Aizawl’s owner, Robert Royte, admitted he expected the AIFF to include Aizawl in the ISL. “How can the reigning champions be relegated to second division? We will not accept it, no chance. We will be playing in the Asian competitions. How silly will it be if India’s champions are playing in Asia but, back home, they are not allowed to play in the main league?” Royte said.
A senior AIFF official quoted by the Indian Express said the matter would be discussed at a meeting on Saturday.
“Aizawl’s win has put the federation in a tight spot. Things should be clearer after Saturday’s meeting. Until then, it’s tough to speculate what will happen,” he said.
Aizawl FC has submitted its formal claim to AIFF to continue in the top league... pic.twitter.com/Z43cHEV0OA
“During my afternoon coffee break Wiki-crawl, I came across the career statistics of Robbie Earle,” mails Joe Ward. “Port Vale: 294 appearances and 77 goals; Wimbledon: 284 appearances and 59 goals. Now, it’s not a million miles away that his record for both clubs would be the same. Has anyone got anything close to identical – and significant – statistics for clubs in their career?”
It would be particularly weird if any player had identical records – we haven’t found one yet, although the challenge is still there for any readers with enough time on their hands. There are players with eerily similar records, mind.
Here’s Lee Wall: “Peter Beardsley scored 46 goals in 131 games for Liverpool (0.35 goals per game). He then went for a second spell at Newcastle and scored 47 goals in 129 games (0.36). Lee Chapman scored 63 goals in 149 games at Sheffield Wednesday (0.42) then 62 goals in 139 games at Leeds (0.44). John Hartson scored 11 goals in 54 games for Luton (0.20), 14 goals in 54 games for Arsenal (0.26) and 14 goals in 51 games for Wales (0.27).”
Lee then points us in the direction of a couple of former Spurs strikers. “Jürgen Klinsmann scored 29 in 65 for Monaco (0.44), 31 in 65 for Bayern (0.47) and 30 in 59 for Spurs (0.50). Chris Armstrong scored 13 goals in 60 games for Wrexham (0.22) between 1989 and 1991, he then went back to Wrexham between 2003 and 2005 and scored 13 goals in 59 games (0.22).”
“While not an exact match, Steven Naismith scored 29 goals in 102 appearances for Kilmarnock and 28 goals in 98 appearances for Rangers (both a 0.28 return),” writes Simon Barr. “Another close but not exact match: Roy Makaay scored 79 in 133 for Deportivo la Coruña (0.59) and 78 in 129 for Bayern Munich (0.60). Finally, Luis Suárez played 27 for Nacional and 29 for Groningen returning 10 for each (0.27 and 0.29). He played 110 for both Ajax and Liverpool, returning 81 and 69 (0.73 and 0.62).”
Jack Cummins flags up Niall Quinn as a model of consistency in front of goal. “Quinn notched 66 goals in 204 league appearances for Manchester City (0.32), and 61 in 203 league appearances for Sunderland (0.30). And, while this may be slightly bending the rules, the ever-young Jermain Defoe scored 43 Premier League goals in 139 appearances after moving to Tottenham in 2004 (0.31), before bagging 47 in 135 appearances during his second period with the club (0.35).”
And here’s Kevin Baron, who has been busy crunching the current Scunthorpe United manager’s career goalscoring stats. “I present to you the spookily close goals per game figures of a one Graham Alexander. To one decimal place the averages are all 0.1 per game, with the exception of his time at Preston (0.2 per game). Joe’s query, while not necessarily about the averages themselves, but more to do with the near-identical nature of numerator and denominator can be applied in this case as the following table showing Alexander’s senior career appearances can confirm.
“His time spent at Scunthorpe, Luton and Burnley shows very similar figures (which the averages then agree). I hope this quality find can be accepted as a worthwhile answer, and I thank Mr Ward greatly in allowing me to use up incredible amounts of work time while browsing the internet instead of ‘analysing data’.”
Alexander, a penalty master in his playing days, slotted home 78 penalties across his 17-year career in all competitions, with 65 of those coming in league competitions. Some brief number-crunching tells us that 60.74% of Alexander’s league goals (107 in total) came from 12 yards. He found the net in his final game too – for Preston in 2012 – scoring a 90th-minute equaliser at home to Charlton, from open play this time. Might his record from the penalty spot explain his goalscoring consistency?
“Further to your piece about Welsh non-league clubs starring in Europe – somehow you forgot Borough United,” exclaims William Hogg.
“They were founded in 1952 from the amalgamation of two other clubs and played out of Llandudno Junction. They won the Welsh Cup in 1963 and were in the Welsh League North (which featured Rhyl’s reserve side, so that would be at least tier six in the pyramid) when they played first Sliema Wanderers of Malta (won 2-0 over two legs) and then Slovan Bratislava of what was then Czechoslovakia (lost 0-4 over two legs). That match against Sliema was in fact the first time a Welsh club had won in Europe. They played both home matches at Wrexham’s Racecourse Ground, their own ground having been deemed unsuitable for European football. Sadly Borough United are no more. In 1967 they were evicted from their ground by the Irish religious order who owned it and then kicked around local Welsh football before finally folding in 1969.”
“After a random work conversation led to deconstructing the old v new Sheffield Wednesday club badges, we got on to the subject of how there seem to be lots of club badges with footballs, but none with goals, goalposts or nets,” writes Michael Pilcher. “As the ultimate aim of the beautiful game is to stick the ball in the goal as often as possible, it seems strange these aren’t reflected more. Our Google work yielded no success – can anyone provide examples of club badges with depictions of goals?”
“I’ll probably not be the only one to email with this example, but Aberdeen FC’s badge from 1979 onwards consisted pretty much of nothing but a side-on image of a goal,” responds Derek Robertson. “It came complete with stanchion and a ball that had crossed the line – of course, the shape of the goal, and the place of the ball in the middle, made it look like an A. While the club crest now includes some additions, at the heart of it is the same image. More information about the design can be found here.”
A little bit of digging on our part reveals Scottish League One club Peterhead at least have a net visible in their badge. Although given the proximity of a fish and a ball to it, it may be a fishing net as much as a goal net. And Liam McGuigan points us in the direction of La Liga founding members and current fourth tier also-rans CE Europa. “They have the ubiquitous ball on their crest, along with a goal. Well, either that or it’s a subs’ bench.”
“Keiron Cunningham was recently sacked by St Helens after a bad run of form in Super League. He was a club legend and as such had a statue stood outside Saints’ Langtree Park. Has a football manager ever been sacked by a club who have already honoured them with a statue?” asks our very own Gregg Bakowski.Ozer Dindjer points us in the direction of Alex de Souza, the Brazilian playmaker for Fenerbahce, who had a fan-funded statue unveiled outside the club’s stadium on 25 September 2012. Less than two weeks later, on 1 October, his contract was terminated by the club. “Very controversial, to this day!” fumes Ozer. So inflammatory in fact that fans burned T-shirts with the chairman Aziz Yıldırım’s face on them outside his house upon hearing the news.
Can we find a sacking of a player or manager who has a club-funded statue though? If so drop us a line at knowledge@theguardian.com.
“A friend of mine was telling me the other day about an Icelandic referee who disallowed a goal because his teeth had fallen out,” said Jon Bennett in 2008. “Am I right to assume he was talking bobbins?”
Technically Jon would be right to assume that – but only because the referee in question was actually Danish. Henning Erikstrup had been preparing to whistle for full time on Noerager’s 4-3 win over Ebeltoft when his false teeth fell out of his mouth and on to the pitch. Ebeltoft equalised moments later, only for Erikstrup, who had not even seen the goal, to immediately rule it out on the grounds that he would have whistled before it went in. “I had to get my teeth back before some player put his big foot on them,” parped the official afterwards when asked why he didn’t just whistle without his teeth in.
“While discussing the freefall of York City recently, we realised how contradictory the planned move to the York Community Stadium would be,” begins Kevin Francis. “The club left Fulfordgate for Bootham Crescent to be closer to the urban population and the train station. The move to the Community Stadium will see the opposite happen. With many other clubs relocating to the outskirts of their cities (a recent trip to Brighton nicely illustrated this) we pondered: which team’s ground is the furthest from their town/city centre?”
“In most seasons, teams end up playing one another two or three times in quick succession due to cup ties or replays coincidentally falling close to league games,” writes Tim Postins. “We know there are tiny leagues around the world where sides play each other every week, but what’s the shortest time that has elapsed between home and away league fixtures being played between two professional teams during a season?”
“In the five Premier League games last Saturday, all home teams failed to win but perhaps more surprisingly they all failed to score a single goal among themselves. Has this ever happened on a single day of league football, in the Premier League or elsewhere?” asks Aanu Adeoye.
“The last six winners of Derby County’s Player of the Season award – Craig Bryson for 2012 and 2014, Richard Keogh for 2013 and 2016, Will Hughes for 2015 and Scott Carson for 2017 – are all still with the club,” mails James Murton. “If we can take such awards as a yardstick, can any other teams boast a better record for holding on to their ‘best’ players?”
The only possible quibble about the excellent card at Ascot on Wednesday afternoon is that there are just six races, but since admission to the grandstand for the “Discover Ascot” raceday is actually free, it’s not a complaint that holds much water and there are likely to be runners in at least three of the Group 1 events at next month’s Royal meeting with form in one of the contests.
The Sagaro Stakes is a traditional trial for the Ascot Gold Cup and most of today’s eight runners are also engaged in Royal Ascot’s showpiece. These include Harbour Law, last year’s unexpected St Leger winner, who is shortest of today’s field in the ante-post Gold Cup betting at a top price of 20-1 and will be ridden by Tom Queally for the first time as George Baker continues his recovery from a serious injury sustained in a fall in Switzerland in February.
Harbour Law made a winning start to his three-year-old season in early May last year, but that was in a maiden race at Salisbury and today’s Group 3 is a rather different proposition. Pallasator, twice a runner-up at Group 2 level last season, is currently the favourite, but this could be the right time to take a chance on Nearly Caught (3.10), the only horse in the field who sets the pace as a matter of course. He took a decent renewal of the Group 2 Prix Kergorlay from the front at Deauville last August and anything close to that form would make him difficult to reel in.
The Sagaro seems likely to play second fiddle to a very strong renewal of the Pavilion Stakes in terms of highlighting a potential Group 1 winner next month. Clive Cox saddles two very plausible contenders in the 11-strong field, including last season’s impressive Mill Reef Stakes winner Harry Angel, but his 4lb penalty may give Godolphin’s Blue Point (3.45) a useful edge. He received quotes for the 2,000 Guineas after winning the Gimcrack Stakes last August, but even then, his trainer Charlie Appleby was suggesting that he was more likely to be aimed at the Commonwealth Cup and he should move a big step closer to the Royal meeting this afternoon.
Icespire, the favourite for the fillies’ conditions event earlier on the card, is nudging odds-on with some bookmakers after two fancied contenders – Glitter Girl and Kazimiera – were scratched on Wednesday morning. She made a very promising start to her career with a four-length success in a Salisbury maiden last October, but Prosper (2.35) should not be discounted at around 11-2. Roger Varian’s filly has the benefit of a run this season and she ran into a potential Group horse in Son Of The Stars when second in a handicap at Chelmsford City last time out.
Firmament (4.20), the runner-up in a very strong race at Ascot last autumn, could well be the pick of David O’Meara’s two runners in the Paradise Stakes, while on the day’s other cards, the course specialist Bloodsweatandtears (7.35) is worth an interest at Brighton. The nine-year-old has run at a dozen different courses since taking a maiden at Yarmouth as a juvenile back in 2010, but he has only ever won at Brighton and he returns for the first time since October on a very workable mark.
Ascot2.00 Corinthia Knight 2.35 Prosper 3.10 Nearly Caught (nb) 3.40 Blue Point 4.20 Firmament (nap) 4.55 Mister Music
Brighton5.05 Milton Road 5.35 No Not Again 6.05 Tidal’s Baby 6.35 The Juggler 7.05 Alnasl 7.35 Bloodsweatandtears 8.05 Virile
Pontefract2.15 Ventura Dragon 2.50 Mudaarab 3.25 Gambit 4.00 Mittens 4.35 Gin In The Inn 5.10 Suitcase ‘N’ Taxi 5.45 Horsforth
Yarmouth5.20 Orsino 5.50 Bartholomew J 6.20 Frosting 6.50 Commodity 7.20 Harlequin Rock 7.50 Lunar Deity 8.20 Compas Scoobie
Wolverhampton1.20 Maggi May 1.50 Pleasant Surprise 2.25 Inflexiball 3.00 Viola Park 3.35 Ballard Down 4.10 Golden State 4.45 Whispered Kiss 5.10 The Dukkerer
(all times BST)
Lizzie Jones remembers the moment all too well. It is almost beyond belief that Wednesday is the second anniversary of her husband, Danny’s death, following a cardiac arrest during Keighley Cougars’ game against London Skolars in May 2015. The impact from Jones’s death at the age of 29 was felt far beyond the reach of rugby league.
“It still feels like yesterday,” she says. “Two years seems like such a long time and a lot has happened since but it’s not a day I like to think about too much. I like to focus on the happy times we had as a family and not dwell on that most horrible of days.”
Rugby league’s most endearing quality is that it rallies around those who need support: and the sport’s response to such a devastating tragedy has been incredible. In the Jones family’s hour of need, rugby league fans raised thousands of pounds to support Lizzie, plus twins Bobby and Phoebe, who were five months old when their father died.
Yet Jones decided it was only right to give something back. With the Rugby Football League and spurred on by her husband’s death, she set up the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund to try to prevent such a tragedy occurring again. The results have been phenomenal and she is rightly respected for the work she has undertaken.
“My first thought was that I had to not only give something back but do something to make a difference in Danny’s memory,” Jones says. The goal of the fund was simple: to introduce defibrillators at every rugby league club at all levels in the UK. Each defibrillator costs £1,000 and an initial fundraising target of £50,000 will likely be met in the coming months.
Next month, Lizzie – who notably performed an emotionally-charged rendition of Abide With Me at the 2015 Challenge Cup final – is aiming to raise £10,000 when she climbs the Three Peaks in 24 hours with the former Leeds captain Kevin Sinfield.
“We’re well on for the goal,” Jones says. “The reaction to it has been out of this world and every penny goes back into screening, buying defibrillators and ultimately raising awareness. I didn’t want Danny to be just another number; people die and are never spoken about again but this legacy we’re leaving for him ensures he’ll never be forgotten.”
Jones has worked to raise awareness about the devastating effect sudden cardiac arrest can have on seemingly fit athletes. Almost immediately, with the support of the RFL – “who have been fantastic, unreal, incredible” – it was made compulsory for players at professional and semi-professional level to have access to screening to detect undiagnosed heart conditions like the one which took Danny’s life. In many ways, it was staggering those rules were not in place already.
But the changes have been significant. “When Danny played for Wales at international level,” she says, “he didn’t even have access to this. I had those laws changed very quickly and was backed by the RFL but we want to make a change at all levels, not just professionally.
“£1,000 doesn’t sound like a lot but for amateur clubs who work off charitable donations and volunteers, it’s huge. We’ve sent out dozens so far to clubs and our next step is to try to introduce screening for local communities and local clubs.”
Jones’ mission to cement her husband’s legacy and save lives is moving beyond rugby league. The issue of sudden cardiac arrest came into the spotlight again recently with the death of the former England footballer, Ugo Ehiogu: and Jones is working with other sports to raise awareness.
“My local running and cricket clubs have defibrillators now,” she says. “I’ve spoken with football and other sports about getting on board too. Young lads the same age as Danny have been affected in football and it makes us more determined to get working with other sports. Just one person surviving because of the work we’re doing makes it a success and saves someone having to experience what we had to.”
A rugby league player in the Masters version of the game for older players recently suffered a heart problem during a match in West Yorkshire: the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund provided the kit that helped to stabilise him. “We know of people who have fainted, been to their GP because we’re raising awareness and had something diagnosed which has made sure they can be looked after.”
Keighley moved quickly to ensure Jones was remembered by naming their main stand after him but his legacy will run much deeper thanks to the incredible work being done to prevent another young family going through what the Joneses endured two years ago.
Donations to the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund can be made here; details about the National Three Peaks Challenge can be found here.
Lizzie Jones remembers the moment all too well. It is almost beyond belief that Wednesday is the second anniversary of her husband, Danny’s death, following a cardiac arrest during Keighley Cougars’ game against London Skolars in May 2015. The impact from Jones’s death at the age of 29 was felt far beyond the reach of rugby league.
“It still feels like yesterday,” she says. “Two years seems like such a long time and a lot has happened since but it’s not a day I like to think about too much. I like to focus on the happy times we had as a family and not dwell on that most horrible of days.”
Rugby league’s most endearing quality is that it rallies around those who need support: and the sport’s response to such a devastating tragedy has been incredible. In the Jones family’s hour of need, rugby league fans raised thousands of pounds to support Lizzie, plus twins Bobby and Phoebe, who were five months old when their father died.
Yet Jones decided it was only right to give something back. With the Rugby Football League and spurred on by her husband’s death, she set up the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund to try to prevent such a tragedy occurring again. The results have been phenomenal and she is rightly respected for the work she has undertaken.
“My first thought was that I had to not only give something back but do something to make a difference in Danny’s memory,” Jones says. The goal of the fund was simple: to introduce defibrillators at every rugby league club at all levels in the UK. Each defibrillator costs £1,000 and an initial fundraising target of £50,000 will likely be met in the coming months.
Next month, Lizzie – who notably performed an emotionally-charged rendition of Abide With Me at the 2015 Challenge Cup final – is aiming to raise £10,000 when she climbs the Three Peaks in 24 hours with the former Leeds captain Kevin Sinfield.
“We’re well on for the goal,” Jones says. “The reaction to it has been out of this world and every penny goes back into screening, buying defibrillators and ultimately raising awareness. I didn’t want Danny to be just another number; people die and are never spoken about again but this legacy we’re leaving for him ensures he’ll never be forgotten.”
Jones has worked to raise awareness about the devastating effect sudden cardiac arrest can have on seemingly fit athletes. Almost immediately, with the support of the RFL – “who have been fantastic, unreal, incredible” – it was made compulsory for players at professional and semi-professional level to have access to screening to detect undiagnosed heart conditions like the one which took Danny’s life. In many ways, it was staggering those rules were not in place already.
But the changes have been significant. “When Danny played for Wales at international level,” she says, “he didn’t even have access to this. I had those laws changed very quickly and was backed by the RFL but we want to make a change at all levels, not just professionally.
“£1,000 doesn’t sound like a lot but for amateur clubs who work off charitable donations and volunteers, it’s huge. We’ve sent out dozens so far to clubs and our next step is to try to introduce screening for local communities and local clubs.”
Jones’ mission to cement her husband’s legacy and save lives is moving beyond rugby league. The issue of sudden cardiac arrest came into the spotlight again recently with the death of the former England footballer, Ugo Ehiogu: and Jones is working with other sports to raise awareness.
“My local running and cricket clubs have defibrillators now,” she says. “I’ve spoken with football and other sports about getting on board too. Young lads the same age as Danny have been affected in football and it makes us more determined to get working with other sports. Just one person surviving because of the work we’re doing makes it a success and saves someone having to experience what we had to.”
A rugby league player in the Masters version of the game for older players recently suffered a heart problem during a match in West Yorkshire: the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund provided the kit that helped to stabilise him. “We know of people who have fainted, been to their GP because we’re raising awareness and had something diagnosed which has made sure they can be looked after.”
Keighley moved quickly to ensure Jones was remembered by naming their main stand after him but his legacy will run much deeper thanks to the incredible work being done to prevent another young family going through what the Joneses endured two years ago.
Donations to the Danny Jones Defibrillator Fund can be made here; details about the National Three Peaks Challenge can be found here.
James Haskell has delivered a brutally honest assessment of his omission from the British & Irish Lions squad, conceding that a failure to wear the fabled red jersey means he cannot be considered a great of the game but realigning his sights towards appearing at a third World Cup with England in 2019.
Despite Joe Launchbury’s high-profile snub from the Lions, the Wasps director of rugby, Dai Young, believes Haskell was his most unlucky player to miss out, having resurrected his England career under Eddie Jones during last year’s Six Nations and the 3-0 series victory in Australia.
A complicated toe injury and an untimely concussion meant Haskell came into this year’s Six Nations with less than an hour’s game time since that Wallabies whitewash however and for all his endeavour, he was unable to hit his heights of 2016. In his eyes, England’s defeat by Ireland in March played a significant part in his snub but Haskell has accepted his fate and refused to use his injury as an excuse.
“The Lions is the pinnacle of every rugby player’s career. It’s the difference between being a good player and a great player and I obviously wasn’t good enough to do it. That’s the fact,” said Haskell. “It’s something that you want to do but a lot of people, like myself, are always out of arm’s reach. It was not to be really, and there’s nothing I can do about it. I’ve tried my best but I wasn’t meant to be a Lion.
“I thought I played well in the Six Nations and put myself out there. Could I have done any more? Not really. I just wasn’t good enough in [the coaches’] eyes. There are obviously personal preferences and I wasn’t the man to take it on. Excuses might give you comfort at night but it’s down to facts. I was disappointed, went home, spoke to my missus, it was like ‘oh, that’s shit’, and then I went away and thought about it, but I’m done with it now.
“Ireland v England had a massive role to play in it; Peter O’Mahony played his way in. Ross Moriarty played his way in during Wales v England. It’s about peaking at the right time and seizing your opportunity. I obviously failed to do that.”
Like Launchbury, Haskell will instead tour Argentina this summer and considering the number of times his critics have written off his England career, he will take great pride in adding to his 75 caps. Last year Haskell claimed that Jones “reminds me every day that I’m clinging on by my fingertips” and judging by the 32-year-old’s performances, it worked.
Fitness permitting, Haskell remains England’s first-choice openside flanker but Jones has picked a squad for Argentina with an eye on the future. Among the 15 uncapped players are Sam Underhill and the teenage twins Ben and Tom Curry, all of whom will compete for the No7 jersey.
“We want to pick up from a loss with a squad of young players,” added Haskell. “I’m sure there’ll be a lot of ‘hello, I’m James Haskell, my favourite colour’s red’ to get to know each other. It’s a new role for me and I’ve got some competition.
“Sam Underhill is now in the mix, everyone has been talking about him for a while, there’s the Curry brothers, these guys are coming and you have to be refreshed and raise yourself. Long term, I’d love to go to another World Cup. That would be the dream. I’ve had two World Cups [in 2011 and 2015] and they weren’t the best, let’s be honest.
“It’s going to be a full-strength Argentina side in Argentina, where we’re not the most popular. It will be a huge test of character out there. Reputations are on the line.”
It’s an unforgiving business, football management – especially if you’re José Mourinho, the only manager ever to be afflicted by injured players and a full calendar. But, consummate professional that he is, he has somehow found time to cease belittling his defenders for long enough to focus on the shortcomings of his attack. Extensive research and a sophisticated scouting network has unearthed the talents of Kylian Mbappé, news certain to excite fans of Hanson. But reports since suggested that Monaco rejected United’s offer of £85m, or €4 and a saucisson, while others had Monaco denying both the offer and his availability for sale. Because if there’d been one and he were, they’d be certain to confirm it the night before a Champions League semi-final.
And United have also contacted Torino, with the plan of giving them all the money in exchange for Andrea Belotti. Belotti, scorer of 27 goals this season, has a release clause of £84.5m because £84m just isn’t enough, and has doubtless been turned onto the English game by the ostentatious shouting and beguiling humility of Joe Hart.
Down the East Lancs Road, Liverpool are apparently resigned to losing Philippe Coutinho. “Never mind, let’s all have an Isco!” cried Jürgen Klopp, funster that he is, except Isco is quite enjoying himself at the even more puffed-up Real Madrid. But, should they choose to sell him, the nearest equivalents to Ronaldo, Kroos, Modric, Bale and Ramos are surely Origi, Milner, Henderson, Wijnaldum and Lovren.
Liverpool are also keen on Cesc Fàbregas, whom Chelsea will likely replace this summer – ideally with Tiemoué Bakayoko who, it is said, will prefer United provided they qualify him for the Champions League. So, Chelsea it is then. Anyway, Klopp wants Fàbregas at the hub of his latest tactical innovation, soon to be known as gegenchugging.
Back in Manchester, Pep Guardiola has decided to focus on homegrown targets, and as such is keen to, er, sign Kyle Walker from Tottenham. Apparently, Guardiola is very impressed with Spurs’ English core, so given his reticence to develop his own, it might save time to simply offer his job to Mauricio Pochettino.
One man who will be staying at Spurs is Christian Eriksen. Recently, in his official capacity of having once played for them, Frank de Boer urged the player to move to Barcelona, compelling his agent to explain how he prefers not to comment on such matters while preferring to comment on such matters.
In other Spurs news, the club are reluctant to break their transfer record to buy Wilfried Zaha, given his likely absence for roughly 2.88% of each two-year period playing at the Africa Cup of Nations. Well, that or Zaha wants to go to Chelsea. Either way, Spurs will try for Ross Barkley instead, who will endeavour to miss 0 per cent of each two-year period playing get bingoed in a bar.
Anyway, finally for today, how to kick a man when he’s down. At the end of last week and despite his best efforts, Jermain Defoe endured relegation with Sunderland, and now Adam Smith has only gone and told him that he’d fit in perfectly back at Bournemouth. The thoughts of the Mill are with him at this difficult time.
Sarah Storey has already achieved astonishing things: beginning as a teenage swimmer in 1992 before moving to the bike, she has amassed 14 Paralympic gold medals and is set on extending that record at an eighth Games in 2020.
But now Storey has taken on an arguably even greater challenge: persuading government ministers and councillors to take everyday cycling seriously.
As part of British Cycling’s ever-increasing role in promoting cycling as a means of ordinary transport for everyone, as well as seeking medals for a speedy elite, Storey has taken on a role of policy advocate alongside Chris Boardman, another gold medal racer-turned-campaigner.
I ask Storey why she decided to take the role, and her answer is simple: she wants her children to be able to cycle on the roads in safety as they grow up:
I’ve got a little girl who’s going to be starting school, and another one on the way, and I’m trying to make sure we have the opportunity so when my kids are older that’s it’s not as much of a battle as it currently is.
Ministers and officials need to provide much more in the way of cycling infrastructure, to better protect “a group of people who are currently very vulnerable, and not thought of enough”, Storey argues.
Storey says that even as a skilled and hugely experienced rider she is wary of sharing the roads with heavy traffic.
This is in part, she adds, why she and her family – she is married to Barney Storey, who has won three Paralympic golds as a tandem pilot for partially sighted athletes – live in a Cheshire village, from where she commutes to the Manchester velodrome:
I can see why it’s a very daunting prospect when there aren’t segregated cycleways. And even as an experienced cyclist, part of your experience is that you choose where you ride according to the provision for you.
I live in a place where I can go out from my front door, usually, without being daunted by the idea of having to spend the first half hour in traffic.
I know people who live closer into Manchester and have an incident almost on a daily basis because people aren’t educated enough in motor vehicles to the needs of more vulnerable road users.
It’s not about them and us, it’s about sharing a space that wasn’t intended for motor vehicles in the first place, but then motor vehicles became the priority, and now we realise the nation’s health is going the way it is, and that critical space that we have, having more and more vehicles on the road isn’t the answer.
Many commutes are about three to five miles, a distance which is “very, very doable by bike, even for a relative novice”, Storey says, adding: “But it’s the situation on the roads that prevents most people from doing that.”
With local elections in many parts of the UK this week and a general election next month, this was the time to be getting the message across, she says:
We’re going to be making sure that if there is a new government or new ministers, and with the local elections this week, people are made aware of what we have been working on so hard at British Cycling, and that this is a necessity now, not just because of congestion, but also the nation’s health.
One area in particular Storey hopes she can push on is cycling for people with disabilities. She was born with a partially formed left hand and cycles with an adapted bike, and has spent years in Paralympic squads with people racing on trikes, hand cycles and all sorts of other machines.
Storey says she would like to see the issue given more attention:
I’d like to make people aware it’s not just about bikes with two wheels – it’s bikes with three wheels, bikes which have electric provision. Bikes come in all shapes and sizes. They’re very specific about the rules for bikes on the elite side, but when it comes to everyday cycling, any bike goes.
I’m an admirer of the work British Cycling has already achieved on everyday cycling, and Boardman is a great advocate. I think having Storey on board is a fantastic idea – she’s inspirational, eloquent and very likeable.
As a Paralympian, Storey has the somewhat superhuman habit of making her victories seem so straightforward that her rivals occasionally seem to have given up before the wheels start turning. Let’s hope she can have the same effect on government ministers.
Everton’s Aaron Lennon is receiving treatment for a stress-related illness, the club have confirmed. The winger was taken to hospital on Sunday to be assessed after police officers assisted him on a busy road in Salford.
Greater Manchester police said: “Police were called at around 4.35pm to reports of a concern for the welfare of a man on Eccles Old Road. Officers attended and a 30-year-old man was detained under section 136 of the Mental Health Act and was taken to hospital for assessment.”
Everton said in a statement: “Aaron Lennon is receiving care and treatment for a stress-related illness. The club is supporting him through this and his family has appealed for privacy at this time.”
A further statement on Wednesday morning added: “Thank you for all the kind messages for Aaron. We are supporting him through this and his family has appealed for privacy at this time.”
The player’s representatives, Base Soccer Agency, tweeted: “Everyone at Base Soccer sends their support to AaronLennon12 – get well soon and stay strong.”
Lennon, who last played for Everton against Middlesbrough in a goalless draw on 11 February, joined the club from Tottenham for £4m in September 2015. The Everton manager, Ronald Koeman, spoke about Lennon on 6 April when he said “he is not in a physical way to be part of the team”.
The former England striker Stan Collymore, who has suffered from depression, voiced his support for Lennon. “Thoughts and love with Aaron Lennon and his family right now,” tweeted Collymore. “I know that place, and I know he’ll be fine with good support from us all.”
The former chairman of the Professional Footballers’ Association, Clark Carlisle, also offered his support to the his former Leeds team-mate. Carlisle has suffered from mental health issues himself and attempted suicide in 2014.
“Love and blessings to my old teammate Aaron Lennon,” he tweeted. “Nail this now and there’s plenty more left in the tank my friend.”
Lennon, who made his Premier League debut for Leeds aged 16 in August 2003, has won 21 England caps, the last in 2013.
• In the UK, Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14.
Anthony Mundine has made his most audacious claim yet, saying he could become the oldest rugby league player in premiership history. The boxer and former St George Illawarra and NSW State of Origin, who turns 42 at the end of the month, reckons he can set the record for being league’s most senior player, surpassing Billy “Bluey” Wilson, who retired in 1967 at the age of 40.
“I feel that good and that youthful,” Mundine told AAP. “If I can get anywhere up to the speed of what I used to be as a youngster, that could definitely be an option. I want to do things that have never been done. I want to make it possible.”
Mundine said despite being out of the game for 17 years – having left the Dragons and quit rugby in 2000 to pursue a boxing career – it is all about having “the speed, instinct and the football experience”.
“I believe I am capable of it,” he said. “Obviously I would like to go back to the Dragons but I don’t know what their plans are. I will have to try and talk to them. But I am not really thinking of that right now. I just want to train my body and train my mind. I am doing the things I used to do, but I am just doing them better because I am wiser.”
But the two-time boxing world champion says any attempt to return won’t come before a third bout with long-time rival Danny Green. “I haven’t hung the gloves up totally yet,” Mundine said.
Mundine went down to Green in a controversial points decision in Adelaide in February, Green squaring the ledger more than a decade after beating his fierce rival in Sydney in 2006.
Mundine’s camp lodged an official appeal with the Australian National Boxing Federation in the hope of getting the result changed to “no decision”. But the former super-middleweight and middleweight world champion, who previously ruled out a third bout between the pair, says he is keen to settle the score once and for all.
“I am not sure what is happening with that [a rematch] but it could happen,” Mundine said. “If it does, I might have one more to finish as a winner.” He said he was back training once a day, five days a week with the hope of returning to the ring with Green at the end of the year.
“I would like it to happen this year, at the end of the year personally, but it depends on his [Green’s] camp and his team,” he said. “I have shaken the cobwebs out, I feel good, I feel youthful and I feel I could do another five years if I really wanted to.”
Sydney’s dominance of this season’s A-League has been recognised with six Sky Blues named by their fellow players in Professional Footballers Australia’s 2016-17 team of the season.
Unsurprisingly, this week’s Johnny Warren medal winner, Miloš Ninković, makes the list in midfield while Danny Vukovic, who kept a record number of clean sheets during the regular season – and added another one in last weekend’s semi-final – takes his place between the sticks.
Having received the most number of votes, Vukovic was named co-captain of the team, along with Sydney team-mate Alex Brosque, who was included in recognition of his leadership in Sydney’s record-breaking season and features with another Sydney player, Josh Brillante, as part of a seven-man substitutes bench.
“It is an honour to be selected in the team and even more so as captain,” said Vukovic. “Your fellow players know what you have been through and their respect means you have had a good season; that is why these awards mean so much to players.”
In front of Vukovic, Sydney provide three of the team’s back four, with Rhyan Grant, Alex Wilkinson and Michael Zullo complimented by Melbourne City’s Michael Jakobsen.
Ninković is joined by team-mate Brandon O’Neill in midfield with James Troisi completing the trio; Troisi’s Melbourne Victory team-mates Marco Rojas and Besart Berisha get the nod up front alongside Perth striker Diego Castro.
Having secured the Premiers’ Plate with a record points tally and guided his side into this weekend’s grand final against Victory, Graham Arnold was voted coach of the season.
There was no place, however, for the A-League’s joint golden boot winner and young player of the year, Jamie Maclaren. The Brisbane Roar striker did not even make it onto the bench, which was rounded out by Liam Reddy, Jade North, Bruno Fornaroli, Ruon Tongyik and Riley McGree.
Melbourne City’s Tongyik and Adelaide’s McGree were included as Under-20 players in “recognition of the importance of the nation’s most talented young players playing regularly at a young age”, according to PFA chief executive John Didulica.
The stellar squad has amassed 93 goals, 55 assists and 59 clean sheets between them over the course of the season.
PFA team of the season: Danny Vukovic (c) (Sydney FC); Rhyan Grant (Sydney FC), Alex Wilkinson (Sydney FC), Michael Jakobsen (Melbourne City), Michael Zullo (Sydney FC); Brandon O’Neill (Sydney FC), Milos Ninkovic (Sydney FC), James Troisi (Melbourne Victory); Marco Rojas (Melbourne Victory), Besart Berisha (Melbourne Victory), Diego Castro (Perth Glory). Substitutes: Liam Reddy (Perth Glory), Jade North (Brisbane Roar), Josh Brillante (Sydney FC), Bruno Fornaroli (Melbourne City), Alex Brosque (c) (Sydney FC), Ruon Tongyik (Melbourne City), Riley McGree (Adelaide United). Coach: Graham Arnold (Sydney FC)
John Coates says the Australian Olympic Committee’s strong financial position under his presidency could put the country in the frame to host another Games.
As accusations of bullying at the AOC raise questions over his leadership, Coates has spruiked his efforts to establish Australia as a major Olympic political and financial player during his 27-year leadership.
“We are welcome at the highest levels of international deliberations,” Coates, who sits on the International Olympic Committee executive as a vice-president, wrote in an Australian Financial Review column on Wednesday.
But Danni Roche, the incumbent’s challenger at the AOC’s annual general meeting on Sunday, has reiterated her platform of redirecting money to athletes.
Roche will forgo Coates’ $750,000 yearly salary to demonstrate her commitment to athlete funding, while other expenditure will be reviewed. “When sports can’t invest in their future, the risk of losing talented athletes to another sport, or to sport altogether, is real,” she wrote in the AFR.
Coates is concerned his abilities as an administrator have been fogged in an election campaign during which his media manager Mike Tancred stood down pending an investigation into bullying claims by former chief executive Fiona de Jong.
The matter has prompted Roche to call for cultural change at the AOC, beginning at the top. But Coates said the finances of the AOC are in their best shape since it started operations in 1914, which benefits athletes.
Sound investments have enabled the Australia to grow its $88m 2000 Sydney Olympics legacy by eight per cent yearly, he said. It also makes the body the envy of national Olympic committees worldwide, with Coates suggesting Australia was well placed to bid for hosting duties.
“We speak with authority on Olympic bids and selection processes, on gender equality, on protecting clean athletes, on models for reducing the cost of Olympic venues and on relationships with sponsors and the media,” Coates said.
“And when the time comes for Australia to again step forward and ask to be considered to host the greatest event on earth, our confidence, expertise and wisdom will hold us in good stead.”
A breakthrough in the AFL’s long-running pay stoush is imminent, paving the way for several off-contract stars to sign new deals. After months of occasionally testy negotiations, the league and the players’ union are close to sealing a new collective bargaining agreement.
AFL Players Association chief Paul Marsh held meetings with players from the Adelaide-based clubs on Tuesday, with Crows key defender Jake Lever saying he expected the new deal to be endorsed in coming weeks.
“I’ve got full faith in the AFLPA. They’ve been doing a fantastic job over the last year and hopefully it’s done soon,” Lever told FiveAA radio on Tuesday. “Rory Sloane is on the board, and then Tom Lynch and Andy Otten are our advocates. They’ll obviously talk to us, probably within the next week, and then that’s when we’ll vote.”
With the new CBA set to substantially increase player salaries, Lever is one of several off-contract players – along with Western Bulldogs livewire Jason Johannisen and Essendon spearhead Joe Daniher - to have put contract negotiations on hold.
The 21-year-old is certain to have attracted interest from rival clubs but appears likely to stay with the unbeaten Crows. “If it gets done within the next fortnight or week, I’ll obviously speak to my manager,” Lever said.
“To be honest, we haven’t spoke a whole lot over the last two months about it just because we were waiting for the CBA, but we’ll sit down and talk and take things to the club.”
It’s understood the deal could include a 20% increase in the salary cap this season followed by smaller increases over the following five years.
“It’s getting there. I think it’s well-known that our CEO is out physically meeting with the players from all different playing groups,” AFLPA development manager Brett Johnson told SEN radio on Tuesday.
“There’s been good progress made recently, and hopefully we get a really good outcome soon.”
Andy Murray will not be alone on Maria Sharapova’s list of people to step lightly around as she builds a head of steam in her comeback but the world No1, a fierce anti-drugs campaigner, doubts the Russian will have any problems getting into either the French Open or Wimbledon.
Sharapova returned from her 15-month ban with a convincing run to the semi-finals in Stuttgart last week and Murray said on Tuesday: “She is obviously playing well. It looks like there’s a good chance after Madrid or Rome she will definitely be inside the qualification ranking for Wimbledon.
“The French are going to make their decision soon [on 15 May]. It looks like it is only going to be a matter of time before she is in the main competition by right anyway, based on how she played last week.”
He told the BBC: “There is no rule stopping them [offering her a wildcard, as Stuttgart did]. But … there is something to be said for working your way back up. In reality it’s not a six-month or 12-month process. The tournaments are going to do what is best for their event.”
Speaking earlier to reporters at Queen’s, where he will begin the defence of his record fifth Aegon championship title on 20 June on a Centre Court that will seat 9,500 fans after an off-season upgrade, Murray denied his knighthood or world No1 ranking had played a part in his dip in form this year.
“I think that was more like at the end of last year. All that stuff felt a bit different to me. I’m now getting asked about it every week. It’s almost like trying to find a reason for why this year hasn’t been as good as the end of last year but it did not have anything to do with being world No1, in my opinion.
“I haven’t felt different when I go on to the court, I didn’t feel different when I was preparing for the Australian Open as I did in previous years. I really don’t think it has been anything to do with that.”
He added: “Definitely at the end of last year, there was a lot going on. But this year and especially the last few months, I haven’t felt any different or any extra pressure when I go on the court.
“Maybe now when you lose as No1, it’s a bigger story. It feels like each time you lose, it’s treated like more of a surprise. But I have lost early in Monte Carlo before, I’ve lost early in Indian Wells before, I’ve started clay-court seasons badly, I’ve had difficult runs and I also wasn’t No1, so I really don’t think it’s to do with that.”
Murray returned from Barcelona at the weekend just in time to watch his favourite sport but he admitted the experience of seeing Anthony Joshua knocked down before getting up to beat Wladimir Klitschko at Wembley Stadium on Saturday was unnerving.
He was keen to downplay the comparisons between tennis and boxing in terms of courage. “It was obviously an amazing fight, really exciting,” he said. “But, when you’re watching tennis and people say that was an amazing comeback or hugely brave, it’s not really a comparison to what they’re doing.
“Both showed it the whole way through. Joshua was maybe just a bit fresher at the end and produced an amazing finish. Big respect for both of them.”
Murray and Joshua have been friends since they met just before the London Olympics five years ago, when they won gold medals, and they have spoken since about the commitment they need to stay at the top of their sports.
“I think it’s true for any sport. When you listen to him speaking about his own career, he does appear to be very grounded and very aware of where he wants to get to and the best way of doing that.
“Talking to him, I get the sense he has spoken to a lot of people in a lot of different sports. He went out to train with Klitschko [in 2014] just to understand how to run a professional training camp.
“If you’re willing to learn and take on board the advice of people at the top of their sports, you’re going to understand quickly the one common thing is you have to work hard all of the time.
“You can’t be doing six months going out partying and then expect to in a couple of months get yourself in great shape or turn up for the big events only.”
Salford are to launch an internal investigation after the winger Justin Carney was banned for eight matches after pleading guilty to a charge of racial abuse.
The 28-year-old was involved in an incident in the Challenge Cup tie against Toronto Wolfpack and was issued with a charge of verbal abuse based on race/colour by the Rugby Football League’s disciplinary panel.
The hearing was postponed for a week at Salford’s request. Carney pleaded guilty, although he disputed the severity of the charge, at a hearing at the RFL’s Leeds headquarters which took over two hours to reach a conclusion on Tuesday evening.
An independent tribunal found Carney guilty, suspended him for eight games and fined him £300. Salford said that pending a decision on whether Carney will appeal he will now be the subject of a club investigation.
“Justin will undertake an internal investigation into his conduct by Salford Red Devils,” the Super League side said in a statement. “The club takes all disciplinary matters concerning race, creed and religion extremely seriously and embraces the sports strict code of conduct.”
Salford said the tribunal accepted Carney was “not a racist” and that his comments was not meant to be taken in the context they were. “He is grateful that having received several letters of support from within the community both here and in Australia, the tribunal has accepted he is not a racist. He is also grateful for the courtesy and fairness shown to him during the hearing.
“Whilst Justin has admitted using the offending words in an abusive manner, he did not intend his words to be taken in a ‘racial’ context. Justin is an Indigenous Australian and is proud of his Aboriginal heritage. He stands firm on the position that he is not nor has he ever been a racist.”
Carney sat out last weekend’s victory against Widnes, meaning he has already served one game of the ban.
It happens to every player when they accelerate past the wrong side of 30. Suddenly the legs are heavier. The pace starts to go, younger opponents whizz by as though they are riding on invisible motorbikes and the body begins to rebel. The old magic starts to disappear and naysayers line up to say that you’re in the throes of irreversible decline. There are two options. Either you accept the inevitable and learn to live with the surprisingly welcome human reality of growing old. Or you rebel.
Cristiano Ronaldo chose the latter. Bowing down to time simply is not his style, not when there are so many goals still to be scored, awards to win and mirrors to glance at admiringly, and while he might not be as blisteringly quick as he was a year or two ago, Ronaldo shows no sign of slowing down in other ways.
Still so driven, so focused, so utterly and unforgivingly relentless, Ronaldo did not need long to leave his mark on Atlético Madrid at the start of this Champions League semi-final. There were only 10 minutes on the clock when Casemiro sent a bouncing cross into the middle from the right and Ronaldo towered over Stefan Savic, who has matured into a forceful centre-back since his torrid spell at Manchester City, and thumped a low header past the Atlético goalkeeper Jan Oblak.
Even a team as tough and resolute as Diego Simeone’s Atlético were powerless to stop him and Ronaldo’s early goal gave Real control. His second strike, a brutal volley from 18 yards late in the second half, gave Zinedine Zidane’s team precious breathing space. His third with four minutes to go means that they are within touching distance of next month’s final in Cardiff.
Another big match, another Ronaldo hat-trick. It is strange, this eagerness to doubt him. More than anything else, it feels like a dangerous game to write him off bearing in mind the astonishing consistency of his cold ruthlessness in front of goal. Booed by his own fans during Real’s previous Champions League outing at the Bernabéu against Bayern Munich, he shrugged his impossibly broad shoulders and promptly made the most of a couple of generous offside decisions by scoring the hat-trick that sent the German side tumbling out of Europe. It wasn’t a bad night’s work for a busted flush.
The best footballers have always been capable of tweaking and refining their games as the years pass by. Those who fail to adapt struggle to replicate former glories, so criticising Ronaldo for not flying down the wing and tying full-backs up in knots misses the central point.
Real have Marco Asensio, a jinking 21-year-old Spaniard, to weave and scheme on the flanks these days. Marcelo provides wonderful thrust from left-back. Instead of using up his energy on needless endeavours, Ronaldo lurks in other areas of the pitch. He has become a deluxe poacher, an elite goalscorer, and he does his job with devastating efficiency.
There were occasions when Ronaldo crept into the wide areas. Shortly after his first goal, he teased Atlético on the left, his feet twinkling, and he crossed for Karim Benzema to hook his effort just wide. Early in the second half, Ronaldo ripped past Diego Godín on the right and tried to set up Benzema once again.
But his best work is done in the penalty box. Goals are his elixir. Ronaldo began the game by walloping over from 25 yards when he might have passed to a team-mate in a better position. He did not let that put him off. Instead he kept coming back for more, forcing Oblak to make a superb save with a downward header.
Ronaldo drifted out of the game for a while. He is not as pure a player as Lionel Messi, who bends matches to his will for Barcelona. But he was just biding his time. The 32-year-old’s second goal was a swaggering show of force and it took Real closer to their third Champions League final in the past four years.
The second leg is likely to be a formality at the Vicente Calderón. Real are excellent value for the 3-0 lead that they will take across the capital next Wednesday. It was a complete performance from Zidane’s men, who overwhelmed Atlético in midfield and restricted them to few clear chances. An away goal was never on the cards for Simeone’s team, save for the moment when Kévin Gameiro burst behind Sergio Ramos and Raphaël Varane in the first half.
With Ronaldo in this mood, Real will take some stopping. There were no jeers at the Bernabéu this time.
Saracens will rest a raft of key players including Billy Vunipola, Owen Farrell and Maro Itoje from Saturday’s final regular Premiership fixture against table-topping Wasps in Coventry but insist it will not diminish the club’s chances of retaining their title even if they end up playing away in the play-off semi-finals.
While Mark McCall, Sarries’ director of rugby, will not publicly announce his line-up until Friday, it is understood the vast majority of his leading internationals will not feature in a match his side need to win if they want to finish in the top two and claim a home draw. Instead Saracens are looking to keep their leading men fresh for next week’s European Champions Cup final against Clermont Auvergne in Edinburgh.
With 26,000 tickets already sold for this Saturday’s game at the Ricoh Arena, a Wasps victory will ensure a home tie – potentially against Saracens – but McCall says hosting a semi-final at Allianz Park is not his chief priority. “We’ve got to be sensible and make sure we’re at full strength for the games that really matter,” he stressed. “If I thought the home semi-final was all-important we’d probably send a different side down but we don’t believe it is. It would be nice but Exeter and Wasps aren’t in the Champions Cup final and we are. We’ll still send a highly competitive team down there.”
Saracens have six New Zealand-bound British & Irish Lions in their squad but Itoje insists there will be no slackening of intensity for their club as they go in search of the ’double double’ of successive European and Premiership titles. “We get our energy from within so it doesn’t really matter where we play,” said the England forward. “We are not here to sit back, see how it goes and hope. We want to go out there, be proactive, make a difference and impose ourselves on whichever team we are playing. If we don’t [earn a home semi-final] it’s not the end of the world because we’ve done it before.”
Last season, Saracens finished top of the table to secure a home semi-final in which they thrashed Leicester 44-17 to book a Twickenham date with Exeter Chiefs. In 2015, however, they managed only fourth place and defeated Northampton in the last four at Franklin’s Gardens prior to beating Bath in the final.
Nor is Itoje overly concerned by his side’s average performance against Bristol last Saturday when, for once, they fell below their normal high standards. “Traditionally this club has been pretty good at responding to setbacks. Although we won the game, our performance level was very off from what we expect of ourselves,” he said. “We definitely expect to front up this week against a very good Wasps side. Last week wasn’t perfect but sometimes that’s good in the grand scheme of things.”
Itoje, meanwhile, has revealed he momentarily thought he had not been chosen for the Lions tour after failing to hear his name being read out on television during last month’s squad announcement. The 22-year-old was regarded as a certainty to make the squad but, for a second or two, feared he might have missed out such was the noise that greeted Jamie George’s selection in Saracens’ team room.
“It was a crazy day to be honest. When Jamie’s name got read out everyone was screaming and we missed the player who was next, who was Iain Henderson. I didn’t hear and I was thinking: ‘Guys shut up, I don’t want to miss it. If it is me I need to know.’ There was a second [when he thought he had missed out]. Then they read my name out and it was cool.”
As the youngest player selected for the tour, Itoje will be expected to look after the cuddly Lion mascot in New Zealand and, with the squad due to depart in less than four weeks’ time, he is looking forward to the whole experience. “The first tour I followed properly was the 2009 series in South Africa. It was a cool tour, really special.
“To have the opportunity to be part of this tour is incredible and something you aspire to do as a child. Now I have the opportunity to do so I feel really privileged. This is another new experience and I don’t know the dynamics of how it works yet. Hopefully I’ll learn quickly. I’m looking to see how it unfolds.”
Few nicknames are more unsuitable than that with which Mark Selby has been saddled for reasons of rhyming convenience. It’s not that the “Jester from Leicester” is not funny, but the image of him prancing about in a harlequin hat festooned with bells is little short of ludicrous.
Polite and likeable, he is a difficult read and when it’s put to him that his win in last year’s world snooker championship was rather overshadowed by his local football team winning the Premier League on the same night, he couldn’t agree more.
“Yeah, it was,” he says flatly. “At the same time I wasn’t too disappointed because Leicester winning the league … I mean, how many times is that going to happen? I was OK with them taking the limelight away from me being a two-times world champion at the time.”
A three-times champion since beating John Higgins on Monday night, Selby genuinely sounds ever so slightly miffed at having his thunder stolen by the football team he has supported all his life, but can console himself with the belief that things might be different this year.
“Oh, I hope so,” he says, before adding the caveat that he still thinks he won’t get an open-top bus parade. “Leicester’s been good to me. It’s where I was born and bred, where my father brought me up … I’ve got a soft spot for Leicester and they’ve always treated me well.
“I get invited to a lot of dos, I get free tickets to the football, they really look after me, so I’m sure they’ll put some kind of party on.”
In the unlikely event they don’t, one suspects he’ll cope. Selby has long been fabled for a bottomless reservoir of resolve, one which kept him in this year’s final when humiliation loomed: he was behind 6-2 after the first session and that then became 10-4.
He has a stubborn streak, an iron will perhaps forged during a difficult childhood. His mum walked out on the family when he was nine and his father died when Selby was 16.
Is that kind of inner strength something that can be worked on, or is it something people either have or don’t have? “Yeah, I think you can work on it. I think Ding [Junhui] is a prime example,” he says of the Chinese player who took so much beating in a titanic semi-final that Selby conceded he felt “empty” going into the final he eventually won 18-15 against Higgins.
“I think if you look at Ding a few years ago, when people used to get on top of him he sort of used to wilt a little bit and, not give in as such, but sort of stop fighting,” explains Selby. “If you look at him now, since he’s been with Terry Griffiths, Terry’s worked on his mental state.
“I think Terry’s worked on his mental game and it showed in that semi-final how far he’s come. I think he’s a fantastic player. He was a great player before, but I think he’s improved because he’s worked on his mental state. So yeah, it can be worked on.”
Now a father to toddler Sofia Maria, his daughter with wife Vikki, Selby hopes the £375,000 he pocketed at the world championship ensures his family wants for nothing after edging his winnings for the season towards the £1m mark.
He has big plans. “I’ll probably treat her to a new pedal-bin like I did the last time I won,” he says of his wife, a professional pool player.
And his daughter? “I’ll buy her a packet of sweets and spend the rest on myself,” he deadpans, rather than jests, with only the slightest hint of a twinkle.
The Bernabéu bounced and burst into song, the lyrics ringing around the arena echoing the words that had adorned the huge banner unfurled at the south end before the kick-off. “Tell me how it feels,” they gloated. High in the north end, Atlético’s supporters sat in silence, stunned. This felt terrible. It was happening again, the pain unbearable. For a fourth consecutive year, they had met their rivals and for a fourth consecutive year they had fallen.
There will be a second leg to this Champions League semi-final but like all those derbies Atlético thought they had left behind it is likely to be irrelevant, even if Zinedine Zidane insisted it was not done.
“Football is wonderful because unexpected things can happen,” Diego Simeone said but the Atlético manager’s words were one thing, his look another. This had hurt him too.
There is something about Real that Atlético simply cannot overcome; everyone else is one thing, their city rivals another. Under Simeone, Atlético have conceded only 20 goals in Champions League knockout rounds, including finals, but nine of them have been to Real. Three here carried Real towards a third final in four years. They were led by the relentless Cristiano Ronaldo. Five times he scored against Bayern Munich in the quarter-finals; three times he scored against Atlético.
“It came to me to score the goals but the whole team played well. It was the complete performance,” Ronaldo said. His first goal had come after 10 minutes, the last after 86. In between, Atlético did not manage a shot on target for the first time this season.
Real’s past 11 goals in this competition had come in the second half but this time a goal arrived early. Sergio Ramos was given time to cross from right, curling the ball towards Ronaldo, hovering behind Diego Godín. The defender headed out but only as far as Casemiro, who hit the ball straight back. He did not strike it well but it bounced up and Ronaldo, six yards out, headed past Jan Oblak.
The Bernabéu went wild. On the touchline, Simeone was tapping his head. Think, but about what? It would have been difficult not to think about all those other times, three European defeats in three seasons, difficult not to feel pessimism returning, the inevitability of it all, the cruelty. Much of the buildup had focused on psychology. “If the past has to weigh on someone, let it be them,” Real’s Dani Carvajal had said and that appeared to be happening.
Atlético looked rattled. Even when they had the ball – and there were periods when they had a significant amount of it – there was a lack of conviction. They passed but rarely with intent or belief; often it was underhit. Koke swapped sides with Yannick Carrasco, seeking control, and while there was an improvement he was unusually imprecise. When he tried to thread it through gaps, the gaps closed. One superb pass that did cut through Real’s back four found Kévin Gameiro racing alone into the area but, as he slowed momentarily, Keylor Navas sprinted towards him and, diving full length, took the ball from his toe.
When Atlético looked up, Real stood in their way or ran right at them. On the wings, especially, Atlético were struggling. Lucas Hernández, drafted in at right-back, was not enjoying the game. Jan Oblak had already made a sharp save from Karim Benzema before Ronaldo’s opening goal. After it, Luka Modric shot wide, Raphael Varane’s header was superbly saved and Benzema hit a wonderful overhead kick just past the bar.
Atlético’s first shot did not arrive until the half hour, when Antoine Griezmann’s clever free-kick found Godín sliding in at the far post. Real had taken 10 by then, although as the half progressed Atlético did at least stem the bleeding. They had been unexpectedly passive defensively and while there was little danger when they came forward, the good news was they trailed by only one goal. Real also lost Dani Carvajal at half-time to a hamstring injury. From full-back, he had been Real’s main threat; Marcelo on the other side had also concerned the visitors.
Carvajal was replaced by Nacho Fernández who drew applause when he won a race with Angel Carrasco. Atlético took a step forward, Real a step back. Yet if they appeared to be dropping too deep, they rarely lost control, Toni Kroos adept at managing time and the ball. For their part, Atlético lacked clarity and they knew that counterattack is a weapon Zidane’s side use better than anyone.
If a lot happened in the first half, little was happening now, but the threat never went away. Fernando Torres, Nico Gaitán and Angel Correa had come on for Atlético to no effect, while Real’s substitutes Lucas Vázquez and Marco Asensio sped the game up as it stretched. Their impact would be significant; Ronaldo’s was gigantic. Real controlled, rarely suffered, and then struck. They had been the better side from the start but it was not resolved until the end.
With 73 minutes gone, Marcelo crossed from the left, Benzema held off Godín and nudged it on for Ronaldo. Opening up his body, he smashed a superb shot into the top corner. Atlético sought the goal that would give them a chance; instead, they conceded the goal that means they surely have none. Vázquez broke up the right and pulled the ball back for Ronaldo to side-foot home comfortably. The goal that carried Real closer to Cardiff was his 103rd in the Champions League, more than Atlético have ever scored.
Tracey Gaudry’s appointment as CEO of the Hawthorn football club earlier this week represents a landmark in the cultural progression of Australian sport – it is the first time a woman has taken on such a role at an AFL club, and takes Hawthorn’s senior leadership team to 50-50 in gendered representation.
The impact of Monday’s announcement should not be underestimated. Women languish at all levels of officialdom in the AFL. To date there has been only one female club president (in Peggy O’Neal at Richmond), while St Kilda assistant coach Peta Searle steered VWFL powerhouse Darebin to five consecutive premierships and was a five-time premiership player and three-time all-Australian before she was considered for a senior role in the men’s game.
And despite the many years of gruelling hard work by stalwarts of the women’s game such as Jan Cooper and Debbie Lee (amongst many others), the AFL appointed two men – Simon Lethlean and Josh Vandaloo – to head up the AFLW in its inaugural year.
Gaudry’s progressive appointment comes after a career steeped in achievement in both sport and sporting administration. She spoke of her pride in being the first female CEO, and lamented the parallels with the macho culture in the AFL and cycling.
Herself a champion cyclist who reached world No3 at her peak, she represented Australia at the Atlanta and Sydney Games before moving into sports administration. It was then that she became the first woman appointed to the board of the International Cycling Union in 116 years (as vice president). She reminded her audience that she remains the only woman on that board, a situation she described – with a considered pause – as a “tragedy”.
Last month she was listed by Australian Olympic Committee president John Coates on his seven-person ticket for board positions. This is the same man whose staunch supporter and media director, Mike Tancred, stands accused of workplace harassment and bullying by the former AOC chief executive Fiona de Jong, who made a complaint that she says was ignored by Coates until she went public with it.
In a cruel twist of irony, De Jong, who is looking for other employment since abruptly quitting her AOC post last year, was also in the running for the Hawthorn CEO position before being beaten out by Gaudry.
It was hard to get a read on what Gaudry’s appointment will mean for gender relations at Hawthorn, or in the AFL more broadly, at her first media appearance in the role at Waverley on Monday, although she was quick to laud the progressive turn in Australian sport: “Australia is a very progressive society, in all parts of society, in business and in sport. Inclusivity is now the norm. Possibly it won’t be too long before another [female CEO] is appointed.”
Perhaps this was first-day-on-the-job talk, but a glimpse into Gaudry’s politics was offered when she was asked if affirmative action was necessary to ensure equality of gendered representation in leadership. “I’m not one for affirmative action,” she said. “Perhaps that’s because as a person I found the strength to find a way through. That’s fortunate in terms of what my personal makeup might be. And having been the first a couple of times, [that’s] probably a demonstration of that.”
In other words, Gaudry ran with an insistence on the power of individual strength and resilience to break through so many glass ceilings in existing structures. One can only hope that her milestone appointment will change those same structures.

The Pescara midfielder Sulley Muntari has been banned for one match after walking off the pitch at Cagliari on Sunday following racist abuse from the home crowd. Muntari was booked for complaining to the referee about the abuse, before walking off the pitch and earning a second yellow card.
Serie A’s disciplinary committee added that no action would be taken against Cagliari over the incident. The committee described the chanting as deplorable but claimed that “an approximate number of only 10” individuals were involved, not enough to warrant a punishment against the club under Serie A rules.
Muntari said he suffered abuse throughout his side’s 1-0 defeat at Cagliari but was booked for dissent when he asked referee Daniele Minelli to stop the game in the 90th minute, and left the field in stoppage time.
“[The referee] told me I should not talk to the crowd,” Muntari said after the game. I asked him if he had heard the insults. I insisted that he must have the courage to stop the game,” he added.
“The referee should not just stay on the field and blow the whistle, he must do everything. He should be aware of these things and set an example.”
Earlier, the world players’ union Fifpro had called on Serie A to rescind Muntari’s first yellow card. “We urge Italian authorities to hear Muntari’s version of events, investigate why the situation was mismanaged, and take firm action to ensure this never happens again,” it said in a statement.
“Muntari was well within his rights to approach the referee, as the first point of reference, to make his grievances known and seek a solution … Professional footballers should expect to be adequately protected by the relevant authorities,” the statement concluded. The committee instead confirmed Muntari’s automatic one-match ban, saying his second yellow card was for “abandoning the pitch without the referee’s permission”.
Lazio and Internazionale were found guilty of racist behaviour by their fans during other games played last weekend, and both were warned they would face partial stadium closures if there was a repeat.
The committee said that the Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly was the target of racist chanting by Inter fans during his side’s 1-0 win at the San Siro, while Lazio supporters targeted the Roma defender Antonio Rüdiger during the Rome derby.
It added that around 80% of the 7,000 Inter fans in one of the upper tier sections of the San Siro aimed insults at Senegal defender Koulibaly, and a similar number of fans in one section of Lazio’s Curva Nord directed abuse towards Rüdiger. In both cases, the tribunal ordered the sectors to be closed for one game if there was a repeat incident within the next year.
A New York City man is on a mission to flush the cremated remains of his lifelong friend – a plumber – down ballpark toilets around the US.
Tom McDonald told the New York Times that it’s a fitting tribute for Roy Riegel. The two baseball fans were childhood friends in Queens, not far from – appropriately – Flushing Meadows, where the Mets play.
Like baseball, this endeavor has rules. The game has to be in progress when McDonald sprinkles the ashes into the toilet. So far, he’s completed his task at 16 stadiums.
Riegel was also a music fan: in Cleveland, McDonald flushed ashes at both Progressive Field and the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame. In Chicago, McDonald did his duty at a White Sox game, skipping Wrigley Field because the Cubs are longtime rivals of the Mets.
“I know people might think it’s weird, and if it were anyone else’s ashes, I’d agree,” McDonald said. “But for Roy, this is the perfect tribute to a plumber and a baseball fan and just a brilliant, wild guy.”
Riegel’s family agreed to share a portion of the ashes after his death in 2008. McDonald spoons out a little each time, from an old peanut can, wrapped in Mets ticket stubs, that he keeps next to World Series highlight videos and his collection of 149 baseball Hall of Fame autographs.
Hank Riegel, of Waterloo, New York, said his brother would appreciate the offbeat gesture. “He’d be like, ‘Oh, yeah, do that,’” Riegel said. “He would definitely approve of it. Never once did Roy follow the rules.”
McDonald has enough ashes left for one more tribute. He hopes to do it at Durham Athletic Park in North Carolina, where the 1988 baseball movie Bull Durham was filmed.
The IAAF seems to have done a very sensible thing in a stupendously clumsy way (Radcliffe and Edwards fury at ‘cowardly’ plan to strip athletics records, Sport, 2 May). By discounting the records of athletes rather than merely drawing a line from today, they have upset those athletes, the very heroes who provide that inspiration for future generations that is missing elsewhere. The decision makes sense only if you consider that most athletics records last for about four years, as all major games will have gone through a cycle in that time. Only the truly long-lived records, therefore, are in question.
But if we are to question Paula Radcliffe’s and Jonathan Edward’s records, where – with the IAAF’s logic – do we stop? If Mike Powell’s 8.95m long jump doesn’t fit the new rules, the same must apply to Bob Beamon’s 8.9m in the Mexico Olympics. Closer to home on the same logic, do we now question whether Roger Bannister actually beat the four-minute mile? It’s time for the IAAF to make an Olympic effort and reconsider at record-breaking speed.Gary OsborneKeighley, West Yorkshire
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
Leyton Orient fans will be able to attend their team’s final match in the Football League at Blackpool after the EFL reversed a decision to suspend ticket sales to away supporters for the match at Bloomfield Road on Saturday.
The Leyton Orient Fans’ Trust (Loft) had written to the Football League (EFL) asking them to reconsider their support for Blackpool’s decision to suspend ticket sales to away supporters.
Blackpool had announced on Monday that there would be no away tickets available for the League Two fixture, claiming the “decision was taken following a number of concerns,” with a statement making clear that one of those was a possible pitch invasion following the one that took place at Brisbane Road on Saturday.
A large number of Orient fans occupied the pitch in the 85th minute of their side’s 3-1 defeat by Colchester, forcing the match to be delayed by nearly two hours. The invasion was in protest at the club’s owner, Francesco Becchetti, under whom Orient have suffered a disastrous three years, which has included relegation from the Football League and the ongoing threat of a winding-up order.
The EFL initially approved Blackpool’s request but on Tuesday announced that a revised allocation of 1,000 tickets would be made available to Orient fans.
“Following extensive discussions and representations made by relevant parties throughout the course of Tuesday, an agreement has been reached that delivers on the EFL’s objective to ensure both sets of spectators can attend the match live,” said the EFL in a statement.
“All remaining tickets sold to Leyton Orient supporters between now and Saturday’s kick-off will be done so only on the basis that the purchaser is a current 2016-17 Season Ticket holder or a member of the Leyton Orient Fans Trust (Loft). All tickets sold prior to Monday’s suspension of sale remain valid.”
An EFL spokesman said: “We are delighted we have been able to find an amicable solution to this particular issue and would like to place on record our thanks to all those parties who have assisted the EFL in achieving the outcome.”
Loft had asked the EFL to reconsider following Monday’s decision. “In short, Loft has stated that the game should go ahead as planned, with Blackpool FC ensuring there is sufficient security in place to prevent pitch incursions from either set of supporters,” read a statement. “There is nothing to suggest Leyton Orient’s supporters will be anything but peaceful. The pitch invasion protest at their last home match was peaceful in nature, with no violence. There has been no suggestion by the police that public order offences took place, nor were there any arrests for such offences. Indeed, the protest saw protesters on crutches, in mobility scooters and with small children in tow.”
The statement added: “Leyton Orient and its supporters has no history of violent protest. Our fans have been welcomed by other clubs supporting Loft’s aims, including allowing Orient fans to make collections to our Regeneration Fund at Luton, Cambridge and Tottenham Hotspur.
“Further, there is no history of bad relations between the two clubs, indeed quite the opposite; both sets of supporters took part in a joint peaceful protest march at the reverse fixture last November. This is quite simply an extreme over-reaction by Blackpool FC to one single pitch invasion protest by Leyton Orient supporters. It appears to be a punishment of all Orient supporters at the protest having taken place.”
Slaven Bilic’s future at West Ham United will be determined by how his team performs against Tottenham Hotspur on Friday night and Liverpool on Sunday week in the final two home matches of the season.
The club’s hierarchy has watched Bilic’s team labour at the London Stadium since the move there last August and they are conscious of how routinely they have been out-played by the leading sides. Manchester City took them apart in both the Premier League and the FA Cup, as did Arsenal in the league, while Manchester United and Chelsea have also beaten them in the league.
The Tottenham game is pivotal and Bilic could re-energise his tenure and be able to look towards the summer with optimism if he could oversee a good result against the club that West Ham fans most love to hate. Those supporters would love to end Tottenham’s title hopes and, if they did, it would go a long way towards ending a disappointing season on an upbeat note.
On the other hand, another bad home defeat would put Bilic’s position in jeopardy. The board of directors will review whether to persist with him at the end of the season and it is difficult to overstate how sorely he needs some positivity against Tottenham and Liverpool, with the former the most important game because of the local rivalry.
West Ham finish the season at Burnley. They have restored a measure of stability in recent weeks with a run of four matches without defeat, having lost five in a row previously and they look to have done enough to stay on the right side of the relegation cut-off. But if results were to go against them, they might need one more win to make sure.
The club’s various settling-in problems at the London Stadium have been well-documented but arguably the biggest issue to bog them down has been the lack of spark in their displays.
Bilic’s team beat Chelsea 2-1 in the EFL Cup last October – on a night when crowd trouble led to unwanted headlines – and there was the 3-0 win over Crystal Palace in January, when Andy Carroll scored one of the goals of the season. Those games apart, the pickings have been slim and the picture has not been much better away from home.
There is an acceptance within the hierarchy that the club’s recruitment last summer left plenty to be desired and Bilic cannot be blamed for all of it. Of the 10 new faces to arrive, it is hard to say whether any of them have been out-and-out successes. Edimilson Fernandes has done well, at times, while Havard Nordtveit and Arthur Masuaku have shown flickers of late.
But Bilic made it plain that he wanted Gokhan Tore above anybody else and the loan signing from Besiktas has started only three league games. His decision to rely upon Michail Antonio as a right-back at the start of the season was also flawed and it left the team short in the position.
Bilic has – by and large – been able to retain the support of the fans and this has helped him during the season’s low points. He urgently needs to give them something to shout about at the end.
There are punters still alive today who can remember a time when the only racing at Ascot all year was during what was then a four-day Royal meeting in June. Now, the Queen’s track stages meetings both on the Flat and over jumps and in every month of the year bar March, but there is still a sense of significance about the first Flat racing of the year at Britain’s premier track and the Sagaro Stakes card on Wednesday afternoon is unlikely to disappoint.
The six-race programme now includes two important trials for Group Ones at the Royal meeting, as the introduction of the Commonwealth Cup for three-year-old sprinters in 2015 has already had a knock-on effect on the quality of the Group Three Pavilion Stakes. Upgraded from Listed status to Group Three when the new Group One parachuted straight into the Royal meeting’s programme, the Pavilion could earn a further rise in status in the near future if Wednesday’s renewal is any guide.
The 12-strong field includes the winner and runner-up in last season’s Gimcrack Stakes – Blue Point and Mokarris – as well as two more of last year’s juvenile Group Two winners in Harry Angel and Tis Marvellous. Blue Point and Harry Angel are second and fourth in the Commonwealth Cup betting at 8-1 and 10-1 respectively, while all but one of the field hold an entry in the Group One next month.
Blue Point is likely to set off favourite at around 2-1 with Harry Angel next in the betting at 9-2, but the latter’s trainer, Clive Cox, also saddles Tis Marvellous, who took last summer’s Prix Robert Papin at Maisons-Laffitte in the fastest time recorded in the race since the mid-1970s. Cox sent out two Group One winners at last year’s Royal meeting, and while the betting makes Tis Marvellous a 14-1 shot, the trainer does not favour one runner over the other.
“They’re both really exciting prospects,” Cox said. “We’re on target for the Commonwealth Cup with both horses all being well, and they’ve both wintered well. Harry Angel has a four-pound penalty for his win in the Mill Reef [at Newbury] last year, but we’re keen to get him on track and get a run or two into him before Ascot.
“It’s a very, very hot race, there’s no two ways about it. The three-year-old path to the Royal meeting only gives us a couple of opportunities to have an airing beforehand without taking on older horses, which isn’t helpful at this stage of their lives.”
Harry Angel was withdrawn from a race at Glorious Goodwood last summer after becoming unruly in the stalls and suffering bruising in the process, but he was heavily backed before his next outing in the Mill Reef and ran out an easy winner.
“I hope we’ve put Goodwood behind us now,” Cox said, “but that’s the reason for wanting to give him a chance to gain more experience before Royal Ascot and that’s why we’re running with a penalty.
“Tis Marvellous is a course record holder at Maisons-Laffitte and he’s a serious contender as well, and without a penalty. It’s just a shame that we have to compete against our own yard in this instance, but that’s racing sometimes, and it’s great to have two horses of this calibre on our hands. They’re both fit and well and raring to go.”
Wednesday’s race promises to be a fascinating pointer towards the Commonwealth Cup, and Harry Angel’s penalty may just tip the balance in favour of Blue Point (3.45), who is bred to get a mile but has been seen as a likely contender for the Royal meeting’s three-year-old sprint since last summer. Six of the eight runners in the Sagaro Stakes have an entry in the Gold Cup, including Harbour Law, last year’s St Leger winner, but Nearly Caught (3.10) is the only obvious front-runner in the field and could make it count.
Ascot
2.00 Corinthia Knight 2.35 Prosper 3.10 Nearly Caught (nb) 3.40 Blue Point 4.20 Firmament (nap) 4.55 Mister Music
Brighton
5.05 Milton Road 5.35 No Not Again 6.05 Tidal’s Baby 6.35 The Juggler 7.05 Alnasl 7.35 Bloodsweatandtears 8.05 Virile
Pontefract
2.15 Ventura Dragon 2.50 Mudaarab 3.25 Gambit 4.00 Mittens 4.35 Gin In The Inn 5.10 Suitcase ‘N’ Taxi 5.45 Horsforth
Yarmouth
5.20 Orsino 5.50 Bartholomew J 6.20 Frosting 6.50 Commodity 7.20 Harlequin Rock 7.50 Lunar Deity 8.20 Compas Scoobie
Wolverhampton
1.20 Maggi May 1.50 Pleasant Surprise 2.25 Inflexiball 3.00 Viola Park 3.35 Ballard Down 4.10 Golden State 4.45 Whispered Kiss 5.10 The Dukkerer
When Lionel Messi slaloms away from three, four, five players, before dabbing a shot past the keeper with the cool nonchalance of a movie star stubbing out a cigarette, millions of jaws go into freefall. It is the same when Ronnie O’Sullivan machine-guns around a snooker table, or Roger Federer whips his wrist to slap a scudding cross-court winner. Their genius makes us giddy.
Yet when a track and field star produces something equally extraordinary, our inner detective moves to high alert. We have been duped, deceived and played for fools so many times now that a world record no longer becomes a moment of pure joy and exhilaration but a potential crime scene.
But on Tuesday, as the full implications of the radical plan to wipe out all world and European records before 2005 began to sink in, there were plenty in the sport who believed it was the start of a necessary sea change.
One British coach told the Guardian it was “possibly the best bit of reform ever” – before citing, with approval, the plan to strip anyone who cheats of their world and European records. Another administrator expressed his delight at the news. “I have spent 10 years being amazed how little my counterparts care about doping,” he said. “So hats off to European Athletics president Svein Arne Hansen for showing he has bollocks.”
It was also a tacit but welcome acknowledgement of the sport’s barrel-aged problems with performance enhancing drugs. You didn’t need a GCSE in bio-chemistry to know that female athletes from eastern bloc countries and elsewhere during the Cold War era were getting “help”. You saw it in their giant-oak thighs and baritone voices and, in some cases, even read about later it in the Stasi files. Yet the best law PhDs could not get those records struck off the books. Now they will be.
As the dust began to settle, there were those who were less comfortable with the news. Jonathan Edwards, whose 18.29m triple jump world record has stood since 1995, admitted he wished the authorities had not buried the old records together, as if they were all radioactive.
“In a sense what European Athletics and the IAAF do is not going to make any difference to how I feel about what I achieved in my career,” he told the Guardian. “It was always about my sense of pride in my performance and doing it the right way. I can’t speak for Christian Taylor, or any of the triple jumpers, but my guess is none of them doubt my 18.29m is clean. And that is more important to me than what a bunch of sports administrators decide. The irony is they are not saying my record is dodgy, but they are by their actions.”
Paula Radcliffe, the women’s marathon record holder, said she understood the reasoning behind scrapping records, but thought the solution was flawed. “It would be better to remove all records where there is sufficient evidence of doping to stand up in a court of law [Stasi files, later failed tests etc], and put in place stringent conditions for records going forward,” she added. “But don’t punish athletes just for the era they were born and performed in.”
Yet how can we be certain that this era is any cleaner than the past? Especially given what has happened in Russia recently, and with anti-doping agencies warning of problems in places like Kenya, Ethiopia and Turkey. And this might be the tip of the iceberg. In 2013 Dick Pound, the former head of the World Anti-Doping Agency, suggested that if 10% of athletes were cheating it would be a “conservative number”. Yet according to official figures, the percentage of positive doping tests – around 1% – has barely changed since 1985.
Something clearly does not add up. Meanwhile in 2011 Wada commissioned an anonymous survey of over 2,000 athletes, and estimated that 29% of athletes at the world championships that year and 45% at the Pan-Arab Games admitted they had knowingly violated anti-doping regulations by using a prohibited substance or method in the past 12 months. The research is heavily disputed, but it raises another obvious problem: is it worth wiping the records if there are question marks about the ones that replace it?
Behind the scenes, reformers acknowledge that if there is to be more confidence in track and field, this has to be the first step in a wider package – including looking into the misuse of Therapeutic Use Exemptions, thyroid and asthma medication, and corticosteroids out of competition to lose weight.
A more zealous policy of storing, and retrospective testing of samples would be no bad thing either, while there are still far too few investigators to hunt down cheats. If Hajo Seppelt can expose serious wrongdoing in Russia and Kenya, what would two dozen more of his ilk achieve?
And while more testing is far from being the answer, it probably wouldn’t hurt if leading athletes not only had their blood and urine samples taken more regularly but always had them tested for specific performance-enhancing drugs like peptides, human-growth hormone and EPO.
Yet as Pound put it bluntly four years ago: “There is no general appetite to undertake the effort and expense of a successful effort to deliver doping-free sport.” Perhaps a bit more honesty from senior figures wouldn’t go amiss either. We all yearn for the day when we live in a clean athletics era, but there will always be people who cheat and cheaters who get away with it. Why not be open about some of the problems in the system?
For now, none of us truly know whether the latest proposals represent a new broom that will start to clean things up – or merely a blanket lobbed over the remnants of track and field’s embarrassing past.
As Dave Bedford, who broke the 10,000m world record in the early 1970s, wisely puts it: “It is clear something radical has to be done to regain integrity in our sport. Whether this is the right move only time will tell. But it will only work if it is part of a far wider set of measures. Otherwise this is just PR.”
The London Stadium is moving closer to hosting two matches over a weekend in the 2019 World Cup, creating what the England and Wales Cricket Board hopes will be a record-breaking festival of cricket.
The organisers of the World Cup would like the London Stadium to host one day-night match on a Friday, and then a day game on a Sunday. Should the plans be ratified, England and India seem certain to play a game each. The probable fixtures would be England playing Australia, perhaps on the Friday under floodlights, and India playing Pakistan.
Given the capacity for cricket is believed to be 60,000, the crowd for the India-Pakistan match would be the highest for a game between the two countries outside the subcontinent.
Playing two matches at the London Stadium over a weekend would reduce operating costs and increase the visibility of the games.
The World Cup organising committee will meet to discuss the use of the stadium on 11 May and hopes to confirm its decision in mid-July, once it has seen how quickly the venue adapts to athletics after its first season being used by West Ham. The window in which the venue could host cricket is believed to be only a week.
While it had been thought the London Stadium could host Essex T20 matches next summer, this now appears unlikely. The World Cup matches would be the ground’s first cricket games.
The organising committee has found the size of the boundary complies with the International Cricket Council’s minimum requirements. The games would use drop-in pitches for the first time in international cricket in England, though questions remain over whether the outfield would meet World Cup standards, and over the costs of adjusting the stadium to host cricket. The ICC has yet to inspect the ground but is understood to be keen on the concept.
The ECB is conscious the total attendance for the 2015 World Cup in Australia and New Zealand topped one million and aspires to get as close to this figure as possible. Using the London Stadium for two matches would increase net capacity for games at the tournament to around 900,000.
All matches for the World Cup have already been allocated but the organising committee would compensate grounds that give up matches, guaranteeing the same financial benefits as if they had hosted an extra game. The Oval, which has been awarded five games, is likely to lose one match, though Surrey would be relaxed about the prospect.
Should the World Cup matches be successful it increases the likelihood of the London Stadium being involved in hosting games in the new city-based T20 tournament if it coincides with the venue being available to stage cricket.
Daniel Bell-Drummond and Alex Blake both scored centuries as Kent set Somerset an improbable chase of 353 at Taunton only to see Peter Trego trump them both with a superb 135 that helped the home side chase down the target with 15 balls remaining.
Blake’s ferocious 116 came off only 58 balls and included seven sixes, with Bell-Drummond scoring 106 from 120 deliveries. Trego scored six sixes of his own in his 119-ball innings and, with the support of half-centuries from James Hildreth and Dean Elgar, helped Somerset home on a bad day for bowlers.
Alex Hales scored a quick-fire 77 as Nottinghamshire secured a Duckworth-Lewis victory over neighbours Derbyshire with four balls to spare at the County Ground.
In a low-scoring game at The Oval, Essex won by one wicket after chasing down Surrey’s 210 all out with four balls remaining. Ryan ten Doeschate top-scored with 45 for the visitors after Ben Foakes’s 77 had helped Surrey recover from 119 for six.
Sussex were convincing winners in their rain-affected match against Glamorgan at Hove. The visitors were skittled for 221 in 40 overs, 59 runs short of their target.
Given Real Madrid won the first five Big Cup finals, and by an aggregate scoreline of 18-8 to boot, you have to hand it to Uefa for somehow managing to make their premier club tournament even more predictable in the modern era. At least back in the day, Real would play teams such as Reims, Fiorentina and Eintracht Frankfurt in the final, Vasas in the semis, and the likes of Servette, Royal Antwerp and Wiener Sport-Club along the way. Nowadays the same sides repeatedly face each other again and again. And again. In 2014, Real beat Atlético Madrid in the final. In 2015, Real beat Atlético in the quarter-final. Last year, Real beat Atlético in the final. This year, Real are going to beat Atlético in the semi-final, while the underdogs of the competition are a club representing a jurisdiction offering favourable tax breaks to oligarchs. Come back, Vasas! Wiener Sport-Club! Alfredo and Ferenc! All is forgiven.
But here we all are, and Atlético will be thoroughly sick of the sight of their city neighbours. Sergio Ramos denied them their first Big Cup in 2014, plagiarising Hans-Georg Schwarzenbeck’s famous 1974 routine with a last-minute equaliser that led to their subsequent collapse. Javier Hernández knocked them out of the following year’s quarters with a late header, while He sealed the deal last year in the final penalty shootout. But Madrid boss Zinedine Zidane insists all this history will have no influence on this season’s affair. “It’s a completely different tie!” he lied through the teeth clamped around the cigar he’s got on, surely knowing full well that some clubs simply have the sign over others. It’s just the way football is. How else would Dundee United’s wins-to-matches record against Barcelona best Real’s by a whopping 63.6%?
Real have some demons of their own to battle, of course. As they’re favourites to win La Liga, success in Big Cup may be beyond them if history is any guide. That’s because they’ve not been champions of Spain and Europe in the same year since 1958. Perhaps that’s why Zizou is happy to peddle guff such as “what happened in the past is in the past”, “we can’t rely on the past now”, and other stuff he’s learned by rote from the magnets on his fridge. His only real concern is the absence of Gareth Bale with calf-knack; Atlético, by contrast, could be missing Juanfran, Yannick Carrasco and José Giménez. The Fiver therefore predicts Real to knock Atlético out in devastatingly cruel circumstances, going on to lift their 12th Big Cup by beating Juventus, who’ll lose in the final for the 973rd time. More please, Uefa!
Join Scott Murray for hot MBM coverage of Real Madrid 2-1 Atlético Madrid, from 7.45pm BST.
“He is an unbelievable guy. It is difficult for me to imagine the end. I don’t know when that will be. I can say only he inspired me, the way I manage, the way I behave in life as well. I am sad to read the criticism of him and the bad words, because he committed the last 20 years to the club he loves so much” – Rémi Garde talks all things Arsène Wenger, Aston Villa and the latest golden French generation, in this chat with Amy Lawrence.
Get your hearing gear round the latest instalment of Football Weekly!
It’s your boy, David Squires, on the cancellation of St Totteringham’s Day, starring Chris Armstrong, Gary Doherty and Christian Gross’s zone 1-4 travelcard.
Producing the Guardian’s thoughtful, in-depth journalism – the stuff not normally found in this email, obviously – is expensive, but supporting us isn’t. If you value our journalism, please support us by making a one-off or recurring contribution.
“On a recent diving trip, during a relatively average dive, my bored mind drifted off to various thoughts and for some reason landed on football. Initially, how much fun it would be if Manchester United did not qualify for Big Cup. Then I started thinking who I would want to finish fourth if United did win Big Vase. Arsenal, of course. Then I was wondering what if Lyon win Big Vase and Monaco win Big Cup – would only the league champions of Ligue 1 qualify for Big Cup? That got me thinking how amazing a tournament would be that you had to actually win something to qualify for it. It could be a knockout cup, with only the crème de la crème of European sides. Call it the European Cup, I was thinking. Then I saw an octopus and haven’t really given it much thought since” – Graham Haslam [no idea about Ligue 1, but there’s this – Fiver Ed].
“Definitely like Joe M’s letter suggesting production of a ‘1,057 Pedants’ T-shirt (Friday’s Fiver letters). But be aware that I’ll buy one if, and only if, you have exactly 1,057 made up, and when they’re gone they’re gone. Otherwise what’s the point? My teeth grind every time I am reminded that the ‘1,057 Pedants’ FPL league has 1,317 teams in it. Offends my pedantic sensibilities, you might say” – Ben Jones.
Send your letters to the.boss@theguardian.com. And if you’ve nothing better to do you can also tweet The Fiver. Today’s winner of our prizeless letter o’the day is … Ben Jones.
Chances are that if you’re reading this tea-timely football email, you’re almost certainly single. But fear not – if you’d like to find companionship or love, sign up here to view profiles of the kind of erudite, sociable and friendly folk who would never normally dream of going out with you. And don’t forget, it’s not the rejection that kills you, it’s the hope. And it’s still a much better option than this.
The Leyton Orient Fans’ Trust (Loft) has written to the Football League, asking it to sort itself out and reconsider the decision to back Blackpool’s suspension of ticket sales for away supporters at the relegated Os’ season-ender at Bloomfield Road.
Jürgen Klopp has warned the Emre Can All-Star Entertainers that a place in the top four isn’t guaranteed despite their 1-0 win at Watford, plus the general shambling of those teams placed from fourth to seventh. “We need to stay focused, to stay concentrated,” he tooted. “We have pressure until the end of the season but at least it’s a positive pressure.”
Luke Shaw could miss the start of next season because of foot-knack sustained in Manchester United’s 1-1 draw against Swansea. “Luke Shaw’s must be a big [knack] because to leave the pitch after 10 minutes I am expecting a very big [knack],” parped José Mourinho afterwards.
Spurs forward Harry Kane is looking forward to reducing Chelsea’s Premier League lead to a point when they beat West Ham on Friday. “It is good to try to play first and try to put that pressure on,” he enthused.
John Ruddy and Sébastien Bassong are among seven Norwich players being shown the door marked Do One at Carrow Road.
And Euro 2024 hosting candidates Germany and Turkey have been told they must meet specific criteria for human and labour rights and anti-corruption measures for their bids to be considered. “It was imperative for us to introduce specific articles on the respect and protection of human rights in the bidding requirements for all of our competitions,” honked Uefa chief suit Aleksander Ceferin. Not sure how specific they are if Baku got in for Euro 2020, mind.
Rebecca Lowe has been doing her bit to help popularise her country’s domestic game in the USA! USA!! USA!!! since moving to work for NBC. Dave Caldwell meets her.
One-man footballing search engine Jonathan Wilson tells us all about Juve’s Paulo Dybala, his Polish and Italian roots, and his thrilling creative talents.
Gabi insists Atlético have the confidence and desire to finally end their jinx against Real. Ha! Read Sid Lowe’s big semi-final preview. And this piece on Saúl Ñíguez.
As documentary Forbidden Games casts light on Justin Fashanu’s tragic story, his brother tells Daniel Harris about their troubled relationship. You won’t be surprised to learn that John doesn’t come across tremendously well.
Barney Ronay on the ascent of Spurs.
Oh, and if it’s your thing … you can follow Big Website on Big Social FaceSpace. And INSTACHAT, TOO!
The Red Sox president, Sam Kennedy, has apologized after Boston fans taunted Orioles center fielder Adam Jones with racial slurs. Kennedy also apologized for a fan throwing peanuts at Jones on Monday night. He says the organization is “sickened by the conduct of an ignorant few.”
Jones, who is black, told USA Today “called the n-word a handful of times”. He added: “It’s unfortunate that people need to resort to those type of epithets to degrade another human being.”
The five-time All-Star said he has been the subject of racist heckling in Boston’s ballpark before, but this was one of the worst cases of fan abuse he has heard in his 12-year career, according to USA Today Sports.
“It’s pathetic,” Jones said. “It’s called a coward. What they need to do is that instead of kicking them out of the stadium, they need to fine them 10 grand, 20 grand, 30 grand. Something that really hurts somebody.”
The Red Sox said they were reviewing what happened at the game, but any spectator behaving poorly forfeits the right to be in the ballpark and could be subject to further action.
“The Red Sox want to publicly apologize to Adam Jones and the entire Orioles organization for what occurred at Fenway Park Monday night,” Kennedy said. “No player should have an object thrown at him on the playing field, nor be subjected to any kind of racism at Fenway Park.”
New York Yankees pitcher CC Sabathia did little to dispel Boston’s reputation for intolerance in comments to Newsday’s Erik Boland on Tuesday afternoon, saying he’s “never been called the n-word” anywhere but in Boston during his 17-year major league career.
He added that black major leaguers have come to expect racial taunts in road games against the Red Sox.
“We know,” Sabathia said. “There’s 62 of us. We all know. When you go to Boston, expect it.”
The MLB commissioner, Rob Manfred, condemned the night’s events and any racist incidents would be subject to “further action”.
“The racist words and actions directed at Adam Jones at Fenway Park last night are completely unacceptable and will not be tolerated at any of our ballparks,” Manfred said. “My office has been in contact with the Red Sox, and the club has made it clear that they will not tolerate this inexcusable behavior.
“Our 30 clubs will continue to work with fans and security to provide a family-friendly environment. Any individual who behaves in such offensive fashion will be immediately removed from the ballpark and subject to further action.”
The Orioles’ 5-2 victory marked the latest testy game between the AL East rivals this season, including a dust-up in Baltimore just more than a week ago.
In the teams’ previous meeting at Camden Yards, Boston reliever Matt Barnes sent a pitch that whizzed behind Manny Machado’s head and hit the slugger’s bat. Barnes was suspended four games and fined.
Machado had rankled the Red Sox with a late slide into second baseman Dustin Pedroia’s left leg two days earlier. Pedroia missed a handful of games. Orioles pitcher Dylan Bundy hit Mookie Betts near the left hip with a fastball Monday night, prompting loud boos.
Flooded with tantalising possibility, the temptation for Didier Deschamps to pick his next France squad merely by drawing lots must have some traction. The new wave of talent to burst on to the scene is impossible to ignore as they have sparkled in European football this season as well as domestically. Deschamps’ most recent squad included the startlingly spectacular Kylian Mbappé (aged 18), Ousmane Dembélé (19), Thomas Lemar (21), Adrian Rabiot (22), Corentin Tolisso (22), Benjamin Mendy (22) and Tiemoué Bakayoko (22).
French football has witnessed a whirlwind gathering speed during the season. This week Monaco and Lyon fly the flag in European semi-finals, the former up against Juventus in the Champions League and the latter taking on Ajax in the Europa League. Paris Saint-Germain eclipse all-comers in French football financially but their rivals have found a way to shine through balanced team building and faith in youth.
Rémi Garde, now living back in his home town of Lyon and watching the club’s revival from the perspective he describes as “more than a fan”, is extremely proud of the way the club he represented as player, manager and academy director has developed a talented group from its own production line. Garde was integral to the emergence of Alexandre Lacazette, Nabil Fekir and Tolisso, whose excellent campaigns make them targets for richer clubs, alongside talents who have already departed in Barcelona’s Samuel Umtiti and Manchester United’s Anthony Martial.
“The birth of this generation was a few years ago,” he explains. “It would be a bit pretentious on my part to say I knew they would come through like this. Circumstances have to be right to give young players an opportunity to play. The club had some difficult moments financially because they had to fund the construction of a new stadium. Because I had spent a couple of years with the academy I knew we had a good group coming through. I had confidence in them.
“In France we always have more attacking and midfield players than defensive players. There are a lot of players in all the suburbs of the big cities who develop a special kind of intelligence. It’s like street football and there are not too many rules – so they develop skills to dribble instinctively, the kind of things that are not so well developed in more structured clubs. For them it is only a game, not work.”
Any club blessed with blossoming talent which operates a rung or two down from the most glamorous elite knows it will face a fight to hold on to the most precious. Garde recognises that it is hard to ignore those offers even if it might be more sensible to mature more calmly for a while longer. How many will follow Martial and Umtiti to hastily exit Ligue 1?
“It’s very difficult to say no,” he says. “When you are young, even if you love the club you grew up at, you always dream of the best team in the world. When the day comes, the phone rings and you hear this kind of club wants you it is difficult to resist.”
He expects to see Lacazette, who did bide his time and turns 26 this month, set a major club alight soon. “I rate him very highly. I have the feeling now he is ready – he is strong enough in his head to settle into any team. I know him very well. He improved a lot thanks to his commitment at each training session. The way he supports and leads the team this season is unbelievable. He never left Lyon before and I know from my own experience as a kid of Lyon that when you leave your city for the first time it’s quite difficult. If he chooses the right club, the right manager, and they have a little patience with him, they will be rewarded.”
Garde has watched Martial’s experience since moving to England with interest. “I see more someone who needs to be challenged,” he says. “He has always been like that. He is very gifted but he needs to be pushed. I see that his current manager is sometimes pushing him to deliver more. I am not surprised about that. Anthony is very quiet and calm. Of course when you are playing for United it’s different to what he knew in France but I think he copes quite well. He is a very nice guy and a competitor – he wants to win – but he is a bit reserved. He is 21, which is very young to be a star at Man United. Sometimes you need the experience of other players who can talk to him, push him, advise him.”
He remembers being the senior pro alongside a 20-year-old Patrick Vieira when they moved to the Premier League and Arsenal together. “We had – still have – 10 years between us. Arsène [Wenger] had the brilliant idea to bring two French guys at the same time so it was a bit easier for us to settle, especially for Patrick who was only 20 and didn’t speak any English at all.” Garde notes the importance of having good examples in the shape of experienced players and namechecks Hugo Lloris as having played a vital role in that way at Lyon.
Garde feels it has never been harder for gifted young prodigies to come through. “It’s very difficult today because there are many temptations, so much money at a young age which is difficult to handle, and with the media and social pressures it becomes even more challenging to succeed. Inevitably as a young player you come across very tough moments at some point in your development. In those moments there is always someone telling you: ‘It’s not your fault. The coach doesn’t play you.’
“So you have to have an extra-strong mentality. You need to have a tight family environment, a very good education. The third entity is the agent.”
Mbappé’s explosive season puts him in a simultaneously fascinating, exciting and delicate position. Garde, like any Frenchman, is enthralled by what he sees but he also offers some gentle advice to the teenager: “If you can, stay concentrated only on football, please. Don’t forget you are only 18. Keep your dream of when you were a child, and try to forget everything around you when you are on the pitch. Realise what an opportunity it is to play in such a good collective team.
“If Mbappé is playing well it’s partly because alongside him is [Radamel] Falcao, a very experienced player. He has a very well-balanced team around him and a good manager. Football is very fragile. We have seen gifted players have a very good start who choose not to concentrate any more on football and focus on advertising or media or choose the wrong clubs at the wrong time. The advice would be to stay focused and not to forget you have everything at the moment in Monaco to become a better player. You have time in future to choose and change everything in your football life.
“So far he reminds me of Thierry [Henry]. Maybe he is more mature in his game already than Thierry was at the same time. When you consider what Thierry went on to achieve in the game it is amazing.”
Garde made a visit to England last week which bought back many memories and revived his desire to seek out another chance to coach in a country whose football culture made a huge impression on him. Even though his Aston Villa experience did not work out – it was a difficult situation he could not turn around in the few months he spent there – his own determination is undimmed. “I would have liked that this period lasted longer than it did, but that’s football life. Now I am only thinking about coming back one day in this country to work again and show I can be a manager here. I respect this club – especially the fans who were really supportive. I would be very happy to see Aston Villa once again in the Premier League.”
Garde went back to his former hunting ground to watch an Arsenal match and reflected on the difficult situation around his old boss, Wenger. “He is an unbelievable guy. It is difficult for me to imagine the end. I don’t know when that will be. I can say only he inspired me, the way I manage, the way I behave in life as well. I am sad to read the criticism of him and the bad words, because he committed the last 20 years to the club he loves so much.”
The vast majority of critics will never quite understand the life of a manager. “It’s a job that if you have not experienced it, it is very hard to understand. The problems are coming from different angles, coming everywhere. But it is because it is difficult that we love to do it. When you win a game, when you win a trophy, when you see young players come to the first team that you might have given a little bit of help to, it’s a very good feeling. You are always suffering for these short periods of happiness.”
Ajax v Lyon, 5.45pm, BT Sport 3
There will be no repeat of the 2014 and 2016 Champions League finals, though at least one side from Madrid is sure of a place on the grand stage for the third time in four years. Real Madrid are aiming to make Champions League history and retain their crown, having broken the record for consecutive semi-final appearances (seven) by successfully navigating their way past Bayern Munich, albeit in controversial circumstances.
Zinedine Zidane’s men have the welcome distraction of a title race but the Champions League is once again their top priority this season. Atlético also have a battle on their hands in the league, where they are trying to hold off Sevilla and secure a third-place finish and a spot in next season’s Champions League group stage, but winning this tie is also their main goal.
The two teams are in extremely similar shape in terms of results. They have both won eight of their last 10 games, lost one and drawn one (against each other last month at the Bernabéu). Real Madrid have only beaten Atlético once in their last six meetings at the Bernabéu, but that was in the Champions League. They will be glad to see Cristiano Ronaldo return to form. He scored five goals in the quarter-finals against Bayern and was on the scoresheet against Valencia at the weekend. Ronaldo scored a hat-trick when these sides met at the Vicente Calderón in November and will fancy competing against Atlético’s young, makeshift right-back Lucas Hernández.
A game billed as the best attack in Europe against the best defence in Europe. The lower quality of Ligue 1 defences has helped Monaco score a remarkable 95 goals in 34 league games, but they put six past Manchester City in the last-16 stage and another six past Borussia Dortmund in the quarter-finals, so should should not be underestimated.
No one is questioning Juventus’ credentials after they beat Barcelona with room to spare in the quarter-finals. They kept two clean sheets against Barcelona and have only conceded two goals in the competition all season. But, if anyone can ruin that record, then surely it’s neutrals favourites Monaco.
This is a game of great intrigue, orchestrated by two of the continent’s most sought after managers, both of whom have silenced critics in recent years. When Massimiliano Allegri joined Juventus in 2014 his appointment was seen as uninspiring but the former Milan boss has elevated Juve to another level since replacing Antonio Conte. Leonardo Jardim, meanwhile, was thought of as a pragmatic, organised coach but has flipped that reputation on its head by building one of the most exciting young teams seen in many years. All eyes will be on Kylian Mbappé and Paulo Dybala after their performances in the quarter-finals, and the prospect of seeing the pair on the same field is enough to tune in on Wednesday.
Manchester United are the favourites to lift the trophy but they are in desperate shape at the back. Luke Shaw and, more pertinently, Eric Bailly were both forced off during a disappointing 1-1 draw with Swansea at the weekend, and while the latter is only a doubt, it could mean Matteo Darmian is forced to cover alongside Daley Blind at centre-back.
Celta Vigo have players who are more than capable of taking advantage of a makeshift defence. Pione Sisto showed he can score against United in the Europa League last season, when he popped up with goals for Midtjylland in both legs of the last-32 tie, and John Guidetti (formerly of Manchester City) and Iago Aspas (formerly of Liverpool) will be up for this one. Aspas in particular has been in superb form all season, scoring 24 goals in all competitions and earning a call-up to the Spain squad at the age of 29.
In the absence of Zlatan Ibrahimovic it will be up to Anthony Martial or Marcus Rashford to carry the main goalscoring threat for the visitors, though they have each scored just once in the tournament to date and haven’t had many opportunities to forge a meaningful partnership. Home comforts have hardly helped United this season but José Mourinho may be happy to return to Old Trafford with a share of the spoils on Thursday night.
Both sides needed extra time – and in Lyon’s case penalties – to reach the semi-finals, but Ajax’s progression was the more remarkable. With only 10 minutes to go in extra time against Schalke, they were losing 3-2 on aggregate and down to 10 men. Somehow they fought back, scoring two very late goals in the the Veltins-Arena to book their spot in the semi-finals.
Nevertheless, Ajax will have to rebuild their morale after a defeat to PSV at the weekend that has likely ended their hopes of winning the Eredivisie. Peter Bosz’s men are the underdogs in this tie but they have won all six of their home games in the tournament to date, keeping five clean sheets, though the loss of vice-captain Joël Veltman through suspension is a blow.
Lyon are a side with enviable firepower. They have scored in all of their matches since dropping into the Europa League, with 19 goals in those six games. Alexandre Lacazette is the star man for the visitors but he is a real doubt after picking up a knee injury against Besiktas in the quarter-finals. If Lacazette is missing, Nabil Fekir could lead the line. With a direct hand in six goals in just 338 minutes of action in the tournament, he’s a more than capable replacement.
• Follow WhoScored on Twitter and Facebook• Follow Martin Laurence on Twitter
We only have to grit our teeth through five more weeks of hype and bombast before it finally gets underway. No, not the election: rugby union’s low-key British and Irish Lions tour. Remember when rugby league had Great Britain Lions touring down under? Well, if Nigel Wood has his way, the league Lions will return in 2019.
While all eyes will be on England’s outing against a strong-looking Samoa – well, those that have opted to pay to watch the live streaming that is, TV broadcasters having failed to meet the RFL’s market value – an arguably more important meeting will be taking place in Sydney this weekend. The RLIF board gather to finally confirm the 2018-21 international calendar.
The latest plan starts with England hosting a series against New Zealand in autumn 2018. That is straightforward enough. The Federations Cup event due to take place in 2019 has been railroaded by the ARL’s obsession with hosting a Nines tournament instead. When that will take place, and how the top three will work their schedule around it, should be clarified this weekend. Given that they also need to fit in the final stage of qualifying for World Cup 2021, organising all that will take some doing.
In an interview on the BBC over the weekend, Wood, the Rugby League International Federation chairman, suggested that Great Britain will tour Australia and New Zealand in 2019 with Australia travelling north for an Ashes series in 2020. This makes much more sense than what my sources tell me was originally being discussed: England touring in 2019 and Great Britain not being revived until the Australians visit us.
So fingers crossed we will see Great Britain’s first appearance since 2007, the first full Lions tour since 1996, and their first trip down under since the 2006 Tri-Nations. It is more than about time. Maybe the cacophony of hype surrounding the British & Irish Lions squad announcement prompted the RFL into realising a League Lions tour needed to happen ASAP.
Whatever Wood and his cohorts arrange, it will be the modern version of a “proper tour”, and considerably shorter than this summer’s six-week, 10-game slog that includes five games against top Super Rugby teams. That would be like the League Lions playing five NRL teams as well as three Kangaroo tests. No wonder Graham Henry called it “suicidal”. The players’ union and the clubs, who pay them all six-figure salaries, have put their feet down and the next union Lions tour will shorter by at least a week and two games.
Before you start saving for 2019, remember that we have heard all this before. Indeed, the RLIF’s international calendar published in 2013 had Great Britain touring in 2015 and 2019, leaving England to play in the European Championship. Tear that up. And given that the current plan has the Kangaroos coming to these shores in two successive years, something they are not that keen on, this may be all smoke and no fire.
Better news is that New Zealand are considering a proposal to play France, Scotland, Wales and Ireland too, when they tour next year. That makes sense, given the club season will be over, but the RLIF will have to provide the home nations with the wherewithal to fly their NRL stars over as they will need to be at full strength. If that happens, it will make the European Cup, which will run concurrently featuring those three, Italy and an England second string, more attractive to broadcasters, sponsors and fans. The RFL also plan to field a suitable England team in the Euros in 2020 and 2022. What will happen when the home nations’ best players are in a GB squad facing Australia in the Ashes, is anyone’s guess.
“Where might you go on holiday and discover rugby league nirvana?” I asked Danny Kazandjian, the Rugby League European Federation boss, the other day. “The Czech Republic,” he replied instantly. “They’ve got 11 senior teams now, as well as four Under-18s and two women’s.” Nascent rugby league programmes are growing in all sorts of countries. Spain have launched an Under-21 side; Russia have a nine-club league and a student competition; Turkey have just finished their seasons; Norway have seven teams and will play Sweden next month; and Holland will have a four-team competition this year for the first time.
“It’s going well in Holland,” added Kazandjian. “They’re arguably the best-governed member in RLEF. A lot of the credit goes to Kane Krilic, who is John Kear’s stepson. He got it going there before going to work at the RFL. Jason Bruygoms took over and put so much into it. Certain people in RLEF history deserve a statue built of them and he’s one of them!”
And tams off to Jamaica, where 142 games of rugby league games were played last year, making it the fourth most-active nation among RLEF members behind England, France and Wales. “That’s a huge credit to the guys over there,” said Kazandjian. “But so is the fact that more than half of their revenue is now generated domestically, not from outside funding.”
When Toronto Wolfpack finally make their home debut at a (hopefully) packed Lamport Stadium on Saturday night, their opponents might struggle to get much of a mention. But Oxford RL have had a decent season so far, so much so that they could not focus on the Toronto trip until early this week. Last Sunday they had another seven-hour trip north-west, this time to Barrow, for the League One Cup semi-final. It did not go well, Barrow showing why they are Toronto’s main competition, romping to a 64-14 victory.
“There was a buzz about it once we knew we were playing Toronto away but there’s been a massive emphasis on the Barrow game,” admitted Oxford and Scotland centre Harvey Burnett. “We don’t even know who’s going yet. The team will be announced on Tuesday, as usual, and we’ve had no involvement in the planning. All we had to do was get Thursday to Monday off work, which I think everyone has managed. You’re not going to miss that, are you?!” Given their hammering in Furness, we can only wish Tim Rumford’s side a safe journey.
While some scorelines in League One are alarmingly lop-sided, so is the range of club size in the Championship. Hull KR (with over 8000 against Featherstone recently) and Bradford (despite still being bottom) are getting ten times the attendances at London, Swinton, Rochdale and Oldham. It is like the Scottish Premier League. However, when the haves and have nots meet on the pitch, the contest can be fierce and splendidly competitive. Part-timers Featherstone and Halifax are both in the mix for a top four play-off spot again and leaders Hull KR only beat Rochdale 24-16 on Sunday.
There was a different imbalance at Ealing: London Broncos (last in Super League in 2014) have 30 full-time players and do seven or eight sessions a week, Swinton (last in the top flight in 1991) have 23 part-timers and train three times. Last Saturday they had 18 at training with two borrowed from Wigan recalled at the 11th hour, leaving coach John Duffy with just one fit and available player to leave out.
Swinton, who seem to be well-run with a small enthusiastic fan base and a fine young coaching team - four of whom worked with Scotland at the Four Nations last year - should benefit greatly on 14 May when they host Wigan in the Challenge Cup at what should be a sold-out Sale. Finishing higher than last season’s ninth may prove beyond them but avoiding the drop could be considered success.
After two impressive wins over Easter, London Broncos appeared to be well and truly back on the, err… ahem, horse and galloping over the horizon when they raced into a 30-6 lead over struggling Swinton on Sunday. Not so fast. As is so often the case for teams playing down Trailfinders’ slope, Swinton had a fine second half, closing the gap to four points for the last 10 nervous minutes. Then Broncos’ teenage sub Lewis Bienek skittled the Swinton full-back to smash his way to the winning try. England youth cap Bienek first played league at Charlton Gunners and is the latest product of the Broncos’ academy, along with right winger Kameron Pierce-Paul of Orpington, who had a less enjoyable time, being targeted by the Lions.
Broncos boss Andrew Henderson has been criticised for giving youth a chance but not being sufficiently patient with them and paying lip service to the “London team for London” mantra. Yet more players are getting an opportunity on the first team stage. Even without their top two talents, the Broncos Under-19s beat City of Hull 30-18 in the curtain-raiser and the Under-16s gave Leeds a good game in the, erm, curtain-faller (Leeds winning 42-28).
With the unselected Kieran Dixon, injured Michael Channing and Bradford’s Iliess Macani watching on from the stand, in a week which could culminate in Basingstoke native Mike McMeeken making his England debut, there can be little doubt that the Broncos and London RL are doing a fine job with limited resources. There are now enough current full-time rugby league players from down south to fill a matchday squad, something unthinkable a decade or so ago.
Follow No Helmets Required on Twitter and Facebook
The first time Kerry Packer died was on Sunday 7 October, 1990. He had a heart attack during a polo match. Three minutes into the first chukka he slumped down, arms around the neck of his horse. He was clinically dead and stayed that way until he was brought back to life with a defibrillator.
When Packer was asked about the experience he replied: “I’ve been to the other side, and let me tell you son, there’s fucking nothing there.” When he died for the second, and final, time in 2005, they played a clip of a TV interview at his memorial service. “The good news is that there’s no devil, the bad news is that there’s no heaven,” he said. “There’s nothing.” The moral, Packer suggested, was that you should do what you want.
And for much of his life, he did. Packer collected tall stories like a general does his ribbons. Wisden once listed five favourite tales that, it clarified, were “believed to have a basis in truth”. Even the punctilious staff of the Almanack were happy to relax their strict adherence to the facts for the sake of a good Packer yarn. They included the time he shut up a loudmouth American who kept bragging he was worth $200m by offering to toss him for it, “double or nothing”. And another when, turned away from one pub, he ate somewhere else, settled the £100 bill by writing a cheque for £100,000 and told the publican: “Before you bank it, take it to the other pub and show it to the bloke who wouldn’t give us any food.”
There will be plenty more of them on BBC Radio 5 Live later this week. On Wednesday evening it is airing a programme about the tallest Packer tale of them all, World Series Cricket. Ian Chappell tells one about the TV director Peter Faiman, who used to do the live shows for Packer’s Channel 9. When Faiman tried to quit his job, Packer offered him more money to stay on. Faiman turned him down. So Packer offered him a new job title too. When Faiman explained his decision wasn’t anything to do with influence or affluence but just because he was “feeling so bad now I could kill myself” Packer pulled a gun out of his desk and said: “I can fix that too.”
The World Series Cricket story first broke 40 years ago this week, in early May 1977, after it was leaked to Ian Wooldridge and the Daily Mail. “Cricket ‘Circus’ Threat to Test Matches” ran the Guardian’s front page headline. Those first reports suggested Packer was planning a series between Australia and the Rest of the World, that Tony Greig, Derek Underwood, Alan Knott and John Snow had signed up, and so had Clive Lloyd, Viv Richards, Gordon Greenidge, Andy Roberts, Imran Khan, Barry Richards and Mike Procter. In the end WSC was much grander than that. Packer eventually hired 70 players for 16 “Supertests” and 38 one-day games over two seasons.
Christopher Martin-Jenkins wrote “with the possible exception of WG Grace” – astonishing that he thought he had to add the caveat – “there has been no more influential figure in the history of cricket”. It was Packer who brought in coloured kit, floodlit day/night matches, white balls, and drop-in pitches grown in greenhouses. It was Packer who insisted players start wearing helmets, because, as he told Chappell: “I’m not paying you to lie around in hospital for six months.” It was Packer who overhauled the way the game was televised and marketed. And it was Packer who forced the boards to start paying the players more. Before WSC, England’s players were earning £210 per Test. Soon after it, they were on over £1,000.
Packer was always honest about why he did all this. It wasn’t for the love of the game. “Is it right that you went into the Supertest business to make money?” he was once asked under cross-examination in the high court. “Of course,” he replied, “I have never said anything else.” All he wanted from it were the exclusive broadcasting rights to Australia’s matches. It took him three years to win them, and in that time he changed the game forever.
On the BBC, Chappell argues the IPL is a “descendant” of the WSC. And there is truth in that, in the way the IPL is packaged and sold to a mainstream audience, the pressure it puts on players to choose between representing their country and playing in a lucrative league. Like WSC, the IPL has forced the sport into accelerated evolution.
There are broader trends, too. Now, as then, Cricket Australia finds itself in the thick of a dispute with its own players over how much it is paying them. The players today may not be on “fish and chip” money, as Chappell used to call it, but the Australian Cricketers’ Association have just knocked back CA’s proposal to pay them AU$419m over five years, an offer the ACA say will short change female players. Now, as then, the question of TV rights is up in the air, in Australia and elsewhere.
So many of the currents that swirled around Packer and the WSC are eddying again today and the game once again seems to be entering stormy waters.
The difference is that WSC was only ever a means to an end. Packer wanted the TV rights and when he had them WSC was shut down. But who knows where the IPL and Twenty20 cricket goes from here?
• This is an extract taken from the Spin, the Guardian’s weekly cricket email. To subscribe, just visit this page and follow the instructions.
The 24 years since Argentina last won a trophy are frustrating enough but they have been given additional edge of late by the suspicion that the conveyor belt that brought five Under-20 World Cups between 1995 and 2007 is not delivering talent at anything like the same rate. Lionel Messi, Sergio Agüero and Gonzalo Higuaín will all be older than 30 by the time of the next World Cup final: when they are gone, who can replace them?
The answer probably lies in Turin, with a 23-year-old who could have played for Poland. Paulo Dybala has won only six caps so far – an indicator of the congestion ahead of him rather than his own ability – but at the moment he looks the likeliest candidate to be the focal point of the Argentina attack at the Qatar World Cup in 2022. It may be that he has been elevated by Russia next year.
Dybala has scored nine goals and created six for Juventus in Serie A this season, after scoring 19 and setting up nine last year. His two goals against Barcelona in the Champions League quarter-final took his tally in the competition to four in seven starts this campaign. In a team that is very structured and defensively very sound, he is the spark, the player who can do something to unlock a game. “I call Dybala ‘Square R2’,” said Paul Pogba, whose relationship with Dybala was perhaps the central factor in their scudetto last season. “That’s the combination you press on PlayStation to do a turn and shot. He always scores like that.”
His more usual nickname, la Joya – “the Jewel” – was given to him by an Argentinian journalist after he scored in his second game for the Cordoba side Instituto when he was 17, taking the record for the club’s youngest goalscorer from Mario Kempes. But really, like so many Argentinians, his is an immigrant’s story and begins long before he was born.
Dybala’s grandfather, Boleslaw, grew up working for a priest in Krasniow, a village in southern Poland about 40 miles north-east of Krakow. During the second world war he was sent to work in Germany. When he returned home he found there were no jobs so decided to emigrate to Argentina. He knew nobody there, had no connections and spent the first two weeks sleeping in a cornfield before finding work. His brother went to Canada and would send him a card and a communion wafer every Christmas. Boleslaw had forgotten his Polish and had to have the letters translated.
Boleslaw died when Dybala was four but the impression he made on his grandson remains strong. When Dybala left Instituto for Palermo in 2012 and needed a European passport, he initially tried to take Polish citizenship. The bureaucracy involved, though, proved too complicated and he instead applied for an Italian passport through his mother’s side of the family, which is from near Naples.
At first Dybala was an enganche, the play-making “hook” linking midfield and attack, but his interpretation of the role was never conventional. As his strike partner in the youth ranks at Instituto, Gustavo Gotti, recalls, there was always a maturity and an efficiency about the way he played. “They say that when you’re a kid a great player will go past 10,” Gotti said. “Not him. He cleaned out one and then gave you the right pass. He played fast, simple – he made a difference with shots from outside the area. A little like what he does now.”
It was in 2011 when the real breakthrough came. Instituto’s youth side went to play in the Torneo Esperanza Alba, a competition organised by Colo Colo in Santiago, Chile, and their coach, Francisco Buteler, decided to push Dybala forward alongside Gotti. At first he was reluctant, seeing himself in the great Argentinian tradition of No 10s, but by the end of the year he was playing for the first team and had become la Joya.
That awareness of both roles is key to Dybala, who can play either as an out-and- out striker or off a front man. In that sense he is a very modern player, a complete forward, a dribbler who dribbles only sparingly. The Uruguayan former Manchester United forward Diego Forlán has compared him to Agüero, which seems more accurate than the inevitable description of him as “the new Messi”.
But if he is like Agüero, it is Agüero as he was playing alongside Forlán at Atlético when he was much more likely to drop deep than he is now. Dybala is probably not such an instinctive finisher as his compatriot but his range of movement and of attributes is probably greater. In that sense he is the player it looked as if Agüero might become, the player Pep Guardiola would seemingly like Agüero to be, rather than the fairly orthodox (and highly effective) forward Agüero now is.
Against Monaco on Wednesday in the first leg of the Champions League semi-final, it seems probable that Dybala will play behind Higuaín. The partnership, with Mario Mandzukic to one side and Juan Cuadrado to the other, has proved highly effective this season but it could also be a template for Argentina to follow.
Only six runners go to post for the fillies’ handicap at Nottingham on Tuesday afternoon, one of three races on the card with a five-figure prize fund, but it is still an interesting and competitive race of its kind and every runner goes to post with a chance. It is difficult to get away from the favourite La Casa Tarifa (3.45), though, and a price of around 15-8 looks very fair about Mark Johnston’s filly completing a hat-trick.
Tuesday’s race is, inevitably, a more demanding assignment than either of her previous starts in five-runner fields at Chelmsford and Ripon respectively, and La Casa Tarifa had only a length to spare at the end of her most recent success at the Yorkshire track.
She was slow from the stalls there though, and Franny Norton also had to wait for an opening before launching a winning run from just over a furlong out. In the circumstances, a rise of only 4lb in the weights for Tuesday’s assignment looks very fair, and while both Normandie Lady and Lincoln Rocks are potentially stern opponents, neither has had a run so far this year.
On Fire (4.50) has been in good form on the all-weather over the winter and could find a little improvement for the step up to a mile and three quarters today on the same card, while Batten The Hatches (5.25), another runner arriving from an outing on the all-weather last time, starts out on a fair mark and is a good bet at around 7-2 to make a successful handicap debut.
The card at Brighton opens with an interesting novice auction event that should come down to a match between Starlight Mystery and Floss The Hoss (2.00), who contested different divisions of a maiden at Beverley a couple of weeks ago. The betting sides strongly with Starlight Mystery, who finished third in her race, two lengths behind the winner, but while Floss The Hoss was four and a quarter lengths adrift at the line, the winner’s time was almost a second quicker. At a top price of 5-2 against the 8-13 favourite, Floss The Hoss has to be the pick.
Bahamian Sunrise (3.00) is a course-and-distance winner on the same card, which is always a positive at Brighton, and made a very promising return from his winter break over six furlongs at the same track last week. Tuesday’s extended five is probably his ideal and he is a very solid bet at around 13-8, while Paddy A (6.40) may well be able to get off the mark at Chelmsford on Tuesday evening.
Charlie McBride’s three-year-old ran well to finish fourth on his first start since the autumn last time out, and that was also his first run since being gelded, which seems to have settled the headstrong tendencies he showed last year. He drops to Class 6 company today with James Doyle booked to ride by the trainer for only the fourth time in a decade, which suggests he is very much primed for action.
Ickymasho (7.40) could hardly be in better form and should complete a hat-trick later on the card, while at Yarmouth, Gothic Empire (4.30) should be able to build on his recent return to action on the all-weather now that he is back on turf.
Brighton
2.00 Floss The Hoss 2.30 Otomo 3.00 Bahamian Sunrise (nb) 3.35 Lorelina 4.10 Ettie Hart 4.40 Black Caesar 5.10 Hold Firm
Nottingham
2.10 Silver Bullet 2.40 Meteor Light 3.10 Scribner Creek 3.45 La Casa Tarifa (nap) 4.20 Midnight Vixen 4.50 On Fire 5.25 Batten The Hatches
Chelmsford City
6.10 Dorcas 6.40 Paddy A 7.10 Mabrook 7.40 Ickymasho 8.10 Zac Brown 8.40 Frank The Barber 9.10 Pete So High
Wolverhampton
6.00 Senor George 6.30 Brimham Rocks 7.00 Al Nafoorah 7.30 Oratorio’s Joy 8.00 Russian Ranger 8.30 Our Kid 9.00 Prince Of Time
Yarmouth
2.20 To Wafij 2.50 Ocelot 3.25 Hope Is High 4.00 Fantasy Gladiator 4.30 Gothic Empire 5.00 Across Dubai 5.30 The Yellow Bus
Imagine if the last 20 years of English club rugby had passed without a single player from overseas – let alone the rest of Britain and Ireland – featuring in the Premiership. How immeasurably greyer our sporting lives would have been.
The thought occurred over the weekend, as Nick Evans bear-hugged his Harlequins director of rugby, John Kingston, and Kelly Brown treated Saracens’ fans to his best post-match Bon Jovi impression, that the finest imports are not measured purely by on-field deeds. Better, perhaps, to gauge their contribution by the size of the hole they leave behind, not simply as players but as people, too.
There are no shortage of inspirational examples: Pat Lam at Northampton around the turn of the century, Michael Lynagh and Philippe Sella in the early days at Saracens, Agustín Pichot at Bristol and Richmond, Dean Mumm at Exeter. Then there are the hard men: Olivier Azam and Terry Fanolua at Gloucester, Trever Leota at Wasps, Jacques Burger at Saracens. Maybe a local lad could have contributed some of what they delivered but no-one could have given more.
Not every signing works out, for assorted reasons. For every George Smith, Marcos Ayerza and Andre Vos there will always be one or two who come for the pension. But when you reflect on the joy and thrills supplied by, say, David Lemi, Sailosi Tagicakibau, Sinoti Sinoti and Telusa Veainu, and the sheer thunderous impact of, among others, Samu Manoa and Louis Picamoles, it becomes impossible to argue the growth of English youth has been stunted by a tidal wave of mediocrity from elsewhere.
So, in the past 20 years, who have been the best five overseas signings to grace this country’s pitches? Clearly this is an imprecise exercise: how can you calibrate the worth of the calm, intelligent, wonderfully unselfish Neil de Kock against forces of nature such as Picamoles or Leota? What price another under-rated, smart scrum-half such as Eoin Reddan against Pat Howard or Aaron Mauger, princely players who broadened many minds at Leicester? The only solution is to seek the best of both worlds: great players who generated not just respect during their time in England but genuine, one-of-us love.
The only other rule is that the final five have to be drawn from five different nations. My quintet, for what it is worth, starts with Evans, who gave up on a potential shedload of caps for the All Blacks (albeit as Dan Carter’s understudy) when he relocated to London in 2008. Harlequins tended to be a different team when a fully fit Evans was in their XV; his distinctive high-stepping Hickstead-esque kicking run-up became almost as familiar as his match-turning passes or drop-goals. New Zealand’s loss has repeatedly been The Stoop’s gain, right up until the end.
Next up is Va’aiga Tuigamala – Inga the winger – who qualifies for this select group via his Samoan heritage. He also played more Tests for Samoa than he did for New Zealand but, above all else, taught everyone at Wigan and Newcastle Falcons what class looked like regardless of the code he was playing. His faith was even stronger and his example is still talked about two decades on from Newcastle’s title-winning heyday.
Prop forwards could probably hijack this list on their own – Soane Tonga’uiha, Martin Castrogiovanni, Carl Hayman – but none gave more unstinting service or more consistent value than Ayerza, whose 11-year stay in the East Midlands has finally been ended through injury. So committed to the Tigers’ cause did he become he even named one of his polo ponies Welford Road and having shared in three Premiership titles as well as played 66 Tests for the Pumas, his twin loyalties could never be questioned.
Which leaves two more from a cast of hundreds. With apologies to Lam, Felipe Contempomi, Seilala Mapasua, Thomas Castaignede, Francois Pienaar, Niki Goneva, Dan Braid, Charles Piutau and Kurtley Beale, one of simply them has to be Burger, the hard-as-nails Namibian skipper who helped Saracens become the most feared defensive unit in Europe. When you consider he also overcame knee surgery that would have made a rhino wince, his strength of character was almost superhuman. For his performance in Saracens’ famous 46-6 win over Clermont in a European semi-final alone, he deserves his place on this roll of honour.
And the fifth man? Slightly less obvious, perhaps, but 316 games and a fistful of trophies for his adopted club are decent credentials. He is still there in a coaching capacity and his old team-mates still talk in awe-struck tones about what he could do with a rugby ball in training. Geordan Murphy has now been based in Leicester for over half his life, the kind of commitment that says it all. English club rugby has a huge amount to thank its imported talent for.
Everyone is warning of the inevitable physical toll awaiting the Lions in New Zealand but there is another slant to the story. In recent days two key members of the All Black back row – Jerome Kaino and Kieran Read – have undergone surgery to repair knee and thumb damage respectively; both should be fit again by the time the Test series comes around but may be short of match practice. Sam Warburton is in the same boat, of course, but the previously sidelined Vunipola brothers and Taulupe Faletau look like men peaking physically at just the right time. The Lions are not alone in needing to brace themselves.
Congratulations to Hartpury RFC who have become the first National One side to be promoted to the Championship with a perfect 100% record. They amassed 30 straight wins, 28 of them with a bonus point, and their Lithuanian winger Jonas Mikalcius topped the league’s try-scoring list with 36. Mikalcius is dual-registered with Harlequins and is definitely a name to watch.
Just when the County Championship narrative began to build with a logjam at the top of Division One, with Gary Ballance and Darren Stevens adding personal stories to colour the picture, cricket shifts to its white ball format – of course it does. At least the Royal London One-Day Cup got off to a spectacular start with an early contender for innings of the season. After Ben Foakes’s 92 had lifted Surrey to a competitive 290, Somerset collapsed to 22-5, the swing of Jade Dernbach (remember him?) and Sam Curran too much for the experienced top order. Dean Elgar – a very classy operator these days – was joined by fellow South African, Roelof van der Merwe and the long reconstruction job began. While the Test man dug in, the all-rounder chanced his arm and the runs kept coming, but the wickets didn’t. Elgar departed with the stand worth 213, but Van der Merwe only walked off when the job was done, his share 165.
In a moment as epochal as “Dylan goes electric”, Haseeb Hameed faced his first delivery in white ball cricket (from his former team-mate, Gavin Griffiths – please note future historians) and top scored for Lancashire with 88 at the unBaby-Boycottish strike rate of 87. It wasn’t enough, as solid contributions through the Leicestershire order got them over the line under the Old Trafford lights with four balls to spare. I’ll leave the final comment on this match to my brother, who spends some time in the Scandinavian winter, but still opined: “Night cricket in April was an cold as I have been for a long time.” Where do cricket’s administrators get their scheduling ideas (see Ball Six for more madness)?
Two names once touted (by some – possibly me) as the next big things in English cricket put together a stand of 168 to help Derbyshire overhaul Northamptonshire’s 307-7. Both were teenage proteges, but Billy Godleman and Shiv Thakor never quite delivered the outputs their youthful reputations once suggested. Godleman is now 28 and captain of Derbyshire – never an easy hand to play – but his 95 was the kind of innings captains play. Thakor is (incredibly really) still only 23 and will revel in a match that saw him take 3-39 in nine overs and then make 130 at better than a run a ball. That might just kick start his season after a slow start – and a good season might kickstart a career that is not a failure, but not the success (as yet) once expected. He has time on his side.
Middlesex’s top five were swept aside by Liam Norwell, who bowled a nagging length, hitting the seam hard to extract movement from a Lord’s pitch that, for once, offered the lateral variations its look suggested. Props too to Gloucestershire skipper Michael Klinger who, in a format often seen as formulaic for captains, bowled his man through his 10 overs from the Pavilion End, recognising that Norwell was in a good rhythm and that he could break the back of the home side’s batting in the first 20 overs. That said, he was missed when Toby Roland-Jones batted like the “Martin Bicknell all-rounder” (i.e. one with both averages hovering around 25–30) he is rapidly becoming, to get Middlesex up to 250 – an old-school score in an old-school match. In a curious parallel, Gloucestershire’s innings was also rescued by a late middle-order stand, Benny Howell joining centurion Ian Cockbain to deliver a classy stand of 192, enough which to see the visitors home with five balls to spare.
If the famous yellow book is too slabby and pricey for you, the Shorter Wisden 2017 is available as an e-book at £7.67 – leaving you considerably less short of cash, but definitely not short of reading. You get the heart and soul of the grand old almanack (though not that evocative fading ochreish stripe across the bookshelves) and it’s much easier to read on a commute or if, like mine, your eyes are deteriorating as fast as your waistline is expanding. Be warned! I had to wipe away a tear between London Bridge and Bank as I read Martin Crowe’s obituary and I raised a wry smile reading Ronnie Cockbain’s (Ian’s grandfather), recalling how he sledged me while carting my teenage outswingers all round Bootle CC then later sought me out in the bar to talk cricket for an hour to a mad keen kid. Though I have affectionately parodied the obits (here, here and here), it’s pretty much impossible to do so these days – real cricketing lives are more funny, more eccentric and more bloody decent than anything that could be conjured by mere imagination.
Parents will know the feeling: “Not another Bank Holiday so soon after Easter!” Perhaps a day at the cricket? Well, it was an option if you live near Birmingham or Leeds, but nowhere else. The rest of the country were denied professional cricket on May Day. Is it beyond the wit of the game to schedule nine matches across the country? Why not call it “A Festival of Cricket”, offer free entry for everyone and give all kids a free ticket to a T20 game later in the season? Have BBC 5 Live reporters around the grounds, interviewing players on the boundary. Broadcast a live game or two on Sky and thereby generate some much needed publicity for the domestic game at the start of the white ball season? Yes, there’s the weather, and no doubt other reasons why not – but if anyone listened to the naysayers on Broadhalfpenny Down back in the day, we wouldn’t have the game at all!
• This is an article from the The 99.4 Cricket Blog• Follow Gary Naylor on Twitter
Luke Shaw could miss the start of next season because of the foot injury he sustained in Manchester United’s 1-1 draw with Swansea City on Sunday.
A scan undertaken by the left-back on Tuesday morning revealed serious ligament damage, with it being understood Shaw fears he may not be able to recover until after the start of the 2017-18 campaign.
Shaw was forced off after nine minutes at Old Trafford and appeared in some pain. After the match United’s manager, José Mourinho, said: “Luke Shaw’s must be a big injury because to leave the pitch after 10 minutes I am expecting a very big injury.”
The injury is a severe blow to Shaw. It is his second serious problem in two years after the double leg break he suffered during a 2-1 Champions League loss at PSV Eindhoven in September 2015.
Shaw did not recover from that setback until this season and had endured a difficult first season under Mourinho. The Portuguese has often criticised the 21-year-old, the first time coming after a 3-1 defeat at Watford in September. He has also implored Shaw to ensure the “football brain and professional brain” match his talent, and has dropped him completely from match-day squads on several occasions.
This caused Shaw to consider his future at the club, although publicly he vowed to prove Mourinho wrong and had fought his way back into contention.
Shaw’s absence means Mourinho will be without eight injured players for Thursday’s Europa League semi-final first leg at Celta Vigo.
There is a chant that Atlético Madrid fans have launched into a lot in recent years, dug up again as the rivalry with Real Madrid was resuscitated, leaving behind its status as a virtual irrelevance to become arguably the best derby on the planet. “Players, players,” it implores, “we’ve come here to win, let those Vikings know who rules in the capital.” The Vikings are Real, and increasingly the answer was “us” – which is why they sang it of course.
“Over the last four or five years especially, they have made it very difficult for us,” Zinedine Zidane said on Monday. That was quite the understatement. They sang it when Atlético won the Copa del Rey, beating Real at the Bernabéu in 2013; when Atlético won the league the following season; and when they hammered Real 4-0 in the league the season after that. They sang it recently when Antoine Griezmann’s late goal denied Real a derby victory and, Atlético briefly hoped, the title. For the fourth consecutive league season, Diego Simeone’s side left the Bernabéu unbeaten, having won the previous three – something no team had ever done.
They were entitled to sing it, for sure. Over the last four seasons, Atlético have been better than Real. One Copa del Rey, one league title and a Spanish Super Cup versus a Spanish Super Cup and a Copa del Rey, plus a Cup knockout and just one defeat in the past eight league meetings. Domestically, they have been better, anyway. But if Atlético fans have sung it a lot, Sergio Ramos belted out Real’s own version of the same song after they claimed their 10th European Cup in Lisbon in 2014 – and that’s the thing. “Let those Indians know who rules in the capital,” Ramos sang and the “Indians” knew; how could they not? Losing in Lisbon hurt; defeat in Milan two years later was agony. Juanfran Torres, who missed the vital penalty, wrote an open letter to the fans vowing to return: he would see the captain, Gabi Fernández, lift that trophy. “I hope he’s right,”? Gabi said here, two games from a third final in four years. “That is a feeling we all have, but you can’t do it just with your heart. We’re on the right path [but] we need to produce an almost perfect game.”
They have done so before, just not yet on this stage. It is one thing ruling in the capital, it is another on the continent, even if it is played out in the same city. Europe has been Real’s elixir and Atlético’s Kryptonite, and much of the build‑up to this game focused on memory and pressure, the Real full-back Dani Carvajal saying: “If the past has to weigh on someone, let it be them.”
“We have forgotten previous years, we start again each season: tomorrow we just want to be in Cardiff,” Carvajal continued and, asked if Atlético might be driven by anger, the desire for revenge he said: “No, with their weapons. They will forget the past: it’s a new season, a new Champions League.” Zidane, too, evaded suggestions that Real have a mental advantage. “You can’t live off the past,” he said. “What happened, happened. This is totally different. They’ll do everything to go through.”
The past is there, though: so recent, so inescapable, so absolute. This is the fourth season in a row they have met in the Champions League, after all, and until now Real have won them all, including a quarter-final in 2015. No team have eliminated Simeone’s Atlético from Europe but their greatest rivals. Asked what would be different this time Gabi said: “We hope the result will be.”
The European Cup has treated these clubs very differently. Real are on course for a first domestic and European double since 1958. They have won eight European Cups since then, the continental crown eclipsing all else, amply compensating for not winning the domestic title. Real embraced this competition, forging their identity through the first five successes, which created an obsession.
Atlético feel that obsession too now, for very different reasons, although Gabi preferred to call it a hope. Part of their identity also had its roots in Europe, albeit this was an identity they sought to shake off. Atlético have reached three finals but never won. Bayern Munich’s Hans-Georg Schwarzenbeck denied them the title in 1974, prompting Vicente Calderón to coin the term el pupas, the jinxed one – an identity that accompanied them back to Spain, and to the capital especially. Atlético knew who they were, and who they were not. El pupas was a bit of myth at times but it lived on, especially in the derbies from 1999, when Atlético suffered the only relegation in their history. Fifteen years they went without beating Real: 25 games, not one victory, each defeat seemingly more cruel than the last. Simeone ended that with a cup and the league, but in Europe its hold was strong. Three meetings, three defeats: an equaliser three minutes into injury time and a penalty shoot-out in the finals, plus an 88th-minute goal from Javier Hernández in the quarter-final here.
Milan had been the game of their lives, Fernando Torres said, and they lost again. Simeone likened the weeks after to a period of mourning. El pupas rose again; now they have the opportunity to bury him for good, but standing before them are those Vikings. They will not back down, but nor will Real.
“Atlético never give in, they always fight, battle, and use their weapons in the best way,” Zidane said. “What happened is history but you learn a lot from defeat,” Diego Godín insisted. “They are different games, a different scenario.”
Sure, but they are there. “We have to control our emotions,” Gabi said. “We have that desire, that longing for the Champions League.”
As a girl in west London, Rebecca Lowe simply aspired to be like her mother, Judith, and become an actor. So how in the world did Lowe end up as a sports broadcaster on a US television network, with a weekly commute across America?
“I have loved football since I was very, very small, and my dad used to take me to games,” she told the Guardian recently. “That’s what comes from my dad.”
Her father is Chris Lowe, a longtime BBC News presenter before he retired in 2009. So when she wound up landing a job in 2013 as host of NBC Sports’ Premier League coverage, she was following in her family’s broadcasting tradition.
She has been married for nearly four years to Paul Buckle, an English former player and manager who is now the coach of the Sacramento Republic, a club in the second-tier United Soccer League. They have a son, Edward Christopher, or Teddy.
So now Lowe flies from her home near Lake Tahoe to the NBC studio in Stamford, Connecticut, where she anchors NBC’s live pre-game, half-time and post-game coverage, most of it in the mornings because of the time difference.
Her English accent adds authenticity to NBC’s coverage, but she says she is just trying to be herself – neither playing up her nationality nor playing it down. “There’s enough to deal with from changing from British TV to American TV,” she says. “We’re not trying to be something we’re not.”
The Premier League, of course has less of a tradition in the US than it does in England, but she says: “We can teach without being patronizing. I’m pretty proud of what we’ve done. We feel, at this moment, like we’re getting the balance right.”
Lowe has earned high marks for her approach to the job. She signed a six-year contract extension with NBC last year that will keep her in her current job until 2022. She has also been an NBC presenter at the 2014 and 2016 Olympics, and she will participate again in 2018, 2020 and 2022. She says she likes the Olympics because it is different, more mainstream.
But she is still very much the network’s face of the Premier League. Asked if she felt like she was a de facto ambassador for English football in the US, she laughs and says: “The Premier League is the product. It sells itself. It represents itself so naturally. I’m just a messenger.”
This is not Lowe’s first go-round in America. During her gap year between Notting Hill & Ealing High School and the University of East Anglia, she studied at the Mercersburg Academy, in south-central Pennsylvania.
“I’m not a trekker, not a backpacker,” she says.
But she already was a football fan. Her dad was a longtime supporter of Crystal Palace, and he’d often take Rebecca and her brother, Alex, who is now a sports reporter for the Times of London.
But Lowe did not really know she wanted to try becoming a broadcaster until 2002, when she decided to fill out an application for the BBC’s talent search for a new football reporter after graduating. She chose not to reveal then that her father was a BBC news presenter.
“I didn’t know if it would be a good thing or a bad thing,” she says.
After she beat about 650 other applicants to win the search, she recalls a BBC employee referring to her father’s connection with the network and saying: “Thank God you didn’t tell us that. They were actually kind of glad I didn’t tell them.”
She was a football reporter for the BBC for five years, filing reports and features. She was one of three network reporters at the 2006 World Cup in Germany. After two years in a similar role at Setanta Sports, she joined ESPN UK in 2009, hosting that network’s Premier League coverage from England.
When her contract with ESPN UK ran out in 2013, Lowe was not sure she wanted to continue in broadcasting. She says: “I was finding out that I wasn’t really enjoying it as much as I wanted to.”
NBC Sports had announced in late 2012 that it had signed a three-year, $250m deal to televise Premier League games in English and Spanish beginning in the 2013-4 season. The network needed talent. Lowe’s agent called her. NBC had something for her.
She and her husband had only got married in June 2013, with the NBC job requiring them to move to the United States. Her husband stepped down as the manager of Luton Town and, Lowe says, “was forced to start again from scratch.” He became the technical director at the Metropolitan Oval soccer academy in Queens, New York.
Later, Buckle returned to England to coach Cheltenham Town, but his stay was brief and unsuccessful, so he returned to the US. He was hired in Sacramento in July 2015, when Rebecca was expecting Teddy.
One weekend every Premier League season, she does get to return to England for professional reasons, playing host to a version of the US broadcast, only from the side of the pitch, similar to NBC’s NFL telecasts late in the season. This year’s shows were televised from White Hart Lane, Old Trafford and the Riverside.
The Manchester United-Chelsea match, with an 11am ET kickoff, drew nearly a million viewers in the US. Through 26 April, six matches televised by NBC have drawn at least a million viewers. NBC Sports has televised 16 of the top 20 matches aired live in the United States.
She is happy, at least for now. Lowe says: “I’m a real planner. My husband tells me to stop looking too far in the future.”
But she has a general idea of what she might like to do some day: host a morning show. She likes to interview people, and the wider variety of people, the better. She says, laughing: “There are a lot of people who like hearing about the prime minister and chicken pot pie, back to back.”
Whatever happens to Anthony Joshua, life will never be the same for him.
Freshly crowned and adored after destroying Wladimir Klitschko in front of a vast TV audience in 140 countries, not to mention 90,000 paying customers at Wembley Stadium on Saturday night, the humble young champion has perhaps a decade of glory in front of him, with titles, adulation and impossible wealth the prizes as he strives to cash in on two powerful fists and a personality of disarming alacrity.
By 2027 Joshua could be a retired billionaire or, if the fairytale sours, another disillusioned victim of the cruellest sport. As it stands, all looks well for the smiling assassin who still lives at home with his mother in Golders Green. “Can we go back to Wembley?” he wonders. “What more can we do, who can we do it with and for how long can we do it? That’s what I find interesting.”
He once ran a stall at Wembley market, selling “dodgy belts and sunglasses” as his promoter Eddie Hearn put it. “You could buy Wembley market,” Hearn jokes. He could probably buy Wembley Stadium.
But Joshua, at 27, has a wider vision and its sincerity is undeniable. “Charity,” he says, is a priority. “I like to give, for sure, to help people. That’s important. I want to invest because I like business.” And, after surviving the temptations of street life in Watford and avoiding prison for drug possession as a teenager, he would like to set an example for those who find themselves entranced by his fame.
“I know for a fact there is some kid somewhere who has watched what I’m doing and is, like ‘I can do that’. He’ll find himself in a gym and, somehow, he’ll go on and do better than what I’ve done.” But he is no messiah, he says. He knows he cannot prevent young people ending up in prison just because he is the world heavyweight champion and they want his autograph.
“I can’t stop ’em. The issue people have with politicians is, how can you talk about what’s happening in certain areas when you haven’t lived in certain areas? I can definitely relate to a lot of people. I wouldn’t mind doing prison visits, giving people a bit of inspiration, and just helping.”
Joshua wants to instil ambition into those who find his achievements inspiring. “I’d never sit with the kids who’ve maybe had it tough and say: ‘Look, stay where you are.’ You can’t achieve what you don’t see. If you don’t see a Bentley, you’re never going to want to buy one. Invite them to places like this [we are sitting in an ornate and spacious mansion in St John’s Woodnext to the Ghanaian embassy].
“It’s important to show them, rather than rubbing it in their face, like ‘Look what I’ve got. You can look but stay away’. Instead it’s ‘Come and look, have a feel, be inspired and then use that’. Money isn’t everything. [But] I know some very wealthy people. They’ve never given me a pound in my life but they’ve given me a million pounds’ worth of knowledge and inspiration.”
If other, less discriminating money sharks are already circling for a piece of the champion, the man who owns two of the four main slices of the world heavyweight title, the IBF and WBA titles, is unsettlingly calm.
He says he might fight Klitschko again, although the odds are lengthening, Deontay Wilder, the WBC champion, or the recuperating and suspended Tyson Fury, perhaps, who fumes and tweets thunderously off-stage. Hearn says the next defence will probably be in October. It could be at the Millennium Stadium or Madison Square Garden in New York. Nobody knows, even Hearn and Joshua. There is much at stake. Disqualifying the menacing Mike Tyson, the quietly ambling Lennox Lewis and the robotic Klitschko, boxing has not had a properly charismatic and dominant heavyweight champion since Muhammad Ali. Joshua is an obvious, if unwilling, heir presumptive.
He laughs at the ridiculously premature notion that he could be ranked alongside Ali, Joe Frazier, George Foreman, Larry Holmes or any of the fighters from the division’s golden era. “Nah, because there’s too many opinions. Realistically, Klitschko, though.”
And, when Hearn speaks about taking him on the road to China, the Middle East, Africa and, of course, the United States, the way Ali spread his charm and message, Joshua will not be bulldozed. “He’s too excited at that,” he laughs, with a quick glance towards Hearn.
“I’m not in a rush to go anywhere. It’s nice to have some handcuffs on it at the minute.” He concedes the day will come, though. “If it gets to the stage where we want to travel abroad and a promoter links up, or HBO or Showtime can do a deal with Eddie, or a government funds it in Dubai or Africa, we’ll definitely go abroad. But it has to be right for my career. If it’s working in the UK at the minute, let’s not rush to change it.”
He thinks like he boxes: calculatingly. The priceless ability to ride a crisis got him through a sixth-round knockdown that momentarily threatened to wreck the dream on Saturday night and he was there, revived, to finish the job with chilling efficiency five rounds later. Those who might not have been watching before swivelled on their couches or have suddenly developed an interest in this engaging new hero.
And there is no escape for Joshua from the clutches of his gathering celebrity. Dr Dre and Sir Elton John, rock royalty of different types and eras, spoke with him before the fight and he says: “I was baffled. I was shocked. When I spoke to Dr Dre, he was acknowledging what we’re doing. I thought: ‘How am I speaking to Dr Dre?’ I also spoke to Elton John before the fight. He’s a Watford man. It feels surreal. But he’s following boxing, that’s what I’m saying.” Right now, Anthony Joshua is boxing.
The morning commuter peloton can be a sight. While professional cyclists whizz through tours in a blur of neon Lycra and bulging quads, dedicated amateurs often resort to makeshift gear such as flapping Sports Direct jogging bottoms and sweaty cagoules for the schlep to work.
Simon Mottram, the chief executive of the cyclewear brand Rapha, is the cycling world’s equivalent of the fashion police, and a rush hour ride across London last week only reinforced his belief in the need for his upmarket gear. “The amount of people on bikes was amazing because it was a sunny morning but actually nine out of 10 looked absolutely appalling,” he says. “Not only did they look terrible but the stuff they were wearing …” He tails off muttering about sweaty high-vis jackets and the probable chafe caused by baggy shorts.
Over the past decade Rapha’s stock has risen sharply among fashion-aware cycling aficionados as gruelling long-distance road races and triathlons replace the golf course in the affections of “mamils” – a phrase coined by analysts at the research company Mintel as shorthand for “middle-aged man in Lycra”. Last year Rapha sales jumped almost 30% to £63m as it tapped latent demand for fashionable cycling gear and opened stores – or “clubhouses” as it calls them – as far afield as Seoul and Chicago.
The London-based business founded in 2004 by Mottram, a former branding consultant, got this far in the race under its own steam but recently hired an investment bank to look at options for its future, which could include a sale. Despite its flash gear – Mottram’s commuting outfit of reflective jacket, tights and overshoes would give little change from £500 – it has had less than £6m of external investment from shareholders over the past 13 years.
“We’ve had to trade our way to success,” says Mottram. “We’ve got enough capital to keep growing the way we are growing but you are always thinking, could you go faster?”
Founded in the days before the crowdfunding campaigns that supported companies such as Brewdog, it took more than 200 meetings for the entrepreneur to secure startup cash for Rapha, with some of the pot drawn from friends and family who remain shareholders. It resulted in an unusual set-up with Mottram owning just 12.5% and the remainder shared among a group that includes the private equity firm Active, which has 20%.
“Fundraising was very difficult at the beginning because there was no obvious market and I had no track record of creating clothing or building an e-commerce business,” says Mottram. “I’ve always been a minority shareholder so have had to make it work.”
Last year Rapha was said to be on the shopping list of Catterton, the private equity arm of the luxury goods group LVMH, which has since bought the Italian bike brand Pinarello.
Who would be the right backer for Rapha? “We’re not sure really,” Mottram says. “I’m really happy with the ownership we have. They have been massively supportive. The thing outsiders don’t realise is how pure what we do is. I’ve been allowed to create the perfect model of what I think a consumer brand should be.”
Rapha might not be a household name but in the tribal cycling community it is a “Marmite” brand at the centre of fierce forum debates where detractors see it as the fiefdom of wealthy metrosexuals or the “Raphia”. Named after a defunct French cycling team from the late 1950s, it has unashamedly sought to market a lifestyle – selling everything from luxurious merino jumpers to £20 embrocation creams and bespoke holidays in the Alps where you can “reconnect” with your bike on gruelling cols. It even has its own riding club with 9,000 members paying £135 a year for perks including free coffee in its clubhouses.
“We are totally in love with the sport,” says Mottram. “We love the product and think the product should be as good as the sport. I care about how I look and perhaps that makes me a shallow person but why on a bike should you not?”
Mottram acknowledges the brand is out of reach of some pockets and last year it launched a range of more affordable gear that included jerseys for under £100. “We have carved out a market at the top,” he says. “The future is to keep that quality but to reach more people. Aldi does a cycling jersey for £15 to £20 but we won’t do that because that isn’t really a cycling jersey – it’s a piece of polyester. But we do need to make our pricing more accessible.”
Like an overweight mamil, Rapha’s head office in a converted warehouse in north London is bursting at the seams, and an injection of new funds would presumably accelerate the search for larger premises. Inside, the white-painted brick walls are adorned with cycling memorabilia, while the reception cum coffee bar buzzes like an Apple store. Whereas most companies would put bike racks outside, Rapha’s ground floor is dominated by several rows with new employees indoctrinated into its bike-mad culture.
“Rapha is by its nature a premium lifestyle brand with its clubhouses and holidays,” says one industry executive with knowledge of the sector. “If I was Simon I’d be looking for the support of a luxury brand or the private office of a wealthy family, who will let him carry on doing what he’s doing, rather than a private equity firm. There is a lot more mileage in the brand but there is a need to professionalise some aspects of the way it is run.”
Official statistics point to cycle use increasing in the UK with 3.5bn miles cycled in 2016 – 23% above the figure for 10 years before – but the experience of mainstream chains such as Halfords points to a nation of fair weather cyclists with peaks and troughs as the euphoria created by Team GB is dampened by summer rides in lashing rain.
The global market for cycling paraphernalia is estimated to be worth $47bn – five times that of golf – according to the consultants OC&C, with Rapha seeing scope to move beyond this year’s target of 20 clubhouses to 100 around the world. “The dream for Rapha is the same as for cycling,” says Mottram. “I don’t want it to be a niche sport which has a little boom then goes back into its shell. I want it to be mainstream and for Rapha to be at the centre of making that happen.”
Elephantine-memoried readers will know that we have featured rumours concerning Sporting Lisbon’s William Carvalho before. In February 2014 we said he might go to Manchester United, and in August to Chelsea for £35m. In November 2015 he was on his way to Arsenal, in May 2016 to newly-crowned league champions Leicester City or United again, and that October Arsenal were linked once more, while this January he was being monitored by Liverpool. And all the while he has remained in Lisbon, waiting for the right suitor to come along. Well now he’s being linked with West Bromwich Albion so, William, how about it? According to the Sun Tony Pulis himself watched him play against Benfica a couple of weeks back, and is mulling over a possible £30m bid – that’s thirty million pounds, comfortably more than double the Baggies’ current transfer record, which stands at a Nacer Chadli-shaped £13m – to snaffle him away from Arsenal and Liverpool, who continue to idly monitor him.
The Sun have details of the £50m-rated offer that it says is going to swing the fight for Virgil van Dijk in Chelsea’s favour, and which will allow Southampton to both bank a barrowful of cash and land a replacement centre-back, all in one canny manoeuvre. The Blues are willing to hand over the 21-year-old Danish defender Andreas Christensen, currently completing his second season on loan at Borussia Mönchengladbach, as part of the deal, while Van Dijk has decided to snub Arsenal’s £150,000-a-week contract offer in favour of signing for a side that occasionally wins trophies.
But perhaps Van Dijk could be persuaded to remain in Southampton if the club’s current manager, Claude Puel, does not: the Star this morning reports that “a host of Saints stars including England duo Ryan Bertrand and Nathan Redmond have fallen out with their French boss”, leading to “genuine fears that Van Dijk will leave if Puel doesn’t”.
Manchester United bean-counters have worked out the full cost of a potential move for Antoine Griezmann, reports the Mail, and over five years it would be at least £155m – £76m or so in transfer fees, and £77m or so in wages at an all-time Premier League-high of £300,000 a week. Though if they can convince someone to take £290,000-a-week Wayne Rooney off their hands this summer they would almost be quits. Meanwhile Sky Sports is reporting that United have made Kasper Schmeichel their official No1 toppermost choice to replace David de Gea if the Spaniard is snaffled by Real Madrid come summer, which given that Real Madrid will apparently make the very same Kasper Schmeichel their official No1 toppermost choice if they don’t snaffle David de Gea from Manchester United come summer suggests that, in short and to summarise, Schmeichel should probably start packing.
Tottenham could end their interest in Wilfred Zaha because of his decision to represent the Ivory Coast, which will mean he misses a chunk of alternate top-flight seasons while his national team competes in the pesky African Cup of Nations.
The club could have £30m lying around, though, with the Independent revealing that Kyle Walker “has decided that his future lies away from Tottenham Hotspur” and is “attracted by the possibility of a big move and frustrated by recent events” (namely Kieran Trippier taking his spot in the team for various big recent matches), with Barcelona joining both Manchester clubs in the race for the speedy England full-back who “would cost at the very least £35m, if not closer to £50m”. The race for his signature might be nearly over already, though, with the Mail reporting that “Manchester City are increasingly confident” that they will sign him.
The former Manchester City trainee Ahmad Benali could return to England on a free transfer this summer, when his contract at Pescara comes to an end, with Southampton and West Ham both interested in giving Premier League fans their very first glimpse of a Libyan international. The 25-year-old has offers from Atalanta, Bologna and Genoa, says the Sun, but the Manchester-born maestro would prefer to return to these shores.
Semi Radradra’s manager says his star client would not have signed a deal to leave the NRL and play rugby union in France if domestic violence charges had not been levelled against him.
The charges against Radradra were dropped at the prosecution’s request on Tuesday at Parramatta Local Court, where the Eels winger’s manager George Christodoulou said later his client never wanted to quit the NRL.
“Semi loves rugby league and loves the Eels. But in the end he had to take care of business,” Christodoulou said. Radradra would have faced a lengthy NRL ban if he had been found guilty.
The manager said the long-running court proceedings had taken a big toll on Radradra who was “relieved and grateful” at being cleared. He indicated Radradra would still honour his deal to join French rugby club Toulon when he completed the current NRL season with Parramatta.
“That’s where his future lies but for the next few months he will be with Parramatta Eels and hopefully win a premiership on his way out,” he said.
Radradra’s league career was further impacted by the charges because he was not considered for selection on Australia’s successful Four Nations campaign late last year or for Friday’s Anzac Test against New Zealand, having debuted with the Kangaroos in the same match in 2016.
“He’d love nothing more than to wear the Kangaroos jersey again,” said Christodolou. “It’s a sad outcome of these whole proceedings that it cost him his Kangaroos jersey – the jersey that he cherished most out of any jersey that he has ever worn.
“I understand and respect where the NRL was coming from with their decision. Although it was difficult we understand where they were coming from at the time.”
Radradra’s former partner Perina Ting had accused him of punching her in the face in November 2014 and pushing her into a wall in 2015. The charges were withdrawn after Ting finished giving evidence, including cross-examination.
Ting admitted she tried to “heat up the media” before making assault allegations against the Parramatta winger in June last year.
Parramatta Local Court on Tuesday heard Ting, who has a daughter with Radradra, was only receiving $250 a week from her estranged partner rather than the agreed $300.
She sent a message to the Parramatta club saying she would have to “do something” if she didn’t get what she was owed and mentioned assault allegations in a message to Radradra later that day, the court heard.
Three days later, she told a friend she wished she had someone to assist her to “heat up the media”.
“Semi is now looking forward to getting back on the field with his team-mates and being a father to his young daughter,” said Christodolou. “We’d like to thank everyone for their support over this tough time. It’s been very difficult.
“The allegations of domestic violence levelled against any man – it’s one of the most heinous crimes that anyone can be accused of. Semi is a very humble, soft loving man. This has really taken its toll on him as a human being.”
Those pondering the bleakness of Hawthorn’s current plight would do well to remember their other post-golden-era tumble, when the glory-filled Jeans era of the 1980s gave way to the lost years and near-merger of the mid-1990s. Pride comes not only before a fall, but also the recruitment of Simon Crawshay.
And Brendan Krummel. Remember him? Does he have a son? Maybe Hawthorn can draft him with one of the late draft picks they’ll now have to content themselves with since trading away all their first and second round ones. Poor Brendan Krummel. Not only did he lob at the Hawks as they moved away from success and entered a period of crushing lows and intense soul-searching, he got poleaxed by Byron Pickett (see below).
Anyway, at the risk of merely listing a heap of entrants from the “Mediocre AFL footballers of the 1990s” Facebook page (Mark Bunn, Simon Minton-Connell, and Haydon Kilmartin are mainstays over there), looking back through Hawthorn’s 1990s “dark years” is actually informative, and gives you even less reason to feel sorry for Hawks fans. Was it really that bad? They made the finals in ‘92, ‘93 and ‘94, and still struggled for members. Within a few years of their near-extinction they were playing in the 2001 finals. If Krummel and Crawshay are as bad as it gets, you’re not doing too bad.
Back in the 1950s and 60s, before equalisation was a word applied to, well, anything, the only way to bottom out a dynastic football team was a plain old curse, as per that suffered by Melbourne following the departures of their golden era gods – coach Norm Smith and star captain Ron Barassi.
We all know this tale of woe but the numbers remain eye-popping: having scooped six premierships in 10 seasons between 1955 and 1964 (five of them in a six-year period of almost total dominance), the Dees failed to make the finals again until 1987. Imagine the quiet arrogance of Melbourne supporters at the start of the 1965 season, when the club won their first eight games on the bounce. Take another flag, shall we? Little did they know the Dees would win only two of their next 10 games, miss the finals, and not return for 22 years. Goodbye Barass, hello Barry Norsworthy.
Of all the great football teams to fall into a death spiral at the end of their swaggering era of domination, only Melbourne’s fall from grace could prompt an entire Wikipedia section labelled: “1965-1986: Decades of disappointment”. They’ve had their moments since: John Northey’s nearly-there finals runs of 1987/88; the Lyon/Viney/Jakovich thrill-seekers of 1990/1991; the Neitz/Yze/Farmer/Woewidin grand finalists of 2000. But 53 years is certainly a decent commitment to falling short.
The mere mention of Adelaide football club at the turn of the century is likely to prompt fearful thoughts: a marauding Darren Jarman tearing Jamie Shanahan limb from limb; Andrew McLeod and Mark Riciutto slicing through the midfield and onto the premiership dais; Malcolm Blight being brilliant instead of bonkers; Nigel Smart punching another spoil into row Z.
What we tend to forget is the bit immediately following the Crows’ 1997-98 premiership triumphs, when it all went pear-shaped very quickly – the part for which you have to consult AFL Tables. Then you start to chuckle, and remember them plummeting their way down the ladder and into the Ayres era.
In fairness, Adelaide basically came from nowhere to win both of those flags, so some kind of drop-off was understandable, but there was a big difference between looking down the spine of the ground and seeing Smart, Rod Jameson Shaun Rehn, Matthew Robran and Darren Jarman, and spying a team sheet containing names like Bryan Beinke, Ian Downsborough, David Gallagher, Darryl Wintle and Lucas Herbert.
By the time the 1999 season had finished off Blight’s Adelaide coaching career, the Crows had gone from top of the pile to 13th and the barely any of their losses were unlucky; eight of them came with margins of six goals or greater, following a remarkable scoring drop-off of 27%. They’d rise again, of course, but not under Blight or his successor.
We’re talking in relative terms here, but by 1974 St Kilda had featured in 10 finals series in the previous 14 years, which qualified the period as the club’s halcyon days. No, they were not technically a great side at any stage in that time, but they’d been consistently very good for a prolonged period for the first moment in their history. Their 1966 premiership was a sporting miracle, and they probably should have pinched a few more. The club’s new home at Moorabbin was pumping. The good times were rolling. All was in place for sustained success for Melbourne football’s bayside superpower.
Hmm, maybe not. If there is an image that defines the wilderness period between the pointy end of 1973, when the Saints held firm in the old top five, and 1991, when they next played finals football, it was seen in bold letters at the base of the old Moorabbin scoreboard in so many team photographs of the 1980s: “SAINTS DISCO EVERY FRIDAY NIGHT”.
By then Allan Jeans had moved on to Hawthorn to create a truly great football side, winning everything in sight. Ian Stewart left for Richmond, then South, then Carlton – anywhere but St Kilda. So in came flare-panted Mike Patterson, clapped-out Jezza, tyrannical Tony Jewell, Wacko Jacko, grim Graeme Gellie, and an era of recruitment to make Richmond’s 2004 draft intake look prudent. And to think St Kilda can’t wait to get back to Moorabbin, their “spiritual home”...
Though their post-premiership slump was arguably the most dramatic of any team on this list, Brisbane are a bit of an outlier here. Other sides recruited particularly badly, made terrible trades, went broke, or fell victim of curses. Brisbane’s nosedive after the three-peat of 2001-2003 came about in part because the game actually passed them and their coach by; they were the last great hard-nosed, man-on-man, play-your-position, old school football team we saw. And boy, weren’t they magnificent?
Which brings us to...
If Leigh Matthews’s Brisbane were the last great football side who also imposed themselves physically to a level unmatched by their opposition (sorry Hawks supporters, one Luke Hodge does not maketh a gang), Essendon’s 1999-2001 sides shouldn’t be forgotten for the braun that complemented their brains. Imagine breaking from the team huddle and running across to match up on any of Dean Wallis, Dustin Fletcher, Damien Hardwick, Mark Johnson, Dean Solomon, Paul Barnard, Sean Wellman, Jason Johnson or Gary Moorcroft in their pomp. You’d rather be head-locked by Plugger; at least he couldn’t catch you again once you’d broken free.
It barely warrants repeating that Essendon missed premiership chances either side of their near-perfect campaign of 2000, but what followed was a fascinating tale in the cult of personality. The Bombers didn’t drop off the face of the earth entirely in the 2002-2004 period, finishing fifth, eighth and eighth, respectively, but when the plummet arrived it came with shockwaves still being felt now; the eternal search for another Messianic figure.
You forget how long Kevin Sheedy’s denouement dragged on. His side had as many wins (21) in the 2000 regular season as they would in his entire last three seasons in charge. For opposition fans, the demise of Sheedy’s Bombers was a time for jacket-waving, marshmallow-throwing, and much ner-ner-ner-ner-ner’ing. But by the time he was pensioned off, the coach’s CV bulged with four premierships from 634 games in charge – spread across a three-decade reign as the club’s larger-than-life figurehead and football spirit animal. You’d take that.
Some high-profile Australian athletes, including Olympic and world champions, have opened up on their post-sport difficulties in a revealing ABC documentary.
After the Game, an ABC TV’s Four Corners investigation that aired on Monday night, featured interviews with a range of prominent athletes, including Lauren Jackson and Stephanie Rice.
Jackson, a 2006 world champion with the Opals, said she misused medication in a bid to continue her glittering career.
“There are high stakes. You’re getting paid a lot of money to perform, and when you’re a franchise player or someone that is expected to perform day in, day out, you do what you have to do to get by,” she said.
“For me, that was pain killers and sleeping pills. After games I’d be in so much pain that you just want to go to sleep. Oh my god. It was just a nightmare. So, having to get off everything was really, really, really hard.”
Jackson said she fell in a heap after received a diagnosis that her knee had “turned to mush”, ending her career.
“One of my good friends from America, one of my team-mates, said to me, ‘you know, athletes die two times’. And it’s true. Once your career is over, you’ve got to recreate yourself in a way that other people just don’t have to,” she said.
“The doctor sort of said to me, like, ‘You’ve got no chance, your knees are not going to do it’. And I just broke down. I was in tears. To say goodbye to my love, what was my life, my identity, which was so wrapped up in basketball ... it just hurts, it hurts a lot.”
Rice, who won three gold medals at the 2008 Beijing Olympics, said she confronted personal demons after retiring. “Everything that I knew about myself and prided myself on, my confidence, came from swimming,” she said.
“So take away the vehicle that gave me all of those feelings and all of that pride and confidence, it was like ‘who is Stephanie Rice?’ because I only knew Stephanie Rice the swimmer.
“One night I was the golden girl, triple Olympic gold medallist ... and then wake up the next morning to be the worst person in the entire world. And it just happened like that.”
The documentary showed ways that several sports are grappling with mental health challenges. 
Australian readers seeking support and information about depression can contact Lifeline on 13 11 14
What a difference a day makes. Mark Selby, completely unrecognisable from the wan, bottomed-out facsimile of himself who trailed 10-4 at one stage during this final, recovered to win his third world championship in four years. Along with Steve Davis, Stephen Hendry and Ronnie O’Sullivan, he is now one of a select band of four players to retain the title during its fabled 40-year residency at the Crucible Theatre.
Demonstrating the kind of steel for which the host city is renowned, the 33-year-old put a hideous first day behind him but was forced to contend with late controversy and the sheer cussedness of John Higgins en route to a tense 18-15 victory. Selby has been snooker’s No1 player for 116 consecutive weeks now and his record £375,000 winner’s cheque means his position at the top of the world rankings is more or less cemented for another year. “Yesterday I’d hit the wall and I had nothing left,” he said. “I was 10-4 down and thinking there was no way I was going to come back from that. I said I’d just try to make it respectable. I was thinking I could lose with a session to spare. I tried to get my act together, just tried to find something from within. To get out at 10-7 down it felt like I was in front, to be honest.”
At various stages of this final both players looked humiliation in the face and each deserves credit for staring it down to play his part in delivering a classic. Way behind and looking exhausted towards the end of the first day, Selby drew on his fabled mental reserves to haul himself back into contention with a late-night effort that laid the foundations for his third title. A day later it was Higgins who found himself in the wringer: before potting his first red of Monday’s final session he had lost nine frames out of the previous 10, failed to score in just under an hour of play and been consigned to his chair while Selby scored 256 points without reply as he won four in a row.
Despite launching a late but ultimately futile mini-revival, Higgins will ultimately wonder how he lost a final in which his final-day highlights were restricted to breaks of 88 and 111, not to mention three consecutive long-range fouls that were as preposterously implausible as they were identical. They brought the house down at a point in the third session when the match was scrappy and mired in tedium rather than intensity.
“Mark is granite, just granite,” said Higgins, a four-times champion. “In the second session I had my chances, I missed a pink into the middle and I could have gone 9-3 ahead. That was a big, big frame. Mark cleared up under extreme pressure. He is a fantastic champion. It has been an unbelievable tournament, I gave everything. I came up short to a great champion. I’m proud of myself but he was too good on the day.”
Most had expected this final to be attritional and the refusal of both players to surrender in the face of the most intense pressure made proceedings ridiculously tense. With the match on a knife edge, an unexpected cameo from the referee, Jan Verhaas, rendered them almost unbearable. Leading 16-14 in frames and 47 points to the good in the 31st, Selby attempted a deft roll-up snooker behind the black and looked unconvinced when the Dutch official called a foul on the grounds that “I saw no contact, Mark.”
Having sportingly called for a TV replay the rules do not allow, Higgins went on to take the frame but not before Verhaas had teetered on the brink of overruling himself. Normally tasked with helping the official in the white gloves replace disturbed balls when players are put back in after a foul, his score-marker and assistant, Brendan Moore, was unable to say with certainty that cue-ball and black had caressed. Verhaas chose to stick with his original decision, one that ultimately cost Selby the frame.
“I could have swore the black moved a little bit but then Jan said it didn’t,” said Selby. “I looked up at John Parrott and Steve Davis [in the commentary box] and their first impression was ‘yes, you hit it’ and then they signalled they weren’t sure. Obviously, the referee’s decision is final and I think Jan’s probably the best we have in the game, so I respect his decision. It was tough to take but it still left me 16-15 in front. I’d have taken that yesterday at 10-4 down and I just needed to regroup.”
Regroup he did and in fine style: a break of 131 in the next frame leaving him just one from victory. He secured it at the first time of asking, clenching both fists and looking to his family and friends in the gallery following the pot that put the frame beyond Higgins and the winner into the pantheon of snooker greats.
Jürgen Klopp has warned his players not to assume Champions League football is theirs after Emre Can’s startling scissor kick beat Watford and ensured a top-four finish is within Liverpool’s reach with three games to play.
Can scored the “best goal” of his career in first-half stoppage time, connecting sweetly with Lucas Leiva’s diagonal pass, to move the visitors four points clear of fifth-placed Manchester United. Victories over Southampton, West Ham and Middlesbrough will ensure Klopp’s team return to Europe’s elite club competition but the German, while thrilled at his side’s response to their recent home defeat by Crystal Palace, remains cautious.
“We need to stay focused, to stay concentrated,” he said. “We have pressure until the end of the season but at least it’s a positive pressure. That is better. It means we are fighting for something.
“So we’ll do everything to get the points we need but it won’t be easy. If people think we already have the three points against Southampton, for example, then they’ve not watched them play this season. They’re another really strong side.
“But this was a big win and won by a great goal. Emre is a good player, a good player. He’d had a calf problem [earlier this season] but we simply couldn’t leave him out. We’d spoken a lot about this, as a group, and people were wondering what was wrong with him. But we needed him in those moments. Sometimes he wasn’t as good as he could have been, but now those problems are sorted, he’s physically strong again and we can see he can score goals like this...”
Can’s acrobatics ensured Liverpool coped with the loss of Philippe Coutinho to a dead leg, with Adam Lallana featuring for 74 minutes on his return from a thigh problem. The Liverpool manager did have to endure watching Sebastian Prodl batter a shot against the crossbar in the fifth minute of stoppage time as Watford threatened to draw level.
“I said to the players after the game, if they want to kill me, that’s a good way to try it,” added Klopp. “I thought I felt something in this area [his chest]. Five hundred million grey hairs ... We’d already defended this situation so often. They tried everything over 97 minutes but one mistake could have led to the goal. That’s how football at this level is. We didn’t play perfectly tonight but conceding in the last second would not have been deserved.”
Liverpool will resist selling Can this summer despite the player having failed to agree terms over a new deal as he enters the final 12 months of his contract.
“Everything is in our hands,” said the Germany international. “If we win the three last three games we are in the Champions League. We are confident we can achieve that. If we perform how we can perform, we can do it. But, having seen the results over the weekend [when both Manchester City and United dropped points], this was a big game for us. And that is the best goal I’ve ever scored.”
Most supporters fear their team is always on the brink of a mishap but not every team’s fans feel nervous about visiting a side they have destroyed 6-1 earlier in the season. But the trepidation among many Liverpool fans before their visit to Watford was understandable, even after a weekend in which their rivals for a top-four finish had fallen over themselves to drop points.
The sense of anguish was palpable right up to the final whistle, with even Jürgen Klopp admitting his heart missed a beat when Watford’s Sebastian Prödl smashed a shot against the crossbar in the last moments. “I said to the players after the game if they want to kill me, that’s a good way to try it!” he quipped.
One would think Liverpool’s manager would be used to scares by now. Some say he is partly to blame for them. Sixteen months and 96 matches into the German’s reign, his side remain an oddity, sometimes brilliant, always brittle, apt to beat the best and lose to the lowly. One can see what Klopp is trying to do and it is marvellous when it works; but when it does not work, one wonders whether he can see the problem. And whether he has the clarity of mind to fix it.
Evidence from the trip to Vicarage Road could be used to build a case either for those who believe Klopp is the man to lead Liverpool back to glory or those who believe he is turning the Anfield club into the new Arsenal, a hyperactive but similarly flawed version of Arsène Wenger’s chronic disappointments.
On the one hand Liverpool have done well to be third in the table at this stage of the season, given their shortcomings and relatively shallow squad. On the other hand, it must be exasperating for fans that Klopp’s side are not already safe in the top four, or even challenging for the title, given that they have proved they can overwhelm even Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur. As it was, strengthening their chances of reaching next season’s Champions League was their one remaining ambition when they arrived here. They seized their chance. But they almost let it slip, too. The only progress that really matters now is the number of points gained and Liverpool got the three for which they came. Beyond that it was difficult to know how satisfied they should be.
Liverpool have frittered away points this season against all seven of the teams below Watford in the table. Last week they lost at home to Crystal Palace, after which the sound of Sam Allardyce blowing his own trumpet was excruciating for Liverpool fans because they knew the former England manager struck the right note. Liverpool, as Allardyce had anticipated, defended set pieces with all the poise of circus attendees who had accidentally volunteered to face the knife thrower. And Klopp’s next public move was not reassuring. It was perverse.
Awarding Dejan Lovren a new four-year contract days after the centre-back was bullied by a striker (Christian Benteke) whom Klopp had deemed unsuitable for Liverpool (while Mamadou Sakho sat in the stands as an exiled Liverpool player) seemed the sort of idea that an internet troll might have suggested. The fact that it came from the club raised uncomfortable questions about Liverpool’s summer investment plans and Klopp’s judgment, similar to the question that was first raised when Simon Mignolet was handed a new contract two months after Klopp’s arrival.
A solid performance from Lovren, left, and the rest of Liverpool’s defence would be the best way to start answering those questions. The test was of their concentration as much as their skill and strength. Watford’s ploy was to defend deep and count on an opportunity to score from a rare counterattack and/or a Liverpool mistake. That has worked for many lesser sides against Liverpool, who have at times struggled to create chances against massed defences.
With Watford posing no threat in the first half, Lovren, usually the last man in Liverpool’s defence, had little to do but collect passes and keep the ball circulating. He mostly did that fine but a couple of times Klopp had to remind him loudly to push out after making a pass so as to preserve the offside trap. A coach needs to keep on top of Lovren.
Liverpool then went in front thanks to Emre Can’s well-executed scissor-kick. Briefly they seemed to control proceedings with encouraging authority. But then came some trademark snoozing from Mignolet, who was almost caught napping by a long-range shot from Daryl Janmaat. Then, in the dying seconds, and despite the presence of three Liverpool centre-backs after Klopp had introduced Ragnar Klavan, Prödl somehow found himself free in the box with a clear sight of goal. His miss was a let-off for Liverpool.
If Klopp’s team finish in the top four, their season will be a success and they will have got away with their defects. And Champions League participation will make it easier to attract players who can add stability. Klopp needs to pick the right ones.
Laura Muir has set her sights on breaking Zola Budd’s 32-year-old British mile record in a further attempt to underline her threat to her rivals at the world championships in London in August.
Since finishing a disappointing seventh over 1500m at the Rio Olympic Games Muir has set five British and two European records at distances ranging from 1,000m to 5,000m. She believes Budd’s time of 4min 17.57sec will be the next one to fall when she tackles the race at the Anniversary Games at the Queen Elizabeth Stadium in July.
“Zola’s definitely one of the icons of British distance running and I know she’s got a very quick time,” Muir said. “If I was to break it, it would be great.”
Unsurprisingly she has no plans to emulate Budd by going barefoot. “I’m not sure I’m quite up for that one,” she said, laughing. “My lucky spikes are doing well so far, so I think I’ll keep them on.”
Muir confirmed her intention to double up in the 1500m and 5,000m at the world championships, although her priority will be the shorter distance. Her main challengers over 1500m are again likely to be the Kenyan Faith Chepngetich Kipyegon and the Ethiopian Genzebe Dibaba, who won gold and silver in Rio, but Muir believes her rivals will look at her differently now she has run so many fast times and won double European Indoor gold in Belgrade over 1500m and 3,000m in March.
“Before, I think they might not have taken me as seriously,” she said. “But certainly now I’ve run very quick times, I think we respect each other and they certainly recognise I’m a threat.
“It gives you a huge confidence boost standing on the line. Before I’d be thinking: ‘She can run this, she can run that, she’s won that.’ Now I’m standing there thinking: ‘I’ve run 3:55 and got two gold medals.’ It’s great having that confidence on the start and knowing this is where I belong.”
Muir is likely to be one of the biggest home draws of the championships after her stunning performances in Belgrade but she feels she can deal with the pressure. “If you’d asked me that a couple of years ago, I probably would have been quite worried about it,” she said. “There was pressure and I didn’t deal with it very well. I got very nervous. Now I see pressure more as support.”
That support was evident when she arrived home in Scotland after her successes in Belgrade. “It was brilliant,” she said. “There were media waiting for me in Glasgow Airport and people knew who I was on the bus and the train. It was lovely.”
Since her double gold at the European Indoors she has been on an altitude training camp in Font Romeu in the Pyrenees while also juggling work placements for her veterinary course at Glasgow University. With her first outdoor race of the season – at the Prefontaine Classic in Eugene in three weeks – approaching she is now focusing on her training in Flagstaff, Arizona.
There will not be any easing up when she celebrates her 24th birthday next week. “It’s on a Tuesday so that means double circuits,” she said. “That won’t be too enjoyable. A little cake will be nice but I don’t think there’ll be alcohol with Eugene on the horizon.”
The beleaguered Team Sky have suffered another body blow in their attempts to rebuild their brand after they suspended Gianni Moscon for six weeks for racially abusing FDJ’s Kévin Reza.
The incident occurred after Friday’s stage three of the Tour de Romandie, which was won by Sky’s Elia Viviani, and has led to the Italian being handed a formal written warning.
Despite the allegations Sky chose not to withdraw the 23-year-old from the race, which concluded on Sunday, after discussions with FDJ.
A statement from Team Sky read: “Following a disciplinary meeting with Team Sky concerning an incident at the Tour of Romandie, Gianni Moscon has been given a formal written warning and suspended from racing for six weeks. He will also attend a diversity awareness course.
“Gianni recognises that his behaviour was wrong and how seriously Team Sky take this kind of incident. He apologised to Kévin Reza after the stage and again to him and his team the following morning, and this apology was accepted. Gianni knows that there is no excuse for his behaviour and that any repeat will result in termination of his contract.”
The incident comes at a time when UK Anti-Doping has been investigating allegations of wrongdoing affecting Team Sky and British Cycling. Sky have been under scrutiny since October when it was revealed that Ukad was looking into a claim that the former rider Sir Bradley Wiggins was injected with triamcinolone, a powerful corticosteroid, at the end of the Critérium in 2011.
The Fancy Bears computer hackers revealed that Wiggins was given permission for jabs of the otherwise-banned drug before his three biggest races in 2011, 2012 and 2013, including his breakthrough Tour de France win in 2012. The retired rider, who has denied any wrongdoing, did not have permission to use it at the Critérium, though.
Central to the investigation has been the contents of a package, hand‑delivered by a British Cycling coach and sent from the National Cycling Centre in Manchester, to the team at the end of that race.
Dr Richard Freeman, the former Team Sky medic, has said he cannot find any records to prove the package contained the legal decongestant Fluimucil because he failed to follow team policy by sharing those records with colleagues. He lost his laptop on holiday three years later.
Ukad is yet to publish the findings of its investigation while the results of a concurrent probe by the culture, media and sport select committee will now not appear until after the general election.
In March Team Sky published an open letter from the team principal, Sir Dave Brailsford, to Damian Collins MP, chair of the select committee, in which the team outlined 14 steps taken to improve their anti-doping and medical policies since 2011, including a focus on record-sharing.

Anthony Joshua, who has joined Andy Murray as one of Britain’s most globally recognisable sporting celebrities, admits his next big fight is “keeping it real” as the power-brokers, hangers-on and grassroots fans jostle for a piece of the most bankable asset in boxing.
“I can’t go to certain places,” the quietly spoken world heavyweight champion said in the incongruous surroundings of a rented St John’s Wood mansion he used as London a base while preparing for his epic contest against Wladimir Klitschko at Wembley Arena, where victory in front of 90,000 fans on Saturday night established him as the world’s unchallenged boxing star.
“Everyone I smile at isn’t going to smile back at me,” said Joshua said in a rare quiet interlude before he retreats to the embrace of his close-knit family. “I’ve got to stay away from any problems, any trouble. You are who you are. A leopard don’t change its spots. I am what I am. I’m keeping it real.”
Looking ahead to what he hopes will be a decade at the summit of the division to emulate Klitschko’s 11-year reign, he said: “It’s good to achieve it now but what would be better for me is to maintain it. That’s what I said to Klitschko: for me this was not a defining fight. It’s just part of my journey.”
Joshua, who says he is a “not bad” tennis player, is already an unbackable 11-1 on favourite to displace Murray as the BBC’s sports personality of the year, paid tribute to the Scot’s longevity and hard work.
“He is a really good guy, dedicated. We talked boxing [at the Rio Olympics]. I think he would have enjoyed that fight, where ever he is in the world. He’s done it for a long time so he definitely does deserve the credit he receives. I think that speaks volumes. It’s not just, like, arriving. And it’s not just so much what you do inside, it’s how you conduct [yourself] outside, because that determines whether you go back on the same level or not.”
Joshua’s promoter, Eddie Hearn, has been hitting the phones since Saturday night to make sense of a complicated landscape. The odds are Joshua will not fight again until October, possibly in Madison Square Garden against a lesser challenger, or at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff against the WBC champion, Deontay Wilder – or even the still-suspended former champion, Tyson Fury, who is Joshua’s preferred option and who claimed on Monday: “I can beat AJ with one arm tied behind my back. I don’t even need a warm-up.”
It could be a rematch against Klitschko – although Joshua thinks the Ukrainian’s elder brother, Vitali, and his partner, the American actress Hayden Panettiere, will counsel against his continuing in the sport at 41 after taking a heavy beating in the 11th and final round.
Hearn, clarified the remaining options (none of which will be nailed down for at least a month): “[Joseph] Parker [who defends his WBO title against the obscure Razvan Cojanu in New Zealand on 6 May] is an interesting pawn in this because he’s looking for that big fight. Parker might fight Wilder and he may fight [David Haye’s recent conqueror, Tony] Bellew. Bellew’s not a future opponent for Josh.”
The Golden State Warriors, it would appear, are not looking forward to a weekend away in Salt Lake City.
Last year’s NBA finalists take on the Utah Jazz in the upcoming Western Conference semi-finals, and will be on the road from Friday to Monday. Some members of the team told ESPN they would rather have played the Los Angeles Clippers and spent some time in southern California.
“The problem with Utah is that you’re just sitting there and your mind is, like, dead, because in LA you still got energy for the game,” Andre Iguodala said. “Because you’re in LA, you’re like, ‘Man, this is just the vibe in LA’ but in Utah, it can kind of lull you to sleep. And then you’ve slept too long or I’m bored out of my mind and now you got to try to pump yourself up for the game. You know you’re in the playoffs and you’re supposed to be pumped anyway, but the vibe is just like, ‘Man, let’s just get out of here.’”
Kevin Durant, clearly not a fan of the Hogle Zoo, also said he would have preferred a trip to LA. “I’m sure it’s probably clubs, but I’ve never been to one in Utah,” he said. “It’s a few restaurants close to the hotel, but you’re not scattered out. LA is just bigger. That’s the only difference. But preparation-wise, my approach is the same as in any other city.”
Forward Matt Barnes has done his research on the dining options. “You sit in your room,” he said on Sunday. “I think there’s an Olive Garden out there and then a Benihana. So you’ll definitely be [focused on the playoffs] all the way. LA, you have a few more dinner options. You’ve got the beach right there and the sun, and I got family. I think as players, we’re pulling to go to LA.”
Iguodala did add that he liked the restaurants and the movie theaters in Salt Lake City, and that a trip with fewer distractions would be good for team bonding. “We kind of embrace it like: ‘Yo, we got to do something together because it ain’t nothing else to do,’” Iguodala said. “So it actually works for us. So that’s kind of how that works. Similar to [Oklahoma City], it’s the same way. Matter of fact, I don’t think I’ve ever been to a movie in OKC.”
He added: “The challenges in LA are obvious. Before you know it, it’s 2 or 3 o’clock in the morning and you didn’t even realize it was that late because there’s so much to do. You can do whatever. It doesn’t even have to be anything that exerts energy as far as body movement, but mentally you can exert energy because you’re interacting with different people. You’re out, and then that could lead to trouble.”
Draymond Green, not known for being the Warriors’ voice of reason, didn’t seem too troubled about the lack of distractions in Utah, however. “It’s the playoffs,” he said. “Nobody worried about nightlife during the playoffs.”
Harry Kane has called on Tottenham Hotspur to take advantage of the scheduling of Premier League fixtures and increase the pressure on leaders Chelsea by beating West Ham United on their first trip to the London Stadium on Friday night.
With Antonio Conte’s side not in action until Monday evening against Middlesbrough at Stamford Bridge, Spurs can move to within one point of Chelsea if they can overcome West Ham and record a 10th successive Premier League victory.
“It is good to go first – we have got to try to drop the gap to one point and see what happens,” said Kane, whose penalty in Sunday’s north-London derby helped to ensure Tottenham will finish above Arsenal for the first time since 1995.
“We knew what it was like last year with Leicester playing before us. It is difficult. It is good to try to play first and try to put that pressure on, so it will be good to play on Friday night. It is another tough game away from home but hopefully we can get that win, put that pressure on and wait and see.”
At this stage last season, Tottenham trailed Leicester City by five points but failed to win any of their last four games as they faded badly to end up in third spot. With a home match against Manchester United and trips to Leicester and relegation-threatened Hull City to follow West Ham, Spurs must contend with a potentially more difficult run-in compared with Chelsea. Kane is confident they can maintain their winning run until the end of the season – an achievement that would leave them one victory behind Arsenal’s Premier League record of 14 between February and August of 2002.
“We could end up on 89 [points] and still not win the league,” Kane said. “That would be disappointing. We have got four games in front of us and we feel like we can win all four. We feel we can beat anyone. We have just got to learn from what happened last year and we feel like we are doing that.”
After Monday’s meeting with Middlesbrough, Chelsea still have home games against Watford and relegated Sunderland after they travel to West Bromwich Albion on 12 May and know three wins would guarantee the title. Nemanja Matic, who was part of the side who held off Manchester City’s challenge in 2015 under José Mourinho, admitted they are wary of the threat posed by Spurs. “This year is more difficult,” he said. “We finished 2015 eight points more than City. I’m not sure that will be the case with Tottenham. I’m sure they won’t give up until the end. It’s hard.
“We win, Tottenham win. We try to win again and they win again. It’s close. We’ll see if they drop some points. They also have some difficult games at home and away. Everything is open until the end.”
West Ham are expected to put in place extra security measures after crowd trouble during their EFL Cup tie with Chelsea. Tottenham beat Slaven Bilic’s side 3-2 at White Hart Lane earlier this season and will experience the same upheaval as West Ham when they relocate to Wembley in the summer as work on their new ground intensifies.
Arsène Wenger has predicted it could take Tottenham some time to settle into their stadium when it is completed but Kane believes the prospect of playing in front of more than 60,000 supporters is one to savour.
“Every time we drive in we can see how big that stand is getting,” he said. “Everything is getting built up and it shows the way the club is going. We have got a fantastic manager who is one of the best in the world. We have got a great squad, a real togetherness and we are going in the right direction. We have got to make sure we continue that, don’t get carried away, even this season don’t get carried away. We have four games left that we have got to try to win. It is exciting times.”
Tottenham Hotspur could shelve their long-standing interest in Wilfried Zaha as a result of the Crystal Palace forward’s decision to represent Ivory Coast, amid concerns over his potential regular participation in the Africa Cup of Nations.
Zaha has enjoyed his most productive top-flight season yet, with six goals and nine assists so far, having signed a new long-term contract at Selhurst Park only last year. Palace, who are six points clear of the relegation zone with three games to play, have no desire to sell the 24-year-old and, once Premier League survival is achieved, intend to open talks over another deal to make him the highest paid player in the club’s history.
They had, however, been braced for Spurs to revive interest first expressed last August when a bid of only £12m was dismissed out of hand by the Palace chairman, Steve Parish. Mauricio Pochettino has long been an admirer of Zaha, who would add yet more raw pace and invention to Tottenham’s forward options, but the player’s decision to play for Ivory Coast despite having been capped twice in friendlies by England earlier in his career may now prompt Spurs to divert their interest elsewhere.
Zaha, with Palace’s blessing, successfully applied to Fifa towards the end of last year to represent the country of his birth. He was duly absent for almost four weeks, departing after a home defeat to Swansea on 3 January, while competing for Ivory Coast at the Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon, where his team failed to emerge from the group stage. The stunted nature of that campaign was considered a disappointment by the national set-up and, with that in mind, the Tottenham chairman, Daniel Levy, would need some persuading to table a club record bid for a player who could potentially be absent mid-season for up to six weeks every two years.
Spurs’ current transfer record is the £30m paid to Newcastle United for Moussa Sissoko last summer, and they would have had to eclipse that amount considerably if Palace were ever to be persuaded into a sale. Indeed, the anticipated contract to be proposed by the player’s current club if safety is secured – worth up to £110,000 a week – would be above any offer Tottenham’s current wage structure would allow.
Parish has already made publicly clear that he does not envisage selling Zaha this summer and has received indications the player is happy to stay at the club through whose youth set-up he graduated. “He did get a new contract last summer,” the chairman told BT Sport when asked about a new deal in the wake of the weekend defeat to Burnley. “I don’t think it’s about necessarily if other people are interested in him. It’s about the value of the player and the value of the player within the squad. We’ve got other players earning certain amounts and that all has to come into consideration.
“Anybody would accept that Wilfried has developed as a player this season. Six goals, nine assists, by far his best tally in the Premier League. So you’ve got to look at that. As club owners and chairmen, you want to keep everyone happy. We don’t want Wilfried just to stay here because we tell him he’s got to stay here. We want him to have the right deal for him, commensurate to where he’s got to in his professional career. So that is what we’ll be sitting down and talking about.”
Tottenham’s priority target this summer could end up being Ross Barkley given the uncertainty around the England midfielder’s contractual situation at Everton. The England right-back, Kyle Walker, could yet formalise his desire to leave White Hart Lane in search of better terms elsewhere – most probably with Manchester City – having grown frustrated with the strict wage structure imposed by Levy. The player has already sought talks with Pochettino and was a notable absentee from the lineup for the FA Cup semi-final against Chelsea and Sunday’s Premier League derby win over Arsenal.
Emre Can was still smiling in disbelief as he attempted to piece together the moment which had thrust hopes of reaching the Champions League firmly back into Liverpool’s hands. “I saw the space and I ran in behind,” he said, presumably referring to the area vacated by Adrian Mariappa who had been drawn forward sensing the true threat lay with Roberto Firmino. “My first thought was that I wanted to head it. Then I didn’t think too much.” Instinct took over in the airborne split-second which followed and an ugly contest was transformed.
Can will never score a better goal than the scissor-kick which claimed the spoils in this corner of Hertfordshire. His leap, almost balletic in its execution, was timed perfectly to meet Lucas Leiva’s pass. He flung himself diagonally towards the penalty spot.
Neither Nordin Amrabat nor Sebastian Prödl was in any kind of position to repel the centre but the German’s connection still needed to be sweet and true to find the corner. Heurelho Gomes, never anticipating such improvised brilliance, was too shocked to move but he would not have reached the ball anyway. “I have never scored a goal like that,” said a grinning Can. “Maybe when I was younger … no, that is the best I have ever scored.”
The Premier League may not have seen a better one this season, for all the eye-catching scorpion kicks and overheads which children have been attempting to mimic with glee in parks for months. They have new inspiration for the summer. That the scorer was a player who has been blunted at times by calf trouble this season, and whose contribution can be eclipsed by the more lavish forward thinkers in Liverpool’s ranks added to the drama.
Can will go into the final 12 months of his contract at Anfield in July with talks over a new deal at an impasse and the player himself having suggested he would prefer to be playing a deeper-lying role in the side. The real issue may be financial, though much more of this and he may be likelier to secure his wage demands than a change of position.
Liverpool departed this arena with a place in next season’s Champions League still in their own hands. The damage done by that home defeat by Crystal Palace eight days previously does not feel quite so severe in the aftermath of this result and the slips endured by both Manchester clubs over the weekend, with Can’s winner shifting Jürgen Klopp’s team four points clear of fifth-placed United. Win their last three games, against Southampton, West Ham and Middlesbrough, and they cannot be ousted from the top four. Those contests will not be straightforward, as Klopp was keen to point out, but rather that than a game of catch-up.
The visitors’ manager had actually made a beeline straight for Prödl, rather than Can, at the final whistle with nervous tension having long set in. He had been aghast seconds earlier when Tom Cleverley’s punt, and Stefan Okaka’s flick, had forced the loose ball on to the far post where the centre-half lurked to belt a shot on to the crossbar with Liverpool’s lives flashing before their eyes. It was actually the hosts’ best opportunity of a night of frustration but it ensured the overriding sensation at the final whistle was one of intense relief in the away dugout.
Klopp offered Prödl consolation through a smile before making his way into the corner towards the visiting support where all his frustration, pent up from the defeat by Palace, was released as he punched the air in celebration.
His team merited this, for all Watford’s exasperation at a flag-happy assistant referee. Liverpool had overcome the early loss of Philippe Coutinho to a dead leg, sustained in a fourth-minute challenge with Mariappa, to find some rhythm amid the huff and puff with Adam Lallana restored to their ranks. The England midfielder had had only “two proper sessions and a recovery session”, according to his manager, after five weeks out with thigh trouble, and yet his presence provided a level of reassurance.
It had been Lallana who planted a volley from Gomes’s punch four minutes from the interval which looped back over the goalkeeper and the muddle of bodies in the box to strike the woodwork. That superb effort would be trumped in what time remained before the break.
They were more assured once ahead, carrying a threat through Divock Origi and, late on, Daniel Sturridge with Gomes saving well from both, and they appeared to be repelling Watford with relative ease. M’Baye Niang’s bright start fizzled out, Troy Deeney was outnumbered and nullified, Simon Mignolet saved smartly from Daryl Janmaat, and Étienne Capoue – such a regular source of goals earlier in the campaign – saw his best effort tipped over the bar. Walter Mazzarri ended up slapping the side of his dugout at his team’s inability to make proper inroads.
There is a level of grumbling dissatisfaction at this club even after a season where they have rarely been embroiled in a relegation scrap. Watford’s owners may sense the time is approaching for further managerial upheaval. “But we hardly gave them anything, really,” said the Italian. “They just scored a great goal. The kind only champions score.”
At the end of every match and every training session for two years Saúl Ñíguez left the pitch, headed to the toilet and pissed blood. Every day it hurt, every day was a risk but the Atlético Madrid midfielder did not stop. Nor, though, did he entirely leave it behind until he returned to the place where his career could have ended – to the place his kidney burst.
That night in February 2015 at the BayArena in Leverkusen, barely able to stand, he had departed in the arms of the physio, vomiting repeatedly as they made their way to the dressing room; they had to stop seven times. Two years on he left the same arena having scored as Atlético beat Bayer Leverkusen 4-2 to put themselves on course for the Champions League quarter-finals where they met Leicester City. When they travelled to the King Power, having won the first leg 1-0, Saúl headed the goal that effectively ended the tie. Next up are Real Madrid, the club Saúl joined and left as a kid, the victim of bullying.
This is the fourth time Atlético have faced Real in the Champions League in four years, two of those in the final, first Lisbon in 2014 and then Milan in 2016. The last time they met in a knockout round was in spring 2015 in the quarter-finals. But Saúl was absent because of the injury in the previous round that had changed everything except his determination to play. They missed him: aged 20, scorer of an overhead kick against Real three weeks earlier in La Liga, he was coming into superb form when a first-half clash with Bayer Leverkusen’s Kyriakos Papadopoulos left him, in the words of the club’s president Enrique Cerezo, with his “kidney destroyed”.
“I think it was my first start in the Champions League and that happens,” Saúl recalled. “It was the worst night of my career, not just because of the injury itself but seeing my dad there in tears.”
Saúl carried on but could take no more and was eventually withdrawn just before half-time. In the dressing room he started to shake and then lost the feeling in his arms and legs, so he was taken to hospital by ambulance, accompanied by his terrified father. His team‑mates flew back to Madrid after the game but Saúl, who had previously suffered a renal colic while on loan at Rayo Vallecano, stayed in hospital in Leverkusen for four more days as the blood was drained. He did not play for a month but soon returned.
And that, it seemed, was that. Silently he suffered. Publicly he kept on playing – and ever more impressively. He has made over 100 appearances since then, including a Champions League final – Real again, another agonising defeat – which Atlético had reached thanks to his wonderful goal against Bayern Munich in the first leg of the semi-final at the Vincente Calderón, running from deep through the opposition defence. Now, for a second successive season, they aspire to make it to another final, this time in Cardiff.
Saúl has been vital in them getting this far, well beyond the goal at Leicester. His role had changed, a shift more important still because of injuries to Thiago and Augusto Fernández and the difficulties accommodating Koke centrally.
At Atlético they always knew Saúl had talent; it is the tactical maturity that is striking. He has always been self‑assured – he admits talking too much when he was younger – and saw himself as an attacking No8, driving into the area, and until this season he had played to the right or the left. Now, though, he has become “another Gabi”, according to one former youth team coach: deep, defensive and disciplined.
“He has always been a central midfielder. It is where he feels most confident,” his manager, Diego Simeone, said. “We played him left or right according to our needs but this is his position and he has everything: shots from mid-range, the ability to cover a lot of ground, good in the air, defensively strong, intensity. He is hugely important in the present and he will be in the future, as long as he wants to keep improving. He is young and he has the world before him.”
Saúl has been central to a recovery in the second half of the season that takes Atlético to territory they have trodden before. It has taken Saúl there, too. If Atlético must overcome familiar opponents to make the final, Saúl has already overcome familiar obstacles of his own. In the round of 16 they returned to Leverkusen and afterwards he revealed what had happened since his last visit. “For the last two years I played with an internal catheter,” he told Uefa. “I urinated blood after every training session and every match. I had to put my own health at risk to defend these colours and fulfil my dream. I gambled with my health, driven by the desire to play for Atlético. People don’t see that and don’t appreciate it.”
Waiting in the team hotel to embrace him and his father, José Antonio, when they arrived in Germany was the doctor who had operated on him. Waiting at the stadium were the memories. “I remembered it all,” he said. “How it happened, where I fell, how many times I vomited, the way my body went through convulsions, which hospital bed I was on, which chair I sat in, which team-mates came.” And then he scored a goal that he describes as a “brutal liberation” to help Atlético through.
“I felt relieved. It took a weight off my mind and the fear went away,” Saúl said. “It has been hard for me and my family and it was emotional scoring here. It was a special game. I came back to the place where I could have fallen.”
Another week of Super Rugby has passed and still no Australian team has beaten a New Zealand side in 2017. That’s nought from 15 attempts – up until this point, Australia’s worst return in the history of Super Rugby trans-Tasman clashes.
Desperate times call for desperate measures. Why not look at the hitherto unexplored idea of outsourcing professional player development to New Zealand on a short-term basis while Australian rugby rebuilds its woefully ineffective player development pathways? Should Australia send its second-tier National Rugby Championship teams across the ditch to participate in the Mitre 10 Cup competition?
While it might involve paying New Zealand Rugby a participation fee, it would mean new and attractive content for game-going punters and TV broadcasters. Think fixtures like Canterbury v Sydney Rays, Otago v Brisbane City, Waikato v Perth Spirit. Throw in the likes of Wellington, Auckland and others against the national footprint NRC teams and not only do you have a platform for accelerating player development, but also another revenue stream from which money can be earned for investment in community rugby. It makes complete sense.
And it’s a proposal worth looking at, says Waratahs CEO Andrew Hore. First, a disclaimer: Hore is a Kiwi. His rugby CV is impressive, including stints as high performance manager for New Zealand Rugby, conditioning director for Wales and, more recently, CEO of Ospreys. In rugby currency, he is arguably the best credentialed Super Rugby CEO in Australia. He’s been at the forefront of what works (New Zealand) and what doesn’t (Australia, and to a lesser extent Wales in the early noughties). In short, he’s someone the Australian Rugby Union should listen to.
Speaking to Guardian Australia just before the Waratahs v Reds game on Saturday night, Hore said Australian rugby could turn itself around in “two and half to three years’ maximum”.
Asked if the radical proposal of sending Australia’s eight NRC teams to play in the Mitre 10 Cup could accelerate player development in the short-term, Hore said: “Does it have merit – yes, it does. It would be great for coaches, it would be great for players and it would enhance the competition,” he said. “The NRC is actually not a bad competition. But we want it to be commercially sustainable – playing in the Mitre 10 Cup might give it greater commercial sustainability, and connect through to the community.”
Hore, however, cautioned against the notion of “just one silver bullet” fixing Australian rugby’s seemingly terminal decline. He has a list of concerns of which player wage inflation sits at the very top. However, underpinning most issues is a lack of consultation and collaboration between state unions, Super franchises, and the Australian Rugby Union.
Hore accepts the game is in crisis in Australia. He’s been saying this for some time. Rugby is in freefall with plummeting crowds and dwindling pay TV ratings. The public – rugby people at that – have simply switched off.
Meanwhile, New Zealand are not only slaughtering Australia on the field but off it as well. NZ Rugby’s annual report delivered at its AGM in Wellington last week revealed a game in rude health. The Kiwis are in no doubt whatsoever about why they’re going gangbusters – significant investment in community rugby. “The success of our national and Super Rugby teams is entirely reliant on the success of community rugby,” the annual report says. “This investment in community rugby is growing the pool of future All Blacks.”
It’s hardly rocket science – it’s the “building the bottom of the pyramid” model the AFL does so well. And yet, for reasons we may never quite know or understand, Australian rugby has never meaningfully embraced this model despite repeated calls to do so from well-respected former Wallabies and grassroots advocates such as Brett Papworth and Simon Poidevin.
While rugby has withered in Australia, lawn bowls and ballroom dancing have prospered coast to coast – at rugby’s expense – if you believe Roy Morgan Research. Lawn bowls ahead of rugby. It’s scarcely believable.
Unsurprisingly, Australian Rugby Union chief executive Bill Pulver and chairman Cameron Clyne are sitting ducks for an angry mob spearheaded by former Wallabies coach and broadcaster Alan Jones, who crucified Cameron on air recently. Jones left Cameron severely dazed and confused, the proverbial deer in the headlights. It’s the same stunned mullet look Pulver has worn for much of his tenure as the game’s highest official.
It’s clear Cameron and Pulver don’t have the answers. In fact, to many people in the game they are a big part of the problem. Such is the distrust of the ARU by provincial unions and Super franchise bosses, it’s fair to say the pair’s prospects for the ongoing stewardship of the game are damaged beyond repair.
Hore didn’t name names but it was clear where he was coming from with a thinly veiled homage to Will Carling’s infamous “old farts” quotes. “It could have something to do with the maturity level and maybe the age of some of the administrators in this part of the world … we’re starting to see is some tired individuals, people who don’t know what else is out and about,” he said.
At the heart of the matter, Hore says, is a lack of collaboration and consultation. “We don’t have a great deal of collaboration. That’s the big difference between here and NZ. There’s almost a feeling with that group [rugby administrators] of being intimidated by consulting down. It’s as if they’re embarrassed if they don’t have the answer to bring to the table. I say give the problems to the people to bring back some solutions.”
Ben Stokes hit his maiden Twenty20 century despite battling cramp in his calf to lead Rising Pune Supergiant to victory against Gujarat Lions in the Indian Premier League.
The IPL’s most expensive foreign player was back after missing two games with a shoulder injury, and he lived up to his £1.7m price tag by smashing a brilliant unbeaten 103 off 63 balls as RPS chased down 161 to win by five wickets.
His knock, which included seven fours and six sixes, was even more remarkable in that he came in with his team 10 for three and had to fight through cramp which required treatment out in the middle prior to the last over.
It was the fourth century of this season’s IPL and only the second ever by an Englishman after Kevin Pietersen also made 103 in 2012. Stokes also shattered his previous T20 best of 77, which he made on his Big Bash debut in 2015.
“We lost quite a few early wickets, that start didn’t help us, but me and MS [Dhoni] were just trying to tick along and get something going, and then try and capitalise in the end,” Stokes said. “We took it like a numbers game, over by over, realised what we got, tried to go big at the start of the over and if we got there we tried to cool off. It worked - one of the good days.
“It’s always nice, personal accolades, but we’re on a roll as a team and if we keep winning these tight games hopefully we can get through to the final.”
On his injury, Stokes said: “It was just cramp in the calves, just one of those things, I get it quite a lot. My legs aren’t feeling the best but they will be alright in the morning.”
Stokes was only on 26 when he was involved in a mix-up with Rahul Tripathi that saw the latter run out, though it could easily been the Englishman had he not scampered through for an attempted second.
Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Stokes then came together and put on 76 and though it still looked like a tall order, the IPL’s most pricey foreign import cut loose alongside Daniel Christian, who won it with a maximum off the penultimate ball.
Out of England’s quintet of one-day stars on show in the first Roses match of the summer it was Adil Rashid who stood out with two wickets in an expertly crafted spell as Yorkshire showed why many believe they will end their 15-year wait for a one-day trophy.
Jonny Bairstow and Joe Root fell cheaply in the early stages of Yorkshire’s commanding but not flawless batting performance. They should have posted closer to 330 after recovering from an early wobble at 87 for three, though they always had Lancashire at arm’s length in the defence, with Rashid’s 10 overs yielding two wickets for 34, with both of them coming from perfectly landed googlies. Of the 14 past and present internationals selected by the two sides, including the England Test pair of Jimmy Anderson and Haseeb Hameed in the lime green of Lancashire, the Australian Test batsman Peter Handscomb and Yorkshire’s in-form captain, Gary Ballance, had almost as significant an impact on the game as Rashid.
They shared Yorkshire’s record fourth-wicket partnership of 143 in a List A Roses match, with Handscomb top-scoring with 86 and Ballance making 85. The latter looked to be heading for his fourth hundred in eight innings across all formats this season. They batted positively but not recklessly, although ironically they will no doubt both look back with a touch of regret at the manner of their dismissals as the home innings subsided from 230 for three in the 38th over. Handscomb had hit two sixes and a four off Luke Procter in the first four balls of an over before chancing his arm once too many times and finding the wicketless Anderson at deep mid-wicket.
Ballance was lbw reverse sweeping at Stephen Parry’s left-arm spin two balls after being dropped at short third man playing the same shot. Handscomb was the first of six wickets to fall for 52, including the last five for 20 in 27 balls as only 64 runs came off the last 12 overs to give Lancashire hope.
Root, fresh from his match‑sealing 75 not out against Nottinghamshire at Trent Bridge on Saturday, could not repeat the trick as he cut Lancashire’s overseas all-rounder Ryan McLaren to backward point for 21. He had already seen Bairstow inside edge the same bowler behind for 28 as Yorkshire’s innings started shakily.
The momentum Lancashire created with the ball was quickly halted as they lost the opener Procter and Hameed inside nine overs of their chase. Hameed, curiously dropped down to No3 after a debut 88 against Leicestershire on Friday, left the score at 42 for two when he miscued the England Under-19s captain, Matt Fisher, to mid-on. This was after Procter had chopped on to Tim Bresnan. Lancashire just about managed to keep their heads above water during the first half of the chase.
Alex Davies hit 43 before being trapped lbw to a perfectly landed googly from Rashid, whose performance in front of the TV cameras will have no doubt enthused the England coach, Trevor Bayliss, before the start of the international summer this week.
Lancashire were 80 for three when Davies departed in the 19th over but the captain, Liam Livingstone, showed glimpses of his talent as he seamlessly moved into the early thirties. He scooped Liam Plunkett for six over the wicketkeeper Bairstow’s head before seeing Karl Brown slap Azeem Rafiq’s second ball to mid-off – 125 for four in the 28th – and falling himself for 32 shortly afterwards, bowled by another Rashid googly which skidded on. Realistically, given the importance of leg-spinners in white-ball cricket these days, Rashid has to put in similar performances for England if they are to win the Champions Trophy next month. Jordan Clark hit a couple of monstrous sixes as Lancashire slipped further, with one off David Willey over long-on thudding into the top of the Carnegie Pavilion. Willey finished with two wickets and Rafiq four for 47 as Yorkshire, who fielded brilliantly, won with 6.4 overs to spare.
The Yorkshire director of cricket, Martyn Moxon, said: “It’s pleasing to get two wins out of two. That was a pretty good all-round performance again. There was a slight disappointment we didn’t get more runs in those final 10 overs of our innings when we were set up so well.
“Other than that, we have got to be very pleased with the win and the performance. Peter looked fantastic. Hopefully he is coming into a rich vein of form. Obviously Gary’s continuing his fine form. Their partnership was crucial.
“It was a fantastic display of batting because the conditions at that time were tricky with the lights on and dampness in the pitch. To get to 240 with 10 overs left was outstanding. We still felt that 290 was a good score if we bowled well. And we certainly did.
“Adil was outstanding. His wickets with his googlies were good to see. He showed his value to the team and what he’s capable of. Also, don’t underestimate Azeem’s performance. He picked up four wickets at a time when the batsmen were looking to attack. He varied his pace extremely well.”
Another reason for the selectors to be cheerful came at Edgbaston as the England Test opener Keaton Jennings hit 139 from 101 balls as Durham beat Warwickshire by 72 runs. Jennings helped Durham to 313-5 off 39 overs in a rain-affected game and, despite Jonathan Trott’s 92, the Bears were skittled for 241.
Minding, winner of five of her seven outings in Group 1 races last season, made an impressive start to her four-year-old career in the Mooresbridge Stakes at Naas on Monday, as she made most of the running under Ryan Moore and coasted home three and a half lengths in front of Moonlight Magic.
In a sense Minding did no more than her starting price of 1-3 would imply but, having won Group 1 events in her first two seasons on the track, Monday’s race offered evidence that, while she has continued to develop physically, her abundant racing talent remains intact. Minding responded immediately when Moore asked her to lengthen in the straight and she established a decisive lead in a few strides, in a style carrying echoes of her win in last season’s Queen Elizabeth II Stakes on Champions Day at Ascot.
Minding now seems certain to return to Group 1 company, probably for the remainder of the season, and while the competition will be stronger for her next start, Aidan O’Brien’s filly will be the likely favourite wherever she runs. Minding is entered in the Lockinge Stakes over a mile at Newbury on 20 May but O’Brien’s initial feeling seemed to be to run in the 10-furlong Tattersalls Gold Cup at The Curragh eight days later before moving on to Royal Ascot, where Minding could contest either the Queen Anne Stakes on the opening day or the Prince of Wales’s Stakes the following afternoon.
“She’s done well physically and has changed into a four-year-old,” O’Brien said. “When she was a two-year-old she looked like a two-year-old and then she looked like a three-year-old, but sometimes horses going from three to four don’t look like four-year-olds. She has changed.
“We’ll probably be looking at the Tattersalls, I’d imagine that’s where we’ll go. We’ll take it one at a time but we’d be thinking of the Prince Of Wales at Royal Ascot then. She’s a great filly and what she did last year was incredible. To go back to a mile at the end, it’s very rare a horse can do that over a mile, a mile and a quarter and a mile and a half.”
Minding is the 5-2 favourite for the Prince of Wales’s Stakes with William Hill ahead of Almanzor, last season’s Champion Stakes winner, at 9-2. Other possible runners in the race include André Fabre’s Cloth Of Stars, who is a 10-1 chance after winning the Prix Ganay at Saint-Cloud on Monday, the first Group 1 event of the European season.
Fabre said on Monday that he is “quite confident” that his colt Al Wukair will make the frame in Saturday’s 2,000 Guineas at Newmarket, and his confidence was probably bolstered after only 12 horses were declared for the first Classic of the new campaign at the five-day stage.
O’Brien’s colt Churchill, the winner of last season’s Dewhurst Stakes, remains the clear favourite for the Guineas at a top price of 15-8, ahead of Barney Roy, the Greenham Stakes winner, and Al Wukair, both on 9-2. Eminent, who took the Craven Stakes at Newmarket last month over the Guineas course and distance, is a 5-1 chance and it is 16-1 bar the four.
“Al Wukair did his final piece of work this morning and I was happy with everything,” Fabre said. “I am quite confident he will be in the first three on Saturday but I am a bit concerned that he was not a Group 1 winner as a two-year-old, something that most Guineas winners have already achieved, including both of mine [Zafonic and Pennekamp].
“The ground is not a worry for him as he has won on soft and it was on the fast side for [his win in the Prix] Djebel [last month]. He seems well balanced so neither is [the undulating] course a major concern.”
Brighton
2.00 Floss The Hoss 2.30 Otomo 3.00 Bahamian Sunrise (nb) 3.35 Lorelina 4.10 Ettie Hart 4.40 Black Caesar 5.10 Hold Firm
Chelmsford
6.10 Dorcas 6.40 Paddy A 7.10 Mabrook 7.40 Ickymasho 8.10 Zac Brown 8.40 Frank The Barber 9.10 Pete So High
Nottingham
2.10 Silver Bullet 2.40 Meteor Light 3.10 Scribner Creek 3.45 La Casa Tarifa (nap) 4.20 Midnight Vixen 4.50 On Fire 5.25 Batten The Hatches
Wolverhampton
6.00 Senor George 6.30 Brimham Rocks 7.00 Al Nafoorah 7.30 Oratorio’s Joy 8.00 Russian Ranger 8.30 Our Kid 9.00 Prince Of Time
Yarmouth
2.20 To Wafij 2.50 Ocelot 3.25 Hope Is High 4.00 Fantasy Gladiator 4.30 Gothic Empire 5.00 Across Dubai 5.30 The Yellow Bus
Kingsley Amis once wrote the act of getting drunk was much better than actually being drunk. Those first few glasses, the process of moving from sober to drunk is 90% of the fun. Being drunk, on the other hand, is a slog, a losing game, each extra sip a case of chasing with ever-decreasing returns that initial spitz of happiness.
By this register, two seasons into the Mauricio Pochettino revolution and with Arsenal finally reeled in after the derby win on Sunday, Tottenham Hotspur are probably on their fourth or fifth glass of champagne and just about hitting the sweet spot. From here the question is simple: how to ensure this is a genuinely altered state and more than simply a moment of glorious tipsiness.
This is already a lot more than just a little surface euphoria. Before kick‑off on a muggy derby afternoon it was tempting, as ever, to marvel at the unstoppable rise of the mega-stadium mushrooming up next door. By now White Hart Lane Mk2 is all set to start the process of eating the old ground, concrete esplanades extended around each side like the jaws of some vast corporate python.
It is a rare moment of optimism for club and supporters, with a fine manager in place, the best core of young players in the country and the promise of that multisport super-complex. Albeit one that will, as ever in sport, be laced with a little anxiety.
At which point it is necessary to ask what Tottenham have to do from here not just to match Arsenal but to avoid becoming a mimetic replicant; to ensure the step-up does not evaporate into a prolonged anxiety of stasis and slow‑onset hangover, the nausea of Arsenal-style repetition.
Too soon? Not really. Tottenham have already been the most interesting team in the Premier League for the past two seasons. For long periods they have been the best, too. Add together the past two seasons and Spurs are 10 points clear of their nearest rival at the top of the two-year Premier League table.
And yet they have not won anything. By the end of the season Leicester City, Manchester United, Manchester City and one or both of Chelsea and Arsenal will have all won a trophy in that same period. Whereas to date Spurs’ reward for all that sustained excellence, the relentless drills, the gold standard recruitment, is one poor season in Europe, another shot next year and an undeniable improvement in the league.
This is surely why Pochettino is pushing this team so hard even now, desperate to press Chelsea right to the end. The idea Middlesbrough might be able to resist at Stamford Bridge on Monday night was given a small push by their home draw with Manchester City. West Bromwich away is far from a gimme. Chelsea are of course still powerful favourites but it is hard to avoid the feeling the best chance to win the Premier League is right here and right now. Who knows, this could be the top of the curve, or at least the top of this particular curve, for a team cobbled together with such skill and care in the shadow of all those commercial pressures.
Just ask Arsenal fans, who can perhaps allow themselves a weary sigh of recognition here. Spurs will face the same problems in the next few years of post-stadium angst: the need to keep pulling in the revenues, the ease with which your best players can be lured away, the challenge of facing down billionaire-driven projects and European super-clubs elsewhere. Even this season Tottenham could finish on 89 points, enough to win the league in nine of the past 10 seasons, and still come second. Welcome to our world, neighbours. A place where you can excel, look great, win friends, play nicely and still not cross the finish line first.
On the plus side, even in the current Spurs team there is still slack to be taken up, progress Pochettino can make. There is an inconsistency to this young team, purple periods undermined by the odd wobble. Between 15 October and 11 December last year Spurs won three of 13 matches, went out of the Champions League and the League Cup and dropped 11 points. If they could have just held on to draw at Stamford Bridge in the middle of all that they would now be top of the league.
Something similar happened the previous autumn with 13 league points dropped from 1 October to 13 December. Perhaps this is a legacy of breaking in those relentless pressing drills, finding the deeper rhythms for that game of sprints and hustle. Either way Pochettino will be aware of the dip and will work at pre-empting it next time, helped perhaps by a non-tournament summer.
Beyond this there is a slight lack of squad depth. In both cases the autumn lull had a degree of crossover with reliance on Harry Kane as the team’s sole functioning top-class centre-forward. Even the £47m spent last summer on Vincent Janssen and Moussa Sissoko looked to be weighted the wrong way round. The larger portion would surely have been better spent on a quality backup striker rather than a lumpen winger.
No doubt Pochettino and Daniel Levy are capable of tending to all these issues. And it is here the distinctions with Arsenal present themselves. Tottenham are a supremely well-run club these days, with the chairman’s gimlet eye fixed on every detail. Only Swansea have spent less over the past five seasons in the Premier League. Plus, of course, Spurs have Pochettino, a state of the art, tactically omnivorous coach who has been able to create an excitingly refined and flexible system within the present group of hard‑running players.
This much was apparent on Sunday where Spurs’ defensive shape revolved around Eric Dier’s versatility, a meat and potatoes player without the most refined technique but with a fine tactical awareness and the intelligence to make a defensive plan work.
That hunger to adapt and learn is the real edge over late-Wenger Arsenal. It is this quality of ruthlessness that will also tell Pochettino this is the time to cash in this Spurs team, to try to make it more than just a brilliantly alluring interlude and to ensure the moment of ascent does not remain the high point of the new north-London order.
Paula Radcliffe and Jonathan Edwards have reacted with incredulity and dismay to news that all athletics world and European records before 2005 are likely to be stripped from the record books.
Radcliffe, who set the world marathon record in 2003, told the Guardian she was “offended” by proposals that were approved by European Athletics at the weekend, adding that it “unfairly damages the reputations of many innocent athletes”. Meanwhile Edwards, whose triple jump record dates back to 1995, called them “wrong-headed and cowardly” – and warned it will further erode trust in athletics. The plan, which is strongly backed by Seb Coe, president of the International Association of Athletics Federations, will not only require anyone who sets a world record to have been tested numerous times in the months beforehand but also to have the sample taken after their record performance still available for retesting.
The IAAF has stored blood and urine samples only since 2005, which means the records by Edwards and Radcliffe are at risk of being struck from the books, along with Colin Jackson’s indoor 60m hurdles world record of 7.30sec set in 1994.
Edwards told the Guardian he fundamentally disagreed with the decision. “I wish they had the courage of their convictions,” he said. “If there are records that are unbelievable and suspicious, go for those. I thought my record would go some day, just not to a bunch of sports administrators. It seems incredibly wrong-headed and cowardly. And I don’t think it achieves what they want it to. Instead it cast doubts on generations of athletics performances.”
Radcliffe said: “I fully understand the desire and need to restore credibility to our sport but don’t feel that this achieves that. It is yet one more way that clean athletes are made to suffer for the actions of cheats.” On Twitter she wrote: “I am hurt and do feel this damages my reputation and dignity. It is a heavy-handed way to wipe out some really suspicious records in a cowardly way by simply sweeping all aside instead of having the guts to take the legal plunge and wipe any record that would be found in a court of law to have been illegally assisted. It is confusing to the public at a time when athletics is already struggling to market itself.”
The proposal would also mean historical world records, including Mike Powell’s world long jump of 8.95m and Hicham El Guerrouj’s 1500m time of 3min 26.00sec would be erased from the books. Others that have long been seen as dubious, such as Florence Griffith-Joyner’s 100m and 200m world records and numerous world bests set by eastern bloc athletes during the Cold War when state-sponsored doping was rife and there was no out-of-competition testing, would also be wiped.
However, Usain Bolt’s 100m and 200m records, David Rudisha’s 800m best and Wayde van Niekerk’s 400m are likely to remain on the books as they were set more recently – providing they meet the new rules.
Pierce O’Callaghan, who led the European Athletics project team, said he was confident the plan would survive legal challenges. “We are not casting doubt on the previous records at all, just saying the criteria have changed,” he said.
The IAAF is expected to approve the proposal in July and it is likely to come into effect within the next 12 months.
Wimbledon will announce a steep rise in prize money for this year’s tennis champions as the tournament seeks to counter the pound’s fall in value following the Brexit vote, reports suggest.
In 2016, champions Andy Murray and Serena Williams each took home £2m, from a total pot of £28m. This was a 6.4% rise on 2015’s prize money. But this year the increase could be significantly larger as the All England Club aims to compensate for the falling pound, The Times reports.
The amounts are expected to be announced on Wednesday, and prize money would have to be £2.25m to maintain its dollar value compared to previous years.
Last year’s tournament took place weeks after the referendum’s shock result, which sent the pound tumbling against the dollar. By the time Andy Murray lifted the trophy on Centre Court on 10 July, £1 was worth $1.29, down from $1.48 on 23 June – before the referendum’s result was announced. This means his £2m prize was worth $2.6m - $380,000 less than it would have been on the eve of the referendum.
The pound is currently at its post-referendum level again.
The All England Club would have to announce a significant increase to match the US Open, which in 2016 gave $3.5m (currently £2.7m) apiece to its singles champions. This year the Australian Open offered AUD$3.7m (US $2.8m), which at current sterling values (£2.2m) would push Wimbledon’s top prizes into third place among the Grand Slam rankings. The French Open’s top prize is €2.1m (£1.8m).
In 2017 both the Australian and French Opens made significant increases in their total prize pots, with the Melbourne tournament announcing a 14% rise, with much of the increase going to those bumped out in early rounds, and the Paris tournament’s fund rising by 12%.
A spokeswoman for Wimbledon did not confirm the report but said: “The All England Lawn Tennis Club always takes into account the business and economic context of tennis worldwide, including any currency fluctuations, when determining prize money for each year’s championships.”
Vincent Kompany said Manchester City’s players have taken time to adapt to Pep Guardiola’s approach since his arrival last summer but expects them to end the season strongly and secure Champions League qualification for the eighth consecutive season.
Gabriel Jesus’s equaliser five minutes from time against Middlesbrough on Sunday maintained City’s one-point lead over Manchester United in fifth spot, with Guardiola’s side also level on points and goal difference with third-placed Liverpool as the season reaches its climax.
Crystal Palace are the next visitors to the Etihad Stadium towards the end of a first season under the former Barcelona and Bayern Munich manager that many had predicted would end in a title challenge.
Since winning their first six Premier League matches, that hope has petered out with only three victories in their last eight games while Chelsea and Tottenham Hotspur have moved clear in the top two places. Kompany, who made only his sixth start of another injury-hit campaign against Middlesbrough, believes the best is yet to come from City.
“You can’t compare Barcelona and Bayern Munich to Manchester City,” he said in an interview with the Belgian television channel Play Sports. “Guardiola has come to City with a very unique style. And he wants to continue that philosophy. We had to work to adapt to his style. I don’t want to sugarcoat it but I think next season we’ll see if his approach was the right one. It looks like everything is already here but we are still a club under construction. Next season we’ll have to perform better.”
After Palace, City must also play Leicester City and West Bromwich Albion at home before ending the season at Watford. Kompany hopes that could hand them an advantage in the race for the top four and insisted the squad was focused on ending a disappointing campaign on a high. He said: “We will do everything we can to win the last four games but it’s in our heads. It’s not about looking at one game we don’t have to win, or looking at one game above another.
“Every game is priority and we approach every game in that way anyway. I’d swing the hammer if I had to, if I thought there was a lack of motivation or lack of desire. That’s something we shouldn’t allow but I really believe that’s not the case.
“Finish strongly now and we give ourselves something to look forward to next season, because you want to be in four competitions. Sometimes exceptional seasons are built on seasons like this.”
Kompany has started five of City’s past six games – his longest run of matches for nearly two years owing to niggling injuries. The 31-year-old signed from Hamburg in 2008 still has two years left on his contract and, if he can remain fit, has set his sights on leading City to a Champions League triumph before his time is up.
“I’m very happy. I’ve worked so hard, I’ve fought so hard for this,” he said. “My motivation has always been high. I’ve never doubted myself. I’ve that happy feeling: look, I’m back again! I have always been rational. I know my situation and I know why I came back. As long as I feel that inner strength, I’ll be all right. My only wish is that I could be part of the team that reaches that final goal [winning the Champions League]. One day it will happen – I’m sure.”
Fourth place for Lewis Hamilton is not what he needed in a title fight with Sebastian Vettel and indeed one that could now include his team-mate, Valtteri Bottas. He has not finished off the podium since Malaysia last year and that was a DNF. The three-times world champion lacked performance all weekend and could not put the car where he wanted. During practice he could not get the tyres in the operating window, in qualifying he lacked balance and in the race there was an overheating problem. All of which he and the team are going to investigate.
He has had off weekends before, Baku and Singapore last year for example, but what must be of more concern for the British driver is that neither he nor they could identify the problems, in stark contrast to Bottas who adjusted his car through the sessions and had it dialled in perfectly on Sunday. “I don’t know the fine details, the engineers will give me a full summary,” Hamilton said. “The direction he was able to go in I wasn’t able to and I don’t understand fully why. Our driving styles are quite similar, so I’m not sure what else in the car was stopping me going in that direction.” Nailing the answers before Barcelona is crucial.
Before the race the talk surrounding Mercedes was centred on prospective team orders and both drivers proved on message, emphasising that the team would come first and that they would work together to that end. Bottas’s victory has complicated the scenario further, however. The Finn has made it clear he believes he can challenge for the title and he lacks neither the self-belief nor the confidence to do so. He has out-qualified Hamilton twice now and, as Niki Lauda pointed out, the first win is always the hardest. “The next one will come easy,” said Lauda. “He has proven he can win.”
Hamilton remains the favourite of the pair to be fighting Vettel for the title but Bottas is a genuinely credible challenger. While Vettel does not look to be in a battle with his team-mate, Kimi Raikkonen, if Bottas comes at Hamilton they may begin taking points from one another. Both are fiercely competitive and, whatever the well-rehearsed message was before Russia, both will have the drivers’ title as their real goal. They are not carrying the baggage, as Toto Wolff has it, that Hamilton had with Rosberg but another win for Bottas would add a fascinating edge to their relationship.
Ferrari looked to have the pace over Mercedes all weekend at Sochi, quickest through all three practice sessions, their first pole of the season for Vettel and the Scuderia’s first front-row lock-out since Magny Cours in 2008. But by the time the chequered flag fell, Mercedes had maintained their record of being the only team to have won the Russian Grand Prix. The track plays to the strengths of the Mercedes, especially in power through the first two sectors and in the low degradation surface but with Ferrari having promised so much right up until the lights went out, they will be disappointed not to have been able quite to match Bottas. Vettel arguably lost his best chance when the Finn out-dragged him on the run to turn two and forced Ferrari into adopting an alternative strategy by keeping the German out longer. But beyond the result the weekend was hugely positive for the Scuderia. Their car looked superbly balanced throughout and the drivers very comfortable with it, even Raikkonen. They are able to attack the corners, it is much less demanding on tyre wear and is proving quick to dial-in to new tracks. The victory was not forthcoming but on this form in the high temperatures and higher degradation of Barcelona, they should be favourites.
Sauber announced before the grand prix they would be switching engine suppliers from Ferrari to Honda for 2018, having been in negotiations to do so since March. They are currently running last year’s Ferrari engine, a compromise that means they are unable to challenge the midfield but it is a switch that has been greeted with some incredulity given the engine manufacturer’s travails this season and for the past two years.
The team principal, Monisha Kaltenborn, believes, as do McLaren, that Honda will come good. “We are absolutely confident that Honda will make improvements and sort out their issues. We are convinced that it is going to happen,” she said. Unfortunately her words looked wildly optimistic after Fernando Alonso was unable to start in Russia due to an ERS failure. He has yet to finish a race this season and McLaren have yet to score a point. Honda will benefit from supplying another team in terms of developing their engine but they need results now, not in 2018.
In China the McLaren executive director, Zak Brown, said that at least the engine was reliable, a claim that looks increasingly doubtful. The Honda director, Yusuke Hasegawa, believes the core principals of the power unit are strong. “We still need time,” he said. “But we don’t think we made a huge mistake, the direction was right.” The real loss of it all, as we saw in Russia, is being denied the chance to see Alonso, a truly magnificent driver, race. His talent is going to waste and doubtless the outing to the Brickyard cannot come soon enough.
Having been off the pace in the first two rounds in Australia and China, Red Bull showed some improvement in Bahrain, which puzzled even the drivers since the car had not been upgraded. There was no need for any head scratching in Russia, as the performance gap to Mercedes and Ferrari was back to the chasm of the opening races. Daniel Ricciardo was almost two seconds off Vettel’s pole time in qualifying and Max Verstappen outside that. Ricciardo retired with a right-rear brake fire that the team are still investigating but Verstappen, who finished in fifth, was a full minute behind Bottas. The team are putting huge store in what will in effect be a new car for the next round in Barcelona. Ricciardo certainly wanted a real step forward. “I hope for a bit of a bullet,” he said. “Something fast. We want to be in a three-way fight with Ferrari and Mercedes.”
Their car is lacking grip in the rear, highly unexpected in a downforce package designed by Adrian Newey. Spain will hopefully see an improvement but in the meantime Ferrari and Mercedes have opened a points gap to match the times and it is almost certainly too much for Red Bull to come back from to mount a title challenge. Unless Newey has a magic bullet up his sleeve.
Barry Hearn has ruled out a return to snooker’s days of paying out massive jackpots for 147 breaks and told anyone who complains to “get out of the sport”, a week after Ronnie O’Sullivan missed the chance of a maximum score in the world championship.
Heading into the second day of the world championship final on Monday, there had been no maximum in the tournament, and with just £5,000 as the 147 bonus there has been only a modest incentive on offer.
Stephen Hendry made the last Crucible maximum, in 2012, and there have been only 10 in the history of the tournament with three of them made by O’Sullivan and three by Hendry.
O’Sullivan delivered perhaps the greatest break seen when he made a maximum in just five minutes and 20 seconds in the 1997 tournament, for which he banked a £147,000 bonus plus the £18,000 high-break prize.
Despite the change of policy on pay-outs Hearn, the World Snooker chairman, thinks any player who turns down a 147, or does not think about attempting one, does not belong in snooker.
O’Sullivan made a 146 break in his quarter-final defeat against Ding Junhui, denying afterwards that he took pink rather than black after the 13th red to deliberately snub the 147 prize.
“I think Ronnie ran out of position on his,” Hearn said. “The fact of life is that when Phil Taylor got his first nine-darter we paid out £100,000 but we get them every week now.
“Ronnie got a 147 previously and I think he got £147,000 plus the high-break prize. We’ve had lots of 147s this year. The fact is that a 147, whether we like it or not, and we can be romantic about it, isn’t as significant as it was in the old days because we have so many of them.
“But if a professional player who is there not just to win games but to play to the best of his ability for whatever reason either turns down or doesn’t try for one, then I am disgusted with their lack of professionalism.
“If this game is only about money, if it’s just about a few bob, in a world where the prize money has changed from £3.5m to £12m and greedy people still can moan, frankly they should get out of the sport.”
On 27 August 2016, the Philadelphia Union beat Sporting Kansas City 2-0 on a cloudy night in Chester, Pennsylvania. Roland Alberg and Tranquillo Barnetta scored the goals, and goalkeeper Andre Blake kept his sixth clean sheet of the year. The mood around the team was buoyant. The Union, after years of mediocrity, were starting to turn their fortunes around. They had just secured back-to-back victories, and also set a team record for home wins in a season. They were third place in the East, and looking certain to make their first playoff appearance since 2011. Coach Jim Curtin couldn’t stop singing his team’s praises. “This is a very good team,” he said. “We should be shooting for the top of the East … It’s only going to get better.”
In fact, it was only going to get worse. The victory over the Kansas City would be the Union’s last MLS victory in 2016. They were able to sneak into the playoffs on goal differential, where they were promptly eliminated by Toronto. Now, they are without a victory in 2017. Their winless streak stands at 15 regular-season games. The last time the Union got three points, the nation was still cringing over Ryan Lochte’s frat-boy chicancery in Rio, Sia’s Cheap Thrills was the top song on the radio, and Barack Obama was president. What a difference 247 days makes.
Nor does their malaise look likely to end anytime soon. The Union drew 0-0 in LA on Saturday in a dour game that typified the worst of scoreless draws. (The MLS website’s “Four-Minute Highlights” package could only muster up three minutes worth showing.) Philly had two shots on goal, and always looked more cohesive than dangerous. Damningly, the draw with LA was also one of their better performances this season. They have four points from eight games, and are rooted to the bottom of the table. They are tied for the second-worst goal differential in the league, and have scored the fewest goals in the East. They somehow managed to draw with Montreal two weeks ago, even though they led 3-0 after 40 minutes. They are the sole remaining team this season without a win. If Curtin was wondering how high the ceiling was for the 2016 Union, perhaps he should be concerned about how low the floor can be for the 2017 version.
This is not a historically bad team yet, but they’re precipitously close. If Philadelphia continue to pick up points at their current pace, they’ll finish with 17. DC United hold the record for the fewest in a season, with 16 in 2013. The longest winless streak in MLS history is 19 games, which the New York/New Jersey Metrostars accomplished in 1999. (It is also, at 7-25, the worst record in MLS history.) Real Salt Lake managed to go 18 straight without a win in a dire stretch from 2005 to 2006. And the San Jose Earthquakes self-detonated at the tail end of 2014, to finish on the low note of a 16-game winless skid. After that? This current iteration of the Philadelphia Union. The margins are far thinner than they might appear.
When a team suffers this completely and this extensively, the first instinct is to blame the coach. Curtin has been pilloried for being rigid; he refuses to send his teams out in anything but a conventional 4-2-3-1. In today’s MLS — where tireless fullbacks like Seattle’s Joevin Jones and Toronto’s Steven Beitashour overload the wings to create consistent offensive mismatches — Curtin’s teams can look outdated and underpowered, set out to fail from the first whistle. It doesn’t help that their two big summer signings, Haris Medunjanin and Jay Simpson, both look overwhelmed by physical nature of the MLS, out of breath and out of ideas.
Then there’s the question of what to do with club record-signing and captain Alejandro Bedoya. Before that now-fateful victory over Kansas, Curtin was gushing over Bedoya’s impact: “To think he’s in his preseason now is a scary thing … I can’t say enough positives about him.” Flash-forward to the present, and the relationship seems to be much more tepid. Bedoya has looked off-pace and introspective in his time with the Union, a peripheral figure at the edges of a team decline. Curtin has been playing Bedoya as a No10, but conceded that “he and I are in agreement that it isn’t his favorite spot.” Bedoya himself was more blunt in preseason when he said, “I feel more comfortable being a No8.”
This is where Curtin’s tactical rigidity hamstrings the team: trying to shoehorn Bedoya into a formation that doesn’t suit him has left both coach and player dissatisfied. Curtin looks unlikely to change formations, and Bedoya looks unlikely to produce more than the lone goal he’s scored over 18 appearances. Even worse for the man tasked with being the Union’s chief creative force is that he’s yet to register an assist. There’s also the unspoken truth that this Philadelphia freefall dovetails almost perfectly with Bedoya’s arrival. It’s probably more correlation than causation, but with patience for Curtin almost nonexistent, the fans could now start to turn their ire towards Bedoya.
Throughout all of this, Curtin has remained confident that the upswing is just around the corner. He has offered the generic coaching pablums about togetherness and belief. But there’s no denying he looks haggard and pinched. As he said after 10 April’s bitter home loss to the Timbers — when his problems seemed large, rather than insurmountable — “the only way you get out of this is to win a game.” The only question is how long Philadelphia will have to wait to feel that relief.
-- One team that doesn’t need to be lectured about turning around an anemic start is the Seattle Sounders. Last season they rode a never-say-die attitude from the cellar of the Western Conference to the MLS Cup. Some of that same mojo returned Saturday, when they rallied to score three goals in the final 16 minutes to tie New England 3-3. As for the Revs, blowing a 3-0 road lead merely compounded the organization’s woes. News came in earlier this week that yet another downtown Boston stadium plan collapsed. For the foreseeable future, it looks like the Revs faithful are stuck driving out to the suburbs.
-- Sticking with teams that play on the fringes of their cities, on Saturday The Chicago Fire traveled to New Jersey to take on the New York Red Bulls. The game was significant for the return of Dax McCarty, who came back to a place he never wanted to leave. He capped a fine individual performance with a nimble assist, but the Fire were unable to break free from the smothering Red Bull press, and ended up succumbing 2-1. Dax stayed far after the game was over though, and reportedly signed autographs for everyone who asked.
-- In another touching gesture, Sporting Kansas City dedicated a part of their stadium to Michael Yarnevich, a lifelong fan who passed away unexpectedly in 2015. Yarnevich — whose arthritis meant it was painful for him to stand in the supporters’ section for a whole game — used to lean against a nearby steel beam for support. That beam now bears his name. Sporting rose to the occasion to beat RSL 3-0 and solidify their status as a serious contender in the West. It’s notable that, since Philadelphia beat them all those days ago, Kansas City have only lost twice.
Death, taxes and injuries to Mets starters – a few of life’s certainties. Just when the furor over the Mets’ parade of injuries had seemingly reached a climax with news that Yoenis Cespedes’ strained hamstring would put him on the 10-day disabled list, Noah Syndergaard was pulled from Sunday’s game after lasting only 1 1/3 innings. In an era when arm problems frequently shelve baseball’s best young pitchers – often those that throw the hardest – this is troubling news, especially given Syndergaard’s record of past resilience.
But while the Mets appeared to have poorly managed Syndergaard’s injury, allowing him to refuse an MRI after biceps pain scratched him from last Thursday’s start, who’s to blame for the Mets’– or any other team’s – injury troubles?
Perhaps unfairly, when injuries seem to hit some teams harder than others, questions are raised about the injury prevention and management policies of the coaching and medical staffs. This isn’t limited to baseball either; in the Premier League Arsenal are often attacked for their lengthy injury list.
Emphasizing that he wasn’t speaking about any one team in particular, Dr Glenn Fleisig, one of baseball’s leading injury experts believes that coordination and communication is important. “I do see certain teams that have more or less injuries than expected, and those that do a good job of preventing and managing injuries have good communication between coaches, medical staff and analytics people.”
According to Dr Gary Green, Major League Baseball’s medical director, critics too easily draw conclusions from limited information. “People are looking at too small a sample size,” says Green, “it’s too early to draw conclusions because you need to look more long term to determine a trend.” In other words, statistical bad luck will sometimes cluster injuries in a short period of time, rather than evenly distribute them over a season or longer.
While it might be little consolation, the Mets’ are not alone in their spring misfortunes, as April is historically the month with the most injuries to MLB players. In fact, a 2010 analysis of MLB injuries found that almost 75% of injuries occurred prior to the All-Star break. Adding to that, research has been unable to correlate workload (number of games pitched, total pitches thrown, total innings pitched, innings pitched per game, and pitches thrown per game) and injuries in MLB pitchers.
Of course, injuries aren’t simply dictated by the calendar. In fact the holy grail of sports medicine is trying to determine all of the factors that lead to injury. “I’ve spent my career trying to answer that question,” says Fleisig.
Unlike acute injuries – like fractures, concussions – it’s difficult to come up with silver-bullet preventative factors for overuse problems like Tommy John injuries or shoulder strains. “When our data showed that many of the concussions in catchers was caused by collisions at home plate, changing the rules to prohibit those collisions almost entirely eliminated that as a cause of concussions,” says Green, “but preventing overuse injury can be more complex.”
Changing a single factor may not have as much impact on overuse injuries, problems that can be caused by months, even years of microtrauma. Making it more difficult to assign blame to teams is the fact that pitchers don’t come to the big leagues with fresh ligaments and tendons. By the time players make a major league roster, shoulders and elbows have already been stressed from throwing and hitting in high school, college and travel baseball.
Without an odometer to indicate past usage, players can be ticking time bombs, exploding with injury even when treated carefully by their major league teams. “When looking at ways to prevent injuries one of the biggest risk factors is previous injury and a lot of pitchers come to MLB with pre-existing problems,” says Green.
“Because of differences in mechanics, it’s difficult to compare risk between players,” says Fleisig. “What is easier is understanding an individual’s risk of injury.”
For instance, a pitcher who throws 95mph is not more likely to become injured than one that throws 85mph. Absolute velocity is only weakly associated with injury but throwing a greater number of pitches at high velocity – ie more fastballs – does appear to put a pitcher at greater risk of injury. Studies indicate that MLB pitchers who have suffered Tommy John injuries threw on average 7% more fastballs than pitchers who had no surgery.
Other than velocity and mechanics, Fleisig cites pitching through pain and fatigue as an additional risk factor for injury. “Velocity, mechanics and pitching through pain are all risk factors for elbow injuries in baseball.”
This seems to be a red flag violated by Syndergaard and the Mets when disregarding the arm pain of last week. Soreness so significant that Syndergaard told reporters that, “Once it gets cold, I couldn’t really lift my arm above my shoulder.”
Though it comes too late for this year’s Mets, according to Green, a large-scale study of MLB draftees is currently underway. With that data, sports medicine experts hope to determine what factors are associated with injury. Until then the solution for baseball’s injury problem may very well lie in the players’ pasts.
For the second time in six days, the final whistle brought Marcelo Vieira to his knees, but this time his body didn’t slump forward face first, fists beating the floor; this time his body arched back and his arms were raised to the sky, like the poster from Platoon. After the clasico late last Sunday night, Real Madrid’s left-back took responsibility for how it had ended; after their match with Valencia early on Saturday evening, he didn’t – even though this time it actually was his doing. “We all fought, we all ran,” he said, wide-eyed and wiping sweat from his head, the shouting and celebrating surrounding him at the Santiago Bernabéu yet to subside.
Ran? He had run wild. Marcelo took the blame for losing to Barcelona, sadly admitting he should have fouled Sergi Roberto just as Cristiano Ronaldo had implored, as if it that was quite so easy or quite so obvious. Now, a week on, he rescued them. With eight minutes left, former Madrid youth teamer Dani Parejo curled the perfect free-kick over a tall, leaping wall and into the top corner to put Valencia level. The game had been drifting, Zinedine Zidane admitting to “anxiety”, but Madrid had led. Now, lead gone, they risked the league doing likewise. With four games to go, three for Barcelona, Madrid would probably have to beat Granada, Sevilla, Celta and Málaga or wait even longer for a title that had already evaded them for five years.
Then, with four minutes left, the ball dropped to Marcelo on the top corner of the area. He could have just hit it or swung another cross into the box, but that’s not really his way. So, dropping his shoulder he turned inside on his left foot, past two challenges, and bent it right-footed into the far corner. 2-1. On the touchline Zidane watched it unfold without moving, just his jaw clenching, but everyone else exploded. Marcelo sprinted towards Sergio Ramos, arms flailing, screaming, out of control, part Tardelli part Tarzan, and leapt into him. Danilo raced from the bench. Lucas Vázquez zoomed along the touchline and onto the pitch. Álvaro Morata held onto him, not about to let go. Players piled in, delirious.
You’d think they had just won the title, which perhaps they had. It felt that way. This was the goal that was worth “half a league” the reports ran. And while they would have already won six or seven leagues by now if every game that was declared half a league really was half a league, they had a point. Madrid had done it again, their way. Zidane talked about the pressure as the season reached the end, about legs “trembling”, but this looked like those other times too, a familiar tale with a familiar finale: the story of the season. They didn’t really impress until they had really, really had to. Nothing makes them more productive than the last minute.
Valencia hit the post inside a minute, then Fabián Orellana had missed a wonderful chance. Madrid had taken the lead – Dani Carvajal’s cross, Ronaldo’s header – and when the chance came to make it safe in the second half, Karim Benzema hit the post and, from the same move, Madrid got a penalty from which Diego Alves did what Diego Alves does, making another penalty save and breaking another record: that’s three saves from the four he has faced from Ronaldo now; more saved in a single season than anyone, ever; and a higher total than any goalkeeper in the history of La Liga. Fewer than 50% of the penalties he’s faced here have gone in. And so it went on. It was still only 1-0 and still was on edge, yet it lacked real edginess, even when Rodrigo headed wide. But then Casemiro, already on a yellow, conceded a free kick and Parejo scored, as if it had been perfectly planned.
Not quite perfectly. Sometimes it’s tempting to conclude that for most teams the best way to get a point from the Bernabéu is to trail by a solitary goal, let the game meander into the final minutes, and then score. Just one thing: make sure you score late enough that there’s no time for them to react, because they will.
Valencia didn’t.
“I don’t know how to explain the late goals,” Zidane said, “but it’s exciting.” Madrid have scored over 20% of their goals in the last ten minutes this season, more than anyone else, and that’s not padded out by the third or fourth in a load of easy wins. Against Barcelona at the Camp Nou Ramos scored in the last minute; the following week, he did it again against Deportivo, making it 3-2 in the 92nd minute after Mariano Díaz had equalised in the 84th; against Villarreal they trailed 2-0 and came back to win 3-2, Morata scoring the winner in the 85th; Las Palmas were leading 3-1 with four minutes to go and Ronaldo scored twice; and against Sporting a fortnight ago, it was 2-2 when Isco scored in the last minute. And now this. “The Tightrope Kings,” AS’s cover called them.
Other teams do it too, of course, and it hasn’t always gone their way. Sergio Araujo scored in the 85th minute when they drew 2-2 in Las Palmas; Sevilla scored in the 85th and 90th to beat them 2- 1; Antoine Griezmann scored with five minutes left in the derby; and last week Leo Messi did that. But, still: fourteen times this season Madrid have gained points from losing or drawing positions (not including 0-0) and although not all of those have been late, this was the seventh time they’ve won a game with a goal after the 81st minute, while they have claimed two draws from losing positions in that period as well. Which might not sound like a huge amount but that’s nine times it’s happened – a quarter of a season. They’ve won 17 points from the 81st minute on – 21% of their points – going back to week two with Toni Kroos against Celta and passing through Morata, Mariano and Ramos, Morata again, Cristiano with two, Ramos again, Isco, and now Marcelo.
“Another miracle” ran the headline in El Mundo Deportivo.
“We had to show who we are; we had to reach for our soul,” Marcelo said.
His soul has always been this. Marcelo loves playing football, and that’s something often been held against him. Just not this time. He grew up playing on Botafogo beach and fútbol sala, indoor five-a-side, all speed, touch and skill, was his thing, even after his grandfather Pedro started taking him to training in his VW Beetle, before he sold it and they went by bus instead. In one post-game interview recently, Marcelo appeared with his seven-year-old son, Enzo. “I always want to play, every night before bed,” Enzo said. “I like to play up front and score lots of goals.” His dad would recognise himself in that. After he joined Real Madrid, he still played in the afternoon with mates and his cousin, a fútbol sala player. It’s supposed to be fun, after all – only this is a serious business and fun is suspicious, somehow. Don’t smile, don’t laugh, and don’t you dare enjoy this.
But here’s the thing: that’s bollocks. Defenders who attack stand accused in a way that defenders who don’t never are. The talented are held to task where the limited are let off, as if the talent itself is the problem, a solitary flaw elevated above an hour and a half of football. As if committing fouls is the most important thing a player can learn, and not passing or dribbling of scoring. Or, y’know, playing. Risks are rejected, a heinous crime, and every goal is analysed as if inspiration doesn’t exist, as if the ball cannot and should not ever go in and as if only one end of the pitch exists, as if it can all be easily broken up and compartmentalised, each area existing in a vacuum from the game itself. Yet not taking risks can be the riskiest thing of all; and sometimes, like on Saturday afternoon, it is necessary.
Marcelo left the Santiago Bernabéu wearing a T-shirt with Tony Montana on the front, played by Al Pacino, and the line from Scarface scrawled alongside: “Who Do I Trust? Me.” He once recalled that his grandfather had believed in him so much as to sell the Beetle to put his money into Marcelo’s career, but others haven’t always believed.
They do now. It is ten years ago now that he joined Real Madrid. Monchi always regretted it. With the help of an investment fund, Sevilla’s sporting director had a deal lined up to take him to the Sánchez Pizjuán but Madrid nipped in. He was raw, skinny too, but there was something there. Marcelo admitted: “I go, I go, I go and sometimes I forget to come back”, however much Gabriel Heinze and Fabio Cannavaro shouted at him – and, boy, did they shout at him. Madrid wanted to loan him to Valladolid, or sell him on with a buy-back clause, but he refused. He stayed. He played, too.
There were always some concerns, a little resistance, even at a club where Roberto Carlos had played – and if anyone had exploded the traditional view of a full-back it was him. As one coach put it, Roberto Carlos was the player who “arrives in his own area to find out what just happened”, but they had come to love him for it. There was a touch of that with Marcelo: at times, he was caught; at times, he was caught often. The space behind him became something to exploit, a clear weakness. For Madrid, it became something to worry about. Fabio Coentrao came, and not as back up. José Mourinho preferred Coentrao and so, at a key moment, did Carlo Ancelotti. Marcelo was left out of the European Cup final in Lisbon, which hurt, but he came on to help change the game. As Ancelotti’s assistant Paul Clement explained, the decision was natural: put simply, they thought Coentrao was clearly better that season.
By the following year, Clement admitted, every bit as matter-of-fact, they thought Marcelo was. Over time, people were won over, even if the doubts didn’t always go away. No one would have had Roberto Carlos any other way and although there is not the same unanimity with Marcelo, he has started be accepted as he is – quite apart from his own improvement and the fact that he was more serious about the sport than some thought. Anarchy can be a good thing on the pitch, they accept. Against Barcelona, he took the blame, a game like that reduced to a moment when he didn’t commit a foul. Six days later, he rescued his side, the game crystallised in a moment that defined him every bit as well. This is the way he is and Zidane wants him this way: “In modern football, the full backs have to make a difference,” he says.
In part, it is a choice, and all choices come with risks; there is a downside to everything, even if it only seems to be seen with offensive players. The pros though far outweigh the cons. In a team where the attackers tend to turn inside, where it can be predictable, Marcelo and Dani Carvajal do make the difference, as Zidane wants – no defenders in Spain have been involved in more goals. This season, they have been vital, a lifeline. When the B Team versus A Team debate comes up, only they are entirely without question. Their absences hurt more than most at a club that has assimilated injuries with remarkable ease and might even be better off with them.
Marcelo is different to most full-backs, even most attacking ones. While they tend to go outside and cross, he is as likely to take a diagonal line to the top corner of the area. It goes through people, not just round them. It’s less a ball in the box, more a pass in there. It’s not so much about pace and power as technique. Remember the run against Bayern? Jorge Valdano talks about him making “flowers” spring up. “He is more talented than me,” Roberto Carlos says. After the game, Carvajal revealed that team-mates ran to Marcelo, exclaiming: “how good are you?” He’d been good from left back. And left midfield. And left wing. And inside left. A full-back? No, a footballer. And amidst all that talent, there really is a case to be made to declare him Madrid’s best player this season.
It is his tenth at the club, and no one lasts this long without something. He’s still only 28, but it feels like he has been around for ever and yet it never really felt like he would be. Season after season, though, there he was. He arrived at the Bernabéu a 19-year-old. A decade on, on Saturday evening he departed having scored the late goal that took Madrid a step closer to a first title in five years and him to his 212th victory for the club – more than any other foreigner ever.
• It was a beautiful pass, delivered with the outside of the foot from near the halfway line, out on the right, wonderfully weighted, curling thirty, forty yards between the central defenders and perfectly into the path of the centre-forward, bearing down on goal. It was just a pity for José Manuel Jurado that he plays for Espanyol and the centre forward he gave it to plays for Barcelona, an inexplicably impeccable assist allowing Luis Suárez to open the scoring in a Catalan derby that had been complicated until then. Espanyol were dreaming of another Tamudazo, the fuck of the century: the chance to take the title from rivals Barcelona. Instead, they had given them the lead. And for all that it can be tense, difficult too, sometimes downright dirty, for all that there were some unpleasant chants again, it does tend to end up this way. “I like coming here,” Gerard Piqué said. Of the last 18 meetings between them in the league, Barcelona have won 15 and lost none. That assist helped add to the statistic, Quique Sánchez Flores lamenting: “That changed everything.” After a sluggish first half, Barcelona took a step up in the second, Neymar running, Messi playing, Suárez scoring. Piqué and Sergio Busquets stood out too. Ivan Rakitic rolled in a second and in the last minute the Uruguayan got the third, thanks to another blunder, celebrating with a gymnastic pose, standing on one leg. It had been announced as the “derby of the league”, both the Catalan dailies running with the same headline yet again, and while Madrid’s late win meant that it remains in their hands, victory at Cornellà-El Prat kept Barcelona top.
• “It’s a very sad day; time to cry but also time to build,” Tony Adams said. It was also a day that they knew would come. Granada are down after a 2-1 defeat at Real Sociedad. “When the owner bought the club he didn’t imagine this; he let himself be guided by the wrong people,” Adams added. He’s not wrong either.
• Sporting Gijón aren’t, not yet, but they know that they’re in trouble. They were beaten by Villarreal on Friday night and although Leganés’s defeat at Eibar means that it is not done, they trail by six points and need at least two wins from their final three games – when they have only got one in their last 12. That’s good news for Leganés, but they know that they’re not quite there yet. “We’re Leganés, we’ve only just come up; we would love to be safe with weeks to spare but we know we’re going to have to fight until the end,” said Asier Garitano.
• There was a cheer when Alavés scored their fourth goal against Betis - from the Betis fans, who have had enough. “Disastrous,” Joaquín Sánchez called it.
• Atlético were three up after eighteen minutes in the Canaries, as Las Palmas’s decomposition continues, the collapse which was always coming now complete. President and manager had long had very different opinions, players were signed in the winter window that they didn’t really need and that, as suspected, only made things worse, talks over the manager’s renewal inevitably broke down and the team soon followed. “It’s incredible to have seen this team before and to see it now,” Quique Setien said. There’s no glory in their games any more.
• Antoine Griezmann had a chance when he saw Michel Macedo down, so he kicked the ball out instead. Las Palmas’s fans applauded him and everyone said what a nice thing it was to do. Which it was. But may it never happen again. Much better to celebrate the referee who booked Alen Halilovic and Jesé for two pretty pathetic dives in the penalty area.
• And yes, El Mundo Deportivo really did complain that, in their live feed of the game at the Bernabéu, the league put five more “o’s” in the word “Gol” after Madrid scored than they had when Valencia scored. And, yes, Super Deporte really did pick up on the story, describing it as “shameful”.
• Welcome back, Levante!
Results: Villarreal 3-1 Sporting, Real Sociedad 2-1 Granada, Real Madrid 2-1 Valencia, Las Palmas 5-1 Atlético, Espanyol 0-3 Barcelona, Osasuna 2-2 Deportivo, Betis 1-4 Alavés, Eibar 2-0 Leganés, Celta 0-3 Athletic Tonight: Málaga-Sevilla
It has been a long couple of weeks for Bayern Munich. Little wonder, then, that Thiago Alcântara’s first words as the players made it back to the dressing room after celebrating with a fifth successive Bundesliga crown with their travelling fans at Wolfsburg were, according to Süddeutsche Zeitung, a throaty cry of “donde está el alcohol?”
Long after the season is done, Bayern will pick over the season’s two most costly defeats, each of which defy comprehension for very different reasons – against Real Madrid, in the Champions League and last week, against Borussia Dortmund in the DfB Pokal semi-final. In that context, no specific celebration was planned for Lower Saxony on Saturday, where Bayern knew the title would be theirs if they won in the late game – providing RB Leipzig failed to beat Ingolstadt earlier, and that match had finished goalless.
Carlo Ancelotti’s team grabbed the opportunity to put a seal on it with both hands, taking their recent frustrations out on the strugglers by pulverising them 6-0. Wolfsburg actually got off lightly, with their goalkeeper Koen Casteels keeping it in single figures. Given the nightmare eight-day stretch of cup exits, there might have been a feeling that the inevitable clinching of the title would be anticlimactic, but this was nothing of the sort.
It was spontaneous and fun, and all the better for it. It spread to the boardroom, too. By the time it was at 4-0, Rummenigge was merrily enjoying a pint in his seat alongside Jan-Christian Dreesen, the club’s executive vice-chairman. At the whistle, the soon-to-be-gone Philipp Lahm was MC, handed the loudhailer by the fans, led the traditional rendition of the Humba Täterä and once on their charter flight back from nearby Braunschweig, the squad improvised a party with beers and takeout pizza – a party that lasted some time.
Rafinha, who chronicled much of it on his Instagram feed, made his last post at 7am on Sunday, shirtless, bleary-eyed and at home with the trophy. “If there’s something to celebrate,” Lahm had said after the match, “then you should do it. [Winning] the championship isn’t easy.”
It seemed as if the emotion that came with the victory surprised Bayern. It was sealed at full-time with a long, lingering and very symbolic hug on the pitch between Ancelotti and Rummenigge. The message was as clear in the gesture as it had been from Rummenigge’s pronouncements in the days following the semi-final defeat against Dortmund. Ancelotti is here to stay.
The future, it turned out, is already here. A heavy cold prevented Xabi Alonso from being involved, and with Arturo Vidal and Franck Ribéry on the bench, Joshua Kimmich and Kingsley Coman – who completed a permanent move from Juventus this week – came in, along with Thomas Müller. The latter gave one of his best performances of the season, while significantly Kimmich and Coman were instrumental in a superlative display.
Besides Kimmich’s emphatic final goal and Coman’s assist for the Robert Lewandowski score that pretty much finished the game in the first half, they connected superbly, never more so than the second-half moment when Kimmich’s raking 40-yard pass found a sprinting Coman on the left, who shot just wide. Bayern have not always felt that direct this season. Kimmich may have ducked the question when asked by ZDF post-match if he (and Coman) had found it hard to get into the XI this campaign, but Ancelotti had clearly anticipated the thread. “Next year,” he told the broadcaster in his interview, “they’re going to play more than they did this year.”
The future for Wolfsburg is filled with trepidation. There was communion with their fans, too, but of a very different mood. The midfielder Max Arnold had tears in his eyes as the home players approached the stands, and it was clear that this hurt him more than most; a youth product who became one of Europe’s brightest youngsters as his team flourished, and a scorer in a Champions League win against Real Madrid in this same stadium just over 12 months ago. Now, they are only out of the relegation play-off spot thanks to a better goal difference than Hamburg.
Even allowing for Bayern’s excellence, much more of this could make that defining factor – Wolfsburg are minus 19, compared to Hamburg’s minus 29 – shrink to the point of discomfort. The coveted Ricardo Rodríguez had a nightmare at centre-back and it was, in the words of Wolfsburg’s former Bayern striker Mario Gómez, “men against boys”.
It was all too much for his fellow Bayern alumnus Luiz Gustavo, whose initial clapping of the referee Felix Swayer after he was given a red card turned into a full-on rage meltdown. It was serious enough that David Alaba stepped in when it became clear that Gustavo’s own team-mate Daniel Didavi was fighting a losing battle to restrain him. The coach Andries Jonker, in the end, came on to walk him the last few steps off the pitch, with the Brazilian still sarcastically clapping the assistant referee. It would be a surprise to see Gustavo play again this season and the way things are going, we might not see him in the Wolves’ green again at all.
Insult was duly added to injury, as from the subsequent free-kick Müller eventually scored the fifth goal. Bayern showed here that setbacks can present opportunities, but on this evidence it is hard to see Die Wölfe having either the eyes, or the stomach, to take heed.
• Leipzig’s coach Ralph Hasenhüttl did not enjoy his afternoon against his former employers Ingolstadt much. The visitors had one chance, via Sonny Kittel, and that was it in a rough, scrappy game of 29 fouls, eight yellow cards and one red in which “we only had 25 minutes of net playing time in the first half”, as Hasenhüttl put it. No matter – avoiding defeat at Hertha Berlin next week will mean Leipzig automatically qualify for the Champions League given the direct confrontation between the third-placed Hoffenheim and the fourth-placed Dortmund (see below).
• Benjamin Hübner’s late headed winner for Hoffenheim was one of the few highlights of a drab game against Eintracht Frankfurt, but Julian Nagelsmann and company will not care. They are now guaranteed to finish in the top four, and are set for what Bild is calling a “Champions-League-Finale” at Borussia Dortmund next Saturday afternoon, knowing that just a draw would be good enough to keep them above Thomas Tuchel’s men in third place with two games to go – a situation created by the latter’s inability to break down Köln this weekend. It might seem like a case of no Dembélé, no party after 19-year-old Ousmane was left on the bench to recuperate after his Pokal semi-final winner against Bayern, but Dortmund had enough chances to have won two games, and Timo Horn was excellent in the visitors’ goal. Finally, there was a huge reception for the returning Neven Subotic from Die Gelbe Wand.
• More trouble for Hamburg, who were abject in a 4-0 defeat at relegation rivals Augsburg. Halil Altintop’s first-half brace put Manuel Baum’s team on their way, and his furious opposite number Markus Gisdol sent his players back out for the second half early, with a good five minutes of the interval left to go. Der Dino face a huge match against Mainz, above them only on goal difference after an unfortunate defeat against Borussia Mönchengladbach, next Sunday.
• Also angry were hundreds of Leverkusen fans, who stayed behind to protest outside the players’ entrance after they slumped to a 4-1 defeat at home against Schalke on Friday night. The veteran striker Stefan Kiessling, who scored the (scant) consolation goal for Die Werkself, went out with a loudhailer to address the gathered supporters in an attempt to pacify them, flanked by a group of his team-mates. A shell-shocked sporting director Rudi Völler reiterated his and the club’s “definitive” decision to keep the struggling Tayfun Korkut in his post after the match but they are just three points ahead of the play-off spot, remarkably, and will be in deep if they lose at Ingolstadt on Saturday.
• It was all smiles at Darmstadt where, remarkably, Torsten Frings’s team still are not mathematically down after beating the Euro chasers Freiburg 3-0, a third successive victory. Sven Schipplock’s well-taken first goal of the season and Hamit Altintop’s excellent clearance off the line were just two of the moments that underlined their dogged attitude.
• Finally, Max Kruse did the right thing and made this column look honest after last week with another great performance. Kruse made one and scored one as Werder Bremen nailed a ninth win in 11 games against Hertha Berlin, moving them into sixth and a Europa League place. They might struggle to stay there – Alexander Nouri’s side face Hoffenheim and Dortmund in their last two games – but their confidence is tip-top, and they even had a visit from legendary former coach Thomas Schaaf, another reminder of the glory days, at the game.
Results: Hoffenheim 1-0 Frankfurt, Augsburg 4-0 Hamburg, Wolfsburg 0-6 Bayern Munich, Darmstadt 3-0 Freiburg, Dortmund 0-0 Cologne, Mainz 1-2 Borussia Mönchengladbach, Leipzig 0-0 Ingolstadt, Werder Bremen 2-0 Hertha Berlin, Leverkusen 1-4 Schalke.
The bookmakers hadn’t quite the nerve to price up Utility as the overnight favourite for Kempton’s getting-out-stakes on Monday afternoon but they couldn’t help themselves making this six-year-old, a son of Yeats, the second favourite in most lists.
Jonjo O’Neill’s runner is exasperating yet fascinating. WB Yeats wrote his own epitaph: “Cast a cold eye/on life, on death/Horseman, pass by”. What exactly the great man meant by that is subject to debate, but perhaps the last bit could be interpreted as advice regarding Utility.
Some observers will be watching with interest for market moves on this horse who carries the colours of Coolmore’s Magnier/D Smith/M Tabor (which adds to the mystique). Utility did win “very readily” in a National Hunt Flat contest on his racecourse debut 18 months ago (evens favourite). Three runs later he won “readily” again, a novice hurdle at Chepstow (11-4 second favourite).
Since then he has run twice: massively backed into 5-4 favourite at Sandown in December but finishing eighth of 12 runners, and then last time at Ludlow – backed into 4-1 favourite from 7-1 – and finishing 13th of 16. These are the kind of favourites that transport layers to sunnier places.
Utility seems as financially useful to most punters as a gas or electricity bill. Should he be given the cold eye today? Well, you never can tell – and that is a certainty.
Bob’s Boy (5.45) looks a less risky investment in the same race, however. Thomas Greatrex has the mount for his father Warren in this amateur riders’ contest. The four-year-old runs in his first handicap and Kempton should suit Bob’s Boy – he has Flat winning form on a sharp track. But rain-softened ground could hinder his prospects.
Ballymountain Boy (4.05) is another to back on the same card. He was fourth over course and distance in a race that has subsequently proved to be a useful form pointer.
A far more speculative selection is Vocaliser (2.40) at Warwick. He was available at 20-1 and 25-1 overnight, and his latest run justifies him being the field’s rank outsider. This afternoon is his first try at fences, but the hope is that Robin Dickin can get his charge to rediscover the form of a fine Sandown third in December. He probably needs decent going, however. Mango Cap is the danger.
Bath 2.15 Cee Jay 2.50 Sfumato 3.25 Secretfact 4.00 Ghepardo 4.35 Sellingallthetime 5.10 The Quarterjack 5.40 I’Vgotthepower
Beverley 1.55 Noble Manners 2.30 Thrifty 3.05 Stringybark Creek 3.40 Faintly 4.15 Theos Lolly 4.50 Jacbequick 5.25 Mistress Quickly 5.55 Tagur
Kempton 1.45 New Agenda 2.20 Forever Field 2.55 Criq Rock 3.30 Al Alfa 4.05 Ballymountain Boy (nap) 4.40 Minella Rebellion 5.15 Artifice Sivola 5.45 Bob’s Boy
Warwick 1.30 Bedrock 2.05 Pique Rock 2.40 Vocaliser (nb) 3.15 Psychocandy 3.50 Midtech Valentine 4.25 Minella Style 5.00 Blackfire
Windsor 2.00 Dynamic Girl 2.35 Goring 3.10 Cool Team 3.45 Highland Colori 4.20 Cape Banjo 4.55 Sternrubin 5.30 Team Meeting
Valtteri Bottas is targeting the Formula One world championship after securing his first win at the Russian Grand Prix on Sunday. The Finn held off a determined push from Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel to take victory, with his Mercedes team‑mate Lewis Hamilton finishing fourth.
Bottas’s win at Sochi came in his 81st start and ensured the 27-year-old is very much in the championship fight. Vettel, on 86 points, leads Hamilton by 13 but Bottas is only 10 behind his team-mate on 63. While discussion before Russia centered on whether team orders would be imposed to favour Hamilton, the win has only strengthened Bottas’s resolve to pursue the title.
He was congratulated by Hamilton, Vettel and the German’s Ferrari team‑mate Kimi Raikkonen after the victory but, while relations between the Mercedes drivers are still friendly, he does not envision any quarter being given while racing. “It’s going to be a long year, with a lot of fighting,” he said. “At some point it might get a bit more tricky and tight. If and when it comes to the championship fight, there might be less talking and more fighting on track.”
Bottas had a mixed start to the season, having been recruited by Mercedes from Williams in January to replace the world champion, Nico Rosberg, who retired after winning the title last year. The Finn was third in Australia, sixth in China and third in Bahrain in the opening three meetings. A spin behind the safety car in Shanghai raised questions about his ability to step up and, after a tyre pressure issue in Bahrain, he was given instructions to let Hamilton past, prompting the team orders debate. However, he did claim pole at Sakhir and followed it by comprehensively out-qualifying Hamilton in Russia. The subsequent win gives him further impetus to achieve more, he believes.
“If you don’t think you can win, you should stay at home,” he said. “But to get confirmation, to get that first result, that matters. The races you win and the times you are on the podium is the name of the game. Getting that first win gives you a lot of confidence that you can do it, even though I always knew I had the ability. Now I just want to do it again. It’s not going to be that simple this year, it’s going to be a massive fight.”
Hamilton had an uncharacteristically poor weekend, unable to find the right setup for his car at the Sochi Autodrom. He struggled to bring the tyres into their temperature operating window in practice, could not find the balance in qualifying and suffered from engine overheating in the race. The high temperatures were causing one of his cylinders to cut out and he believed he was losing at least 0.7 seconds a lap.
The three-times world champion, who endured mechanical failures last year when he lost the title to Rosberg, did not believe his Sochi result was caused by any fundamental problem with the car. “This weekend was not [about] reliability. It was pure pace on the car – the tyres, tyre temperatures, being comfortable in the car. There is no reason for me to have any worry of reliability because we have the strongest reliability so far.”
His problems were exacerbated by Bottas, who had tuned his car to perfection over the weekend . The team’s executive director, Toto Wolff, has already confirmed Mercedes will investigate what was causing Hamilton’s difficulties. The British driver said: “I can’t explain it right now but I will do some work over this week to fully understand it. I have some theories about how it felt in the race and qualifying, some ideas, but lots of work will be done to figure it out.”
The relationship between Rosberg and Hamilton became increasingly fractious last season and Mercedes have admitted it was detrimental to the team. However, despite the bullish talk from Bottas, Wolff remains confident the two drivers, whom he has described before as having no baggage with one another, will remain friendly. “The relationship between the two is very intact,” he said.
“Lewis was one of the first to congratulate Valtteri. Nevertheless they are fierce competitors and want to win races and fight for the championship. But I don’t think it will affect the relationship and dynamics between the team like it did over the last few years between Nico and Lewis. That was a completely different relationship.”
“It was a great match, one that completes our season. Once more, this isn’t down to luck, we know this. We know our level and the progress we’ve made. It is greatly satisfying for the players and the fans.” OGC Nice’s president, Jean-Pierre Rivère was understandably proud of his team after a 3-1 home win over Paris Saint-Germain. Sublime goals from Mario Balotelli and Ricardo Pereira caught the eye and young goalkeeper Yoan Cardinale was superb, but Nice are focused on the bigger picture.
A combination of Monaco all but being assured of the Ligue 1 title and a near-complete meltdown by Paris Saint-Germain at the end of the match may overshadow the result, but make no mistake, Nice’s victory over the defending champions should be read as a valedictory statement for the hosts and the progress they have made under Rivère. Nice are still all but out of the title race themselves and some will view their tumble down the table in 2017 as a weakening of their early resolve, but they are now unbeaten in 12 matches, something that would have seemed highly unlikely three months ago.
Indeed, the last time the casual observer of French football heard from Nice was probably their 3-0 loss at Monaco in early February. Already out of Europe and both domestic cups at that point, the defeat completed a run of only one win in five in the league that took them from first to third. What had looked a charming story at the beginning of the season now looked to be slipping away, as the team struggled with a lack of depth against their well-heeled rivals. Most observers thought Nice had more to worry about from Lyon, in fourth, who had a game in hand and had just signed Memphis Depay.
After that defeat to Monaco, Nice lifted themselves off the canvas with an impressive 1-0 win over Saint-Étienne. There has been the odd draw in this unbeaten stretch, including away to Toulouse last Sunday, but the team’s response in the face of adversity has been hugely impressive. They have endured season-ending injuries to midfield tyro Wylan Cyprien and then-leading scorer Alassane Pléa, as well as lengthy fitness problems concerning captain Paul Baysse, Ricardo Pereira, Valentin Eysseric, Younès Belhanda and Mario Balotelli. Add in Jean-Michaël Seri’s stint at the Africa Cup of Nations and young centre-back Malang Sarr’s dramatic loss of form, and Nice’s form seems a minor miracle.
Much of the credit has to go to Lucien Favre, who has used an ingenious variety of tactics to manage these absences. The team started the season playing a 4-3-3 before moving to three at the back. More recently, in the absence of Cyprien, they have moved to a 4-2-3-1. Pereira, brought in as a right-back, has been used as an orthodox winger, which has allowed Seri to push further forwards. A defensive midfielder upon his arrival, the Ivorian has been a revelation this season in a more attacking role, with 10 assists and six goals.
Favre has also given expanded roles to a few players who were something of an afterthought in the season’s early going. Along with Dante and Belhanda, Mario Balotelli was the big-name arrival in the summer. There was also some intrigue over the promising Cyprien and Arnaud Lusamba, but Arnaud Souquet was something of an afterthought. A former youth international for France, he was a product of Lille’s academy who just two years ago found himself playing for amateur side Poiré-sur-Vie. Success there saw him earn a move to Dijon, then playing in Ligue 2, and he was a key part of that team’s promotion last season.
Still, though, he was hardly expected to play more than a handful of matches this season, as Pereira was unquestionably first choice. When Pereira was forced to miss more than a month with a knee injury in January, Souquet, who had only played a handful of matches, stepped up. He has played every minute in Ligue 1 since being deployed as a makeshift centre-back for the team’s trip to the Parc des Princes. Now played as a right-back, he is an impressive attacking threat, having contributed five assists this season.
Another former Ligue 2 player, Maxime Le Marchand has also been important for Nice since signing from Le Havre in 2015. Like Souquet, he seemed destined for bigger things at a young age, having won the Coupe Gambardella, France’s youth cup competition, in a Rennes team that included Yacine Brahimi and Yann M’Vila. However, after failing to break into the first team, he was forced to move down a level. Initially a left-back, Le Marchand impressed at centre-back this campaign before suffering a recent hamstring injury that has ended his season, becoming an invaluable deputy for Baysse during the captain’s recent spell on the sidelines.
Eysseric also falls into this category, contributing six assists and three goals in 2017 after starting just eight times in the first half of the season, but the pattern that should be apparent now is one of an exceptional recruiting apparatus. Admittedly, Chinese backing was key in Nice being able to pay the wages of Balotelli, Dante and Belhanda, but the real secret to the team’s success lies with their scouting department. Nice did splash €5m on Cyprien this summer (a figure that seems a pittance after his season), but the combined cost of Seri, Le Marchand, Pléa, Souquet, Baysse and Dalbert was less than €6m.
One could argue that even those paltry fees are beyond the means of most of Ligue 1 clubs, but Nice have also sold important players in the recent past, bringing in handsome returns for Jordan Amavi and Nampalys Mendy. In this way, Nice, through their scouting department, headed by Serge Recordier, have not only seen success but built with an eye towards sustainability. Since Rivère joined in 2011, the club have placed their focus on the academy, building a new training centre and allowing themselves to sustain success even in the face of significant departures.
As Cardinale told RTL recently: “Last summer, there was a lot of uncertainty in the dressing room after the departure of our two top scorers, [Hatem Ben Arfa and Valère Germain] our captain [Nampalys Mendy] and the coach. In the end, though, everything worked out great. We’ve accomplished something historic and we’re not setting limits.”
Yesterday’s win is a bold affirmation of the club’s over-arching strategy. As Nice prepare for what looks set to be a place in the Champions League play-off rounds, there will be tough decisions to make on Balotelli (out of contract), Belhanda (an option to buy is reported to be in the region of €9m) and Pereira, whose loan is set to expire. There are also questions surrounding the ability of Cyprien and Pléa to recover from serious injuries, but the more one considers Nice’s situation, though, the more likely that the combination of Favre, Fournier and Recordier looks set to keep success within reach.
• The consistent stream of new thrilling young players is perhaps the most exciting aspect of French football. Kylian Mbappé’s compelling development over the last six months has been astonishing, but the form of one player who never truly lived up to his hype at a similar age has been just as brilliant as the teenage Monaco forward’s displays this campaign. Florian Thauvin’s swaggering hat-trick in Marseille’s 5-1 demolition of relegation threatened Caen was perhaps the high-point of a stunning season. Despite Thauvin’s arrogant, lazy reputation in England, his intensity, attitude and work-rate have been exemplary for Rudi Garcia’s side throughout the campaign. So much so that he won a call up from Didier Deschamps in March and beat Mbappé to the Ligue 1 Player of the Month award. The 24-year-old admitted recently that he had questioned himself after his trying spell with Newcastle, but his confidence has returned with him to France to stirring effect. 15 goals scored places him 5th in Ligue 1’s scoring charts and with coupled with his seven assists, Thauvin’s importance to Marseille is clear, regularly outshining Dimitri Payet since his return from West Ham. But crucially for Thauvin it is his renewed faith in his undoubted ability that shines through in each of his performances. The nonchalance and effortless grace with which he took all three of his superb strikes at Sunday lunchtime and his unerring pace and intensity whenever he was in possession will have Garcia delighted that Marseille were forced into activating the player’s €11m purchase option owing to a “games played” clause in the loan agreement with Newcastle.
• When Monaco centre-back Jemerson scuffed a clearance into the path of Toulouse’s Ola Toivonen early in the second half at the Stade Louis II on Saturday afternoon, allowing the Swede to slot home for 1-0, the title race seemed to be shifting in PSG’s direction. The first half was, by Monaco’s standards, stilted and blunt and, despite Jardim’s decision to sacrifice the Coupe de France (resting his entire team for the mid-week semi-final at PSG, which a B team string lost 5-0), Monaco looked tired. “A response of Champions” may be clichéd description of their comeback, but it began to feel like Monaco are now close to unstoppable on the domestic front when Kamil Glik slammed home a header to equalise seconds later. The effervescent Kylian Mbappé arrowed home to take the lead 15 minutes after, 22 goals in 20 starts for the teenager as his unbelievable form continues, while Thomas Lemar made sure Monaco managed their now customary three goals per Ligue 1 match and stayed three points clear of PSG. But perhaps it was in the 5-0 thumping Monaco received from PSG where Jardim made his most astute move of the week. Monaco have looked a little weary at time in recent months. Their comparatively small squad, busy schedule and all action style has begun to catch up with them. In contrast, since their humiliation in Barcelona, PSG have returned to their swaggering best in Ligue 1 and dispensed with an admittedly Fabinho-less Monaco in the League Cup final, 4-1. As a result, even if Jardim picked his strongest XI for the Coupe de France semi-final in the week, PSG would have been favourites at the Parc des Princes, where they are very strong. By sacrificing the Coupe de France, Jardim gave his first team a much needed rest and simultaneously covertly sidestepped a potentially confidence, momentum and energy draining defeat to their rivals; perhaps a key psychological move that could aid in what now looks like a title win for Les Monegasques.
• End of season awards and shortlists are by definition a subjective business but as the French professional footballers body, the UNFP, released their various lists for their accolades this week, questions were raised. The UNFP have long be criticised for supposed big club bias, but the number of PSG nominations this year was surprising even by their standards. The perennial champions were represented on all four four-man shortlists, a more than curious situation after their comparatively poor season and fluctuating form. Edinson Cavani, as the league’s top scorer, justifiably joins Bernando Silva and Alexandre Lacazette in contention for Player of the Year. However, the absence of Monaco’s sublime midfield general Fabinho in favour of Marco Verratti is verging on ridiculous. Fabinho is Monaco’s most important player and the difference in performances with him and without him both domestically and in Europe is stark. His power, drive and pace help him and partner Tiemoué Bakayoko to dominate midfield battles despite often being outnumbered while his range of passing, vision and creativity drive the side forward. Without him they would not be top of Ligue 1 and his omission is a baffling oversight. Verratti has been very good since Christmas and when on form is genuinely one of the best players on the planet, but when put next to Fabinho this season, there is only one winner. Jardim and Nice’s Lucien Favre are obvious inclusions on the managerial list while Jocelyn Gourvannec’s deft nurturing of a young Bordeaux side into the top 5 also earns him a deserved place alongside them.
Yet Unai Emery’s appearance on the shortlist verged on the incomprehensible before his side’s ill-disciplined, chaotic loss in Nice on Sunday evening, and now looks laughable. This season has been one of regression for PSG. Yes, they could still retain their treble and yes, this is a domestic award, so their humiliation in Barcelona theoretically should not affect the decision making. However, PSG for long spells have been brittle, lethargic and complacent and although their best form has seen them play at their swaggering best this has largely come at home against much weaker sides, the chasm in available resources and personnel to rival clubs and the 31-point margin of victory last season under Blanc are huge caveats any of the league’s now second best side’s return to form. More to the point, Emery has had very little discernible influence on displays, doing little more than making Laurent Blanc look good. This is not to eviscerate Emery, Monaco in their current form is something precious coaches did not have to deal with (although Lyon’s title push in 2014/15 is not too dissimilar) and his CV is still a superb one, winning three consecutive Europa League title’s with Sevilla but his credentials for being on this 2016/17 Ligue 1 shortlist are thin at best. Nantes’ Sergio Conceição, Toulouse’s Pascal Dupraz and even Lorient’s Bernard Casoni all deserve far greater praise for the evolution of their teams this season, all unable to bring the likes of Lucas Moura, Blaise Matuidi and Javier Pastore off of their benches.
Angers 1-2 Lyon, Monaco 3-1 Toulouse, Bastia 1-0 Rennes, Guingamp 0-2 St Étienne, Metz 2-1 Nancy, Montpellier 0-3 Lille, Nantes 1-0 Lorient, Caen 1-5 Marseille, Dijon 0-0 Bordeaux, Nice 3-1 Paris Saint-Germain
• This is an article from Get French Football News• Follow Eric Devin, Adam White and Get French Football News on Twitter
“I came out thinking bad thoughts,” Keaton Jennings says as he remembers the difficult background to a decision which, seven months later, reveals much about his character as a 24‑year‑old Test cricketer. “I’d just walked out of a three-hour auditing exam, thinking I had failed. I flicked my phone on and there were so many missed calls and 180 messages. I’m like: ‘Whoa, hang on.’ I flipped through everything and saw what had happened. We had been relegated and docked 48 points.”
“We” means Durham, the county which has done so much to help Jennings’s career since he first arrived at the Riverside in 2011 as an academy player and, then, the captain of South Africa’s Under-19 team. Last season, with Jennings voted the Cricket Writers’ Player of the Year after he scored more runs than any other batsman in England, Durham had finished fourth in Division One. In early October, just as Jennings was sitting his latest exam in pursuit of a bachelor of commerce degree, the shocking news was confirmed. Durham had been punished for needing a £3.8m bailout from the England and Wales Cricket Board.
Qualifying through residency and with his mum having been born in Sunderland, Jennings was on the brink of being selected for the England Lions. Of course he had no idea that, soon afterwards, he would be called into the Test squad as a replacement and score an assured century on his England debut against India in Mumbai.
Reeling from the crushing fate suffered by his county, some cricketers might have called their agents and said “What do I do?” or “Get me out of here”. Jennings, however, does not have an agent. He represents himself with some help from his father, Ray, the former wicketkeeper and ex-national coach of South Africa.
This unusual approach also carries hard-edged pragmatism. When he negotiated his contact with Durham, Jennings had insisted on a clause allowing him to leave the county if they were relegated but he chose to remain loyal. “It was a tough time for Durham. But tough people stand up when tough times are around. There are a lot of tough people at this club like Colly [Paul Collingwood] and it felt right to stand with them. And when Sir Ian Botham came on board [as chairman] it was easier. Somebody with his knowledge and aura has so much to offer. He chatted to me and my dad and that settled us. We’re going to give it a good crack this year. The vibe is actually brilliant with a young and fresh group.”
Durham sweetened Jennings’s decision by making him captain of their 50-over team, while Collingwood remains in charge of the county side. “Colly’s an incredible human being. So, with him leading us, the team are 100% upbeat. If we hadn’t got the 48-point penalty maybe we could have bounced straight back up but those are the cards we were dealt.”
Jennings played a different hand in choosing to commit himself to England. It is a decision which, guided by his father, a proud South African, is again steeped in pragmatism. England offers Jennings greater stability and more opportunity to carve out a significant Test career. Some will accuse him of being mercenary but Jennings is a fine batsman, with a strong mentality, and there already is speculation he could become an England captain. It seems significant he was asked to lead the Lions on their recent tour of Sri Lanka.
This season, he has continued his impressive run-making with his past five scores being 102no, 87, 30no, 79 and 139 – with the latest hundred being scored on Monday in a 50-over match against Warwickshire. He is likely to retain his place in the Test side against South Africa this summer – when debate around his nationality will intensify.
“I expected the negativity,” Jennings says when recalling the response to his first Test century. “But I didn’t expect the quantity or some of the criticism to go so far. Lots of people got involved in social media – including really big names – and it caused a massive ripple effect. People were arguing for and against me. Some articles had nasty words, some articles had really nice words. The majority were nice but it’s hard not to think of the nasty 20%. At the same time, social media has given people a voice to reach those they admire or hate. You’ve got to take the good with the bad and I know I made the right decision.”
How will South Africa’s players react? “It’s probably divided in terms of being understanding or being unhappy with me. It doesn’t really bother me what they think to be totally honest. I’m sure they’re not going to be too friendly on the field, which is the way it should be.”
Jennings confirms his close links with many of the South Africans. He even opened the batting for years with Quinton de Kock at school in Johannesburg. “Quinton’s an interesting character, and a really nice bloke. He’s also seriously talented. I remember him making a deal with our head of sport. If he got a hundred the hostel master would give him a free weekend so he could leave on a Friday afternoon. There weren’t too many matches he didn’t get hundreds.
“I played with Vernon Philander. I obviously played with Cooky [Stephen Cook, with whom Jennings opened the batting at Gauteng and now at Durham]. Cooky’s family have done a lot for me. Morne Morkel grew up playing for my dad so I was lucky to be a little sprog running around with drinks for Morne and [his brother] Albie, who put us in touch with Durham. Albie was the link to me moving here.”
His face lights up when he returns to memories of Mumbai and his Test hundred soon after arriving in India. “All the emotions poured out of me – pride, happiness, relief and ‘You’ve done it!’ I had reached a point every kid dreams of. It was sensational.”
Jennings’s choice of shot also says much about him – because, where he was once a cautious batsman, he reached his century with a reverse sweep. “I play it well and last season I scored lots of runs doing it. A few days before the Test we’d practised on the square and I’d nailed it nine times out of 10. But a camera caught me top-edging one and it hit me in the face. A tweet went out of that shot and people said: ‘What’s he doing playing that shot?’ That’s where doubt gets created from opinions but it’s still one of my best shots.
“Just before I got the hundred I played and missed. I thought: ‘I can’t get caught at slip on 96. I’d rather go out playing a reverse sweep because I’d backed myself. So when the chance came it felt like a now or never moment. I went for it and thankfully it hit the middle of the bat.”
Jennings beams before becoming more reflective. “One of the biggest things that came from it was the unconditional love from my family. My dad never got the chance to play Test cricket [because of the sports boycott during apartheid]. My brother Dylan was a first-class cricketer and also never got the chance. The love and support they gave me – when they could have been very selfish or bitter – was special. It gives me goosebumps even now.
“My dad could have come to India – where he is loved [because he coached in the IPL] – but he didn’t want to distract me. That was incredibly selfless. I didn’t realise the impact my father had in India but on my first night with England we went to a dinner where there were sponsors and big [Indian] stars. For two hours I got grilled on my dad. ‘What’s his favourite food? What time does he get up? What does he do in the gym?’ I realised then the impact he’d had in India and his decision not to come was to take the heat off me.
“So my parents were in Mauritius watching on TV. I was on 96 and their TV went blank. My dad was pacing up and down outside. Next thing a text came through with clapping hands. Then he knew. When the power came back I was on 110 – but got out three balls later.”
Jennings laughs – as he does at a reminder that he lasted one ball in the second innings. “I walked off and said: ‘Mother Cricket, you have a sick sense of humour.’ A family friend sent me a text: ‘A few people have got 100 and nought on debut. But you’re the only guy that’s got 100 and a first-baller. Well done.’ That made me laugh.”
In his only other Test, in Chennai, Jennings scored one and a more reassuring 54. He works closely with his uncle, Ken, a sports psychologist and sounds impressively philosophical. “One of Ken’s biggest things is you keep your lows high and your highs low. If you get 100, have a beer or a run and go to bed. Do the exact same thing if you get naught. That’s really helped me.
“I also remember a conversation with my dad. He said: ‘If you’re going to play cricket worrying about getting out or being dropped you might as well give up. Go do something you actually enjoy.’ I realised then: ‘Let me just enjoy it. If I’m going to defend, let me defend. If I’m going to drive, let me drive. Just commit to my choices.’ I’ve done that and everything has clicked.”
Jennings admires Kumar Sangakkara, one of the more intelligent men in world cricket, and he takes every chance he can to talk to the magisterial Sri Lankan. “I remember having a chat with Kumar in Sussex. He told me: ‘You’re allowed to get out and make a mistake.’ It’s obviously very simple but it was powerful from Kumar. I was lucky enough to have lunch with him in Sri Lanka. We went to his restaurant, Ministry of Crab, and I loved the fact he has this and so many other interests. Sanga has played for 20 years and got millions of 100s. But he’s such an interesting bloke. He’s a serious human being.”
Sangakkara has also given Jennings the confidence to be open about his ambitions. His overriding goal is to score a huge amount of Test runs but he does not flinch when asked about a possible future role as England captain. “I’ve always enjoyed captaincy but Rooty [Joe Root] is the right person and he could do it for the next 10 years. I’d love to play under him but if the opportunity came down the line I wouldn’t say no. It all depends on performance. To lead any side is a privilege. I’ve got the captaincy at Durham for the next couple of weeks [of 50-overs cricket] which is exciting.”
Jennings looks across a deserted Riverside and the anguish of relegation and a 48-point penalty seems forgotten. “My dad texted this morning. He said: ‘Are you satisfied yet?’ There was also another saying, ‘How hungry are you?’ He’s always pushing to make sure you’re not satisfied and you’re hungry for more and more. And that’s how I am. I always want to get better.”
Pescara’s Ghanaian midfielder Sulley Muntari abandoned the pitch on Sunday, saying he had been booked for complaining about racist chanting from the crowd during his team’s 1-0 defeat at Cagliari in Serie A.
Muntari was shown the yellow card for dissent by referee Daniele Minelli in the 90th minute and walked off the pitch in protest during stoppage time, leaving his team to play the last few minutes with 10 men.
The 32-year-old told television reporters that a group of fans had been insulting him from the start of the match, including a group of children. He said he offered the children his shirt to set an example but the insults continued in the second half.
“There was a little kid doing it with his parents standing nearby,” said Muntari, who played for Portsmouth and also spent a season on loan at Sunderland. “So I went over to him and told him not to do it. I gave him my shirt, to teach him that you’re not supposed to do things like that. I needed to set an example so he grows up to be nice.
“[The referee] told me I should not talk to the crowd. I asked him if had heard the insults. I insisted that he must have the courage to stop the game,” Muntari added. “The referee should not just stay on the field and blow the whistle, he must do everything. He should be aware of these things and set an example. I am not a victim. But if you stop the matches I am convinced that these things won’t happen any more.”
Italy has struggled to stop racist chanting in its stadiums and there have been a number of incidents over the years.
In one of the most serious in 2013, the Milan team abandoned the pitch during a friendly in the town of Busto Arsizio after home fans insulted midfielder Kevin-Prince Boateng.
Under guidelines introduced following that incident, the referee is supposed to alert the fourth official who should in turn report the incident to the public security department responsible for policing at games.
The Pescara coach, Zdenek Zeman, said he sympathised with Muntari but said the player should not have walked off.
“Muntari has abandoned the pitch because of racist chants but we should not take justice into our own hands,” he said. “We have been talking about racism for years now but nothing happens. Today, this has happened to Muntari who has been playing in Italy for several years now. We need a change of mentality.”
What was Francesco Totti thinking as he walked off the pitch at the Stadio Olimpico on Sunday, hand stroking at his stubble? Was he saying goodbye, in his own head, to the fixture that has meant the most to him? Was he asking, like the rest of us, ‘can it really end like this’?
We had been reminded, in the week leading up to the Derby della Capitale, of the impact he has made on this city. Totti’s boot sponsors, Nike, had prepared a special set of golden footwear for him to wear against Lazio. At a decidedly cheesy release event, they placed him on top of a throne. The steps leading up to his seat carried the names of the seven monarchs who ruled over Rome from 753 BC to 509 BC.
Fans and journalists have long referred to Totti as the ‘eighth king’ of his city. From his debut to today, his reign has endured for a little over 24 years, longer than 32% of Serie A players have been alive.
Before Sunday, Totti had played in 43 derbies. He had left his mark on them with goals and perhaps even more with the celebrations that followed. His 25-yard ‘cucchiaio’ to seal a 5-1 win in 2002 will not soon be forgotten, and nor will the various T-shirts, sucked thumbs, simulated childbirths or the selfie under the Curva.
This latest derby, though, he might wish to discard from his memory as quickly as possible. Totti had spoken at his boot launch about how games against Lazio felt different, saying that you do not set out to beat your neighbours but to “destroy” them. It was his team, though, that would wind up getting obliterated at the weekend.
Roma began the day with faint title hopes. Juventus’s draw with Atalanta on Friday had opened the door for them to close to within six points of the league leaders – who they still have to host next month. The Giallorossi were in form, too, having won seven of their last eight games (and drawn the other one) as they kicked out of a March slump.
Lazio, by contrast, seemed to have lost a little momentum, defeat to Napoli effectively ending their ambitions to finish in the top three. They suffered a further blow in the build-up to kick-off on Sunday, when top scorer Ciro Immobile was ruled out with a fever.
In his absence, Keita Baldé was left to start alone up front. Perhaps that was a blessing in disguise, or perhaps Simone Inzaghi simply has Roma’s number. He already outwitted Luciano Spalletti in the semi-final of the Coppa Italia, and he did so once again here.
Lazio’s 3-5-1-1 was perfectly structured to counteract opponents with a tendency to overcommit, allying defensive solidity with varied options on the break. Jordan Lukaku and Dusan Basta offered tireless running on the flanks, but Lucas Biglia was just as effective carving straight through the middle of Roma’s midfield. Keita’s pace forced Roma’s defenders back on their heels, and left space for Sergej Milinkovic-Savic to dictate play between the lines.
After a brief moment of Roma pressure to start the game, it was Keita who put Lazio in front, teasing Federico Fazio on the edge of the box before drilling a shot through Emerson’s legs and into the bottom corner. Were it not for some horrible refereeing, the game might already have been won.
After dismissing a strong penalty shout from Lazio, referee Daniele Orsato compounded his mistake by awarding one to Roma after Kevin Strootman dived shamelessly on the stroke of half-time. Daniele De Rossi’s slow-mo conversion briefly put the match back in the balance. But Basta would restore Lazio’s lead just five minutes into the second-half, before Keita made it 3-1 late on.
Totti entered the game in-between those last two Lazio goals. He had been warming up from midway through the first half, bouncing and stretching in the spring sunshine.
As he jogged on in place of De Rossi, the TV cameras picked out fans with tears in their eyes. Totti has never confirmed that this will be his final season as a player, but Roma’s general manager Mauro Baldissoni suggested as much when reminded reporters before kick-off that the captain has a six-year contract to serve as a club director waiting for him, “so he’ll get to live many more derbies, only they’ll be off the pitch.”
Surely, though, such an iconic player could not go quietly. Totti has started just a single league game for Roma this season, but so what? Was there not one last flash of magic to be found in those golden boots of his?
Alas, no. The closest Totti came to making any real impact on this game was a shot charged down outside the box. If there was an image to capture his afternoon, it was probably the one of him being nutmegged by Biglia in midfield.
Perhaps he will yet play in another derby. Asked as he left the stadium whether this was his last one, Totti suggested that “other people” were the ones making such claims. But he has also never given any clear indication that he does intend to return. And the decision, in any case, might be taken away from him if the club do not offer another playing contract.
Either way, this defeat felt like the end of an era. Spalletti, having brought such optimism when he returned to Roma last January, has fallen short of his stated goal of winning a trophy this season. He might regret his past proclamation that “I will win something, or I will go”, but it does appear that the club are preparing to start over.
Monchi’s appointment as sporting director has been confirmed, and already he has been linked with a move to bring his former Sevilla colleague Unai Emery in as manager. Whether Totti retires or not, the playing squad can likewise be expected to undergo a significant overhaul.
That is a contrast with Lazio, who should be doing everything in their power this summer to keep their existing group together. They might have stumbled into something good by accident – Inzaghi earning a promotion from caretaker to full-time manager last summer only after the club contrived to hire and then lose Marcelo Bielsa in the space of two days – but there is a lot to like about this team.
The back four (counting goalkeeper Thomas Strakosha) on Sunday were all 25 or under, with Wesley Hoedt bringing the average age down further when he came off the bench to replace fellow Holland international Stefan De Vrij. Milinkovic-Savic, enjoying a breakout season in the No10 role, is 22 years old, and Felipe Anderson, deployed as an impact sub despite leading Lazio in assists, is still just 24.
Inzaghi has shaped them into something more than the sum of their parts, a team that is dynamic, exciting, and flexible – having switched formations regularly to fit their opposition. The Champions League might be beyond them this season, but they are looking forward with relish to a Coppa Italia final with Juventus.
By beating Roma on Sunday, furthermore, Lazio ended a run of four-and-a-half years without a derby win in Serie A. We cannot say that this group of upstarts ended the reign of the eighth king of Rome. But they certainly refused to kneel down before him.
• A grim spectacle in Sardinia, where Sulley Muntari walked out of Pescara’s 1-0 defeat to Cagliari after being racially abused by a section of the crowd. He had responded to initial provocations by going to speak to a group at half-time, and apparently giving his shirt to a young fan in an attempt to set an example. But when the abuse persisted, with a different group getting involved, he called on the referee and fourth official to stop the match. Instead, he wound up getting shown a yellow card. “That’s where I got angry,” said Muntari afterwards. “Why, instead of stopping the match, did he turn on me? The fans messed up, but the referee should have done something different - not accuse me. I am not a victim. But if you stop the matches I am convinced that these things won’t happen any more.”
• That Atalanta draw with Juventus was the first point that they have taken off the Bianconeri in eight years. They were fortunate not to give away a penalty when Rafael Toloi handled in the area (and this feels like an opportune moment to note that, for all the chatter about Juventus getting favourable decisions, Roma have now received 10 more penalties than the champions in Serie A this season) and required an 89th minute equaliser, but this still felt like a result earned rather than stolen. There is no greater testament to the work Gian Piero Gasperini has done in Bergamo than the fact that his players now feel confident enough to stand toe-to-toe with their opponents in games such as this.
• Crotone continue to rage against the dying of the light, and after drawing at home to Milan have now taken as many points from their last five games as Juventus. Milan, meanwhile, have won just once over the same stretch.
• That’s still better than Inter, whose defeat to Napoli means they have taken one point from their last five games. It was no surprise to see them outplayed by Napoli at San Siro, but this team’s capacity for self-inflicted harm was also highlighted yet again as Yuto Nagatomo gifted the ball to José Callejón for the game’s only goal.
Results: Atalanta 2-2 Juventus, Bologna 4-0 Udinese, Cagliari 1-0 Pescara, Crotone 1-1 Milan, Empoli 1-3 Sassuolo, Genoa 1-2 Chievo, Inter 0-1 Napoli, Palermo 2-0 Fiorentina, Roma 1-3 Lazio, Torino 1-1 Sampdoria
Among plenty of discussion about Arsène Wenger’s decision to abandon the four-man defence he has used for 20 years in favour of a back three it was notable that Mauricio Pochettino’s Tottenham were essentially playing both systems simultaneously in this 2-0 north London derby win. Eric Dier’s ability to play in both defence and midfield meant Spurs seamlessly switched between the systems, nullifying Arsenal’s major attacking threat and putting themselves in control.
Spurs were more 4-2-3-1 than 3-4-3 but, with the full-backs Kieran Trippier and Ben Davies flying forward, Dier dropped back from his defensive midfield role into deeper, right-of-centre positions to stop Arsenal from finding Alexis Sánchez quickly. “I think today you can see our flexibility in our tactics during the game,” said Pochettino afterwards. “How sometimes we had three at the back, four at the back, two at the back with three midfielders, we used the full-backs higher or close inside like a midfielder.” At times Tottenham’s flexibility works so efficiently that their shape transcends numerical formations.
Arsenal’s system at least offered defensive numbers and throughout the first half Wenger’s side were admirably compact, refusing to let Christian Eriksen find space between the lines. They suffered in wider areas, however, and Tottenham built play down their left, behind Mesut Özil, who is neither a keen defender nor particularly comfortable out wide. Tottenham’s two best first-half chances were curiously similar, with Dele Alli and then Eriksen missing from point-blank range at the far post, after deflections fell invitingly. It underlined the first half: Spurs on top in a scrappy game.
Arsenal’s performance was similar to their first-half display against Manchester City at Wembley last weekend, unable to sustain possession in the opposition half, with the wing-backs therefore spending longer in defence than in midfield. Their best two moments before half-time arrived when they took a leaf out of Tottenham’s book and pressed in advanced positions to force turnovers – Hugo Lloris was forced out of goal to palm the ball away from Kieran Gibbs, and Aaron Ramsey attempted a decent low curling shot from just outside the penalty box.
It was surprising that Wenger fielded Olivier Giroud upfront against the Premier League’s most aggressive defensive line – the Frenchman is an excellent centre-forward when playing close to the opposition area but Arsenal have looked more dangerous in this system when a centre-forward runs in behind and turns the opposition. It was a surprise to see Danny Welbeck introduced only after Arsenal were two goals down.
At half-time Pochettino had further demonstrated Spurs’ versatility by switching his attacking midfielders. Heung-min Son moved from the left to the right, Eriksen shifted centrally and Alli started from the left. But those players are allowed the freedom to dovetail, and the breakthrough came after Eriksen’s good work down the right and Alli’s close-range finish. The centre-forward Harry Kane had a relatively quiet game, often battling three centre-backs on his own, but drew a foul from Gabriel and scored the second from the penalty spot, maintaining his excellent record in this fixture.
Eventually Wenger turned to Welbeck, who replaced Granit Xhaka, although he was fielded on the flank rather than upfront. This meant Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain moving to a central midfield role as Wenger reverted to 4-2-3-1, and therefore the natural centre-back Gabriel played at right-back and the natural left-back Nacho Monreal became a centre-back. It felt worryingly disjointed and a comeback rarely looked likely.
The game became stop-start – after no bookings in the first 70 minutes, there were four in the next six minutes – which suited the home side. Indeed Spurs could have extended their lead; Petr Cech was far busier than his opposite number and was Arsenal’s best performer here.
The 2-0 victory confirms Tottenham will finish above Arsenal for the first time since before Wenger took charge but Pochettino is keen to state that Spurs have far loftier ambitions than that. In truth, Arsenal’s ‘St. Totteringham’s Day’ celebrations became pronounced in the years when they weren’t regular title challengers, almost as a consolation for genuine success. There’s a sense that this Tottenham side aren’t looking over their shoulders, but instead looking up the league table towards the summit. Overhauling Chelsea this season will be tough, but Tottenham have already achieved their record Premier League points haul, and are almost guaranteed to finish in second, their highest league placing since the 1960s. It owes much to their hugely impressive coach, and his introduction of a modern, flexible but extremely well-organised tactical system.
1) Anthony Joshua v Wladimir Klitschko, 29 April 2017
There is an argument to put this at the very top, a choice sweetened, perhaps, by currency. But it was some effort for a 19-fight novice champion to get off the floor and devastate a former champion (who boxed his best in years) in one late round. Magnificent.
2) Tyson Fury v Wladimir Klitschko, 28 November 2015
Another great win fresh in the memory. It sits second because Klitschko was complacent that night, and looked finished, but Fury made him look so. A quirky, masterful piece of boxing and a breakthrough fight for one of boxing’s enigmas.
3) Lennox Lewis v Evander Holyfield, 13 March 1999
The fight was officially a draw but it was morally a win for Lewis, who boxed superbly at Madison Square Garden and was denied the verdict by some very dubious judging.
4) Lennox Lewis v Evander Holyfield, 13 November 1999
Lewis’s victory in the Las Vegas rematch, eight months after their first meeting, was vindication for the British fighter but, strangely, not as good a performance.
5) Lennox Lewis v Vitali Klitschko, 21 June 2003
In his farewell fight Lewis was drawn into a bloody battle with Wladimir’s elder brother, with some saying he was fortunate to win on a cuts stoppage. We will never know how it would have panned out but for the unkind cut, but it was a terrific battle while it lasted.
6) Lennox Lewis v Mike Tyson, 8 June 2002
Lewis figures in a few of these because he was dominant in his later years and, to be honest, it was a shell of Tyson that he dispatched. Still, he did it clinically and with little mercy.
7) Frank Bruno v Oliver McCall, 2 September 1995
The brief high-point of Bruno’s career arrived at Wembley Stadium, in front of 23,000 rather than 90,000 fans, and he strained all the way to the end to see off the Atomic Bull, to be a champion at last at his fourth attempt. Fully deserved. Within six months, he would surrender the title to Tyson in Las Vegas.
8) David Haye v Nikolai Valuev, 7 December 2009
This was one of the weirdest world title fights of all time, in any division. Hardly a worthwhile punch was thrown or taken but Haye stuck brilliantly to his strategy of disengagement to see off an opponent who resembled a giant tower block more than a fighter.
9) Bob Fitzsimmons v James J Corbett, 17 March 1897
We go back into the mists of time for this one, relying on the history books for the significance of the win and the performance. And by all those accounts it was some achievement by Ruby Rob, who prepared by sparring with his wife – not something that would pass muster now.
10) Tommy Farr v Joe Louis, 30 August 1937
Another British fight of legend, a losing effort and a brave one by the Welshman, who produced the performance of his life to scare the man who many still regard as the best heavyweight of all time.
The 2017 NFL Draft is over and meaningful football is still more than four months away. That’s a long time to wait for games, so let’s just unveil some Winners and Losers now.
Like every quarterback prospect in football history, there’s no way to know for sure if Deshaun Watson will be good at the professional level. But for the first time in the 16-year history of the franchise, the Texans have a player at the sport’s most important position who promises some hope and excitement.
David Carr was quickly consumed by expansion-quality team-mates and no blocking. Matt Schaub was, at best, a game manager (and towards the end, he wasn’t event that). And the three years since the Schaub era ended have been even more depressing with Ryan Fitzpatrick, Ryan Mallett, Case Keenum, Brian Hoyer, TJ Yates, Brandon Weeden, Brock Osweiler and Tom Savage all getting starts. But Watson has very real upside and is fortunate enough to land on a quality team that has only been missing a quarterback. Houston took six other players over the weekend, but Watson is really the only one that matters.
Hand it to Roger Goodell – well, first boo him, THEN hand it to him – the first NFL-Draft-as-festival was a big hit. It helped that the event was held in Philadelphia, where the citizenry will happily fill any venue for the opportunity to boo something while enjoying an adult beverage. But the NFL now has a real event on its hands to cart around to different NFL cities each April. Sure, they’ll ruin it soon enough by over-commercializing it. But let’s enjoy the fun while we can.
There were many teams that said they wouldn’t draft Joe Mixon, but there was only one team that couldn’t draft Joe Mixon: the Cincinnati Bengals. Of all teams, the Bengals surely wouldn’t give the finger to their community yet again. Even the Bengals couldn’t be that tone deaf and crass.
But wouldn’t you know it, not only did Cincinnati take Mixon, they picked him midway through the second round. To be sure, the Bengals aren’t the only team in the NFL to employ poor citizens. But they seem to be the only one that goes out of their way to bring them in. And what a successful strategy it’s been, with the Bengals almost nearly winning that wildcard playoff game that one time. Chances are the Bengals will be back near the top of the draft again next year, which means the biggest winner of all is some 2018 draft prospect with a rap sheet longer than his broad jump.
Remember how I said there’s no way to know for sure if a quarterback prospect will be good in the NFL? Same goes for Mitchell Trubisky. The Bears seem to think he’ll be a franchise QB, and they mortgaged their future – and then also took out a home equity line of credit and then did one of those reverse mortgages, as well – to land him. If Trubisky is not an NFL star, as most scouts believe, the Bears will have set their franchise back years. But if he turns into one of the league’s best QBs, the trade will look brilliant. I guess just keep this column open in your browser for five years, then refresh and find out the answer.
The Browns did it. They had the No1 overall pick and instead of going for any quarterback on the board like they have for all of modern history, they fought the temptation and took defensive end Myles Garrett. Then, with two more picks in round one, they selected safety Jabrill Peppers and tight end David Njoku. By the time they were up again in the second at No52, Notre Dame quarterback DeShone Kizer was still there. Not a reach, but a value pick. Maybe Kizer pans out, maybe he doesn’t. If he doesn’t, it won’t sink the franchise like missing on Trubisky at No1 would. The new Browns management might not yet be building a winner, but they’re building the foundation of a team that can at least compete. In Cleveland, that’s winning.
Buffalo fulfilled the dreams of six young men during the draft weekend and then, while the players were riding that high, team owner Terry Pegula canned GM Doug Whaley early Sunday morning. So while the team’s draft picks have to be happy to be in the NFL, Whaley’s replacement may have no use for them. That’s tough. Usually the reality of being a Bills player doesn’t smack their draft picks square in the face until September.
By taking running back Christian McCaffrey, wide receiver Curtis Samuel and offensive tackle Taylor Morton with their three picks, the Panthers gave Newton some much-needed help on offense. Newton may have many opportunities to celebrate again in 2017, so gird yourself for some outraged letters to the editor.
Quick. Name one Ravens offensive skill position player. No, Steve Smith is retired and Ray Rice hasn’t been on the roster for a few seasons now (and miraculously hasn’t been signed by the Bengals). So that leaves ... Dennis Pitta? Mike Wallace? A few other guys whose names you won’t even hear in a 16-team fantasy draft? Baltimore GM Ozzie Newsome went heavy on defense in the 2017 Draft, and landed some legit talent in the process. But it’s impossible to win games 0-0 (in fairness, they have a good kicker so 3-0 is there to aim for). The Ravens must truly believe Joe Flacco is so supremely elite that he can score points all by himself.
It was just two years ago that running backs were supposedly moneyballed out of the first round forever. The new conventional wisdom went that it wasn’t worth using an early pick on guys with short shelf-lives whose success hinges on offensive linemen opening holes for them. But last year the Cowboys swung and connected on Ezekiel Elliott at No4 overall and then Thursday night we saw Leonard Fournette and McCaffrey go in the first eight picks of the draft. It seems NFL teams don’t think it’s worth using a first-round pick on a running back ... unless there’s a running back they really want available to them in the first round.
The Seahawks are running out of time to win another Super Bowl before their Legion of Boom secondary starts getting ripped apart by receivers half their age. But Seattle got very little in this year’s draft to help them win now. After trading out of the first-round they picked defensive tackle Malik McDowell, then used their second pick on a center and then went with a project cornerback in Shaquill Griffin. Seattle should still contend this year, but it will have little to do with any of the players they added in the draft.
The Steelers did well to land a draft full of players with significant upside (and also a long snapper), but the big winner in Pittsburgh are all the stores that sell Steelers apparel. Every first-round pick in Steelers history moves merchandise and linebacker TJ Watt will be no different. But as the Watt jersey orders were still rolling in, Pittsburgh took local hero and cancer survivor James Conner on Friday night in round three. There won’t be a man, woman or child in the city without a Conner jersey by the weekend and, if there is, it’s because the manufacturer can’t keep up with demand.
After being told for years by Andy Reid that his short passes and game-managing style is exactly what he wanted, Alex Smith saw the Chiefs trade up to take rifle-armed QB Patrick Mahomes in the first round. It’s like catching your significant other on a date with your polar opposite. Smith would throw a drink Reid’s face, but then the coach would just have Mahomes throw a drink twice as hard.
Would the former safety and broadcaster be in over his head in his first draft as the man running the 49ers? Yes, but only because he was nearly drowned by draft picks that the Bears gave him to trade up to take Trubisky. Lynch ended up with 10 picks in the 2017 draft, a great way to begin rebuilding what’s left of the 49ers franchise.
A year after handing the reigning Super Bowl champions from Peyton Manning to Trevor Siemian (but only after offering Brock Osweiler $16m a year first), Elway’s best draft pick is a fifth-round tight end coming off a torn ACL: Jake Butt. Denver spent their first-round pick on Utah offensive lineman Garrett Boles, who turns 25 this month and therefore has little chance of improving beyond his current state. And then the Broncos closed their draft by selecting Ole Miss quarterback Chad Kelly, who has had a ton of off-the-field issues during his career. But don’t worry, Elway did his due diligence. He called Kelly’s uncle. Uncles: always the greatest source of accurate information.
#Broncos Elway on drafting Chad Kelly. "I called his uncle and said he was a good kid.... We are full of confidence understands situation."
Ryan Sessegnon transfer scrum latest: Manchester United now want English football’s most talked-about teenager too, and according to the Mirror “hope their reputation of bringing through young players will be influential” when the young left-back comes to choose between United, Arsenal, Liverpool, Manchester City, Tottenham, remaining at Fulham or joining pretty much any team of his choice from the top flight of English football. Certainly Sessegnon can hardly avoid being impressed at the love and support United have given to the last emerging English left-back they spent lots of money on.
Juventus have been in touch with Monaco about their midfielder Tiemoué Bakayoko, only to be told to their apparent disappointment that agreement in principle over his transfer had already been reached with Chelsea. According to L’Equipe the only other member of the Monaco side whose goal-accumulating exploits have made them the Champions League’s great entertainers this season who is likely to be allowed to leave this summer is Bernardo Silva, whose agents were recently rumoured to be in “advanced talks” with Manchester United.
Kasper Schmeichel has switched agents, with his new choice – Luca Bascherini, an Italian who operates out of London – leading the Sun to conclude that he might be on his way to Old Trafford, where Bascherini is always made to feel particularly comfortable, come the summer. United’s pursuit might be fruitless, however, with Manchester City able to put forward “the intriguing possibility of Joe Hart being offered in exchange”. One goalkeeper likely to be on his way from Manchester is Sergio Romero, who has only gone and bought a house in Milan.
Before we leave goalkeeping behind, news reaches the Mill that “Napoli could be a great destination for Wojciech Szczesny”, according to no lesser source than the on-loan Arsenal shot-stopper’s agent, Jonathan Barnett. “First of all,” he also noted, “we have to see how Arsène Wenger’s situation evolves.”
According to the Spanish newspaper AS, Barcelona have decided their as-yet unappointed new manager will require two new full-backs and some kind of creative midfield presence to improve the side for next season, and have identified Arsenal’s Héctor Bellerín as the man to play on their right flank, Atlético Madrid’s Theo Hernández as the ideal left-back, and are weighing up the relative merits of Paris Saint-Germain’s Marco Verratti – whose agent has already held talks with the Spanish club, apparently – and Liverpool’s Philippe Coutinho for the midfield role.
Brighton are busy planning their summer upgrades as they prepare for life in the Premier League, and have made Chelsea’s Tammy Abraham, a star on loan at Bristol City, their top attacking target. The Seagulls probably can’t compete with some of the other clubs linked with the 19-year-old, a list that includes Everton and Leicester, but if instead of cashing in Chelsea choose to loan him out for another season they feel they could come to the fore.
Everton are also interested in another 19-year-old forward, in the shape of Henry Onyekuru, a Nigerian winger whose form for Belgian side KAS Eupen has already attracted Celtic, Southampton and Sevilla. “Everton have now been over the North Sea to try to close a move for Onyekuru, who could fill in for long-term crock Yannick Bolasie,” reports the Sun. Liverpool, meanwhile, have taken a shine to Feyenoord’s centre-back Terence Kongolo and the Atalanta right-back Andrea Conti, two players who were born within a couple of weeks of each other in early 1994. And talking of right-backs, this might be the perfect place to shoehorn in rumours that Brentford have agreed to pay Zulte Waregem just under £1m for their 27-year-old Hanrik Dalsgaard.
The chances are that Bath will miss out on the top four unless Leicester make a complete mess of their final game at Worcester. The manner of their 44-20 thrashing of Gloucester merely underlined the up-and-down nature of their season but the good news for the British and Irish Lions is that Taulupe Faletau looks right back in form. The Wales No8 scored a hat-trick of tries and his director of rugby, Todd Blackadder, reckons New Zealand will have their hands full this summer. “All those Lions loose-forwards are absolutely outstanding but they’ll need every single one of them,” predicted Blackadder. “There are a lot of matches before they even get to the Tests. They’ll certainly need the cavalry at some stage.” RK
• Bath 44-20 Gloucester
Leicester used to be the team to beat in the play-offs, but now they are making up the numbers, clinging on to fourth place in a season when they have had three heads of their coaching team. They have been doubled by the three teams above them in their table and their away form in the Champions Cup, in which they suffered three heavy defeats, does not point to an appearance at Twickenham at the end of the month. A one-off occasion has the capacity to surprise, but the perennial play-off contenders reaching the final would be a shock. Like their East Midlands rivals, they face a summer of reflection. PR
• Leicester 41-18 Sale
Northampton have failed to make the play-offs for the second consecutive season and their final match of the season at home to Harlequins on Saturday will be a pitch for a Champions Cup place. They have won nine Premiership matches out of 21, doubled by Wasps, Saracens and Leicester with their only victory against a side in the top four secured against the Chiefs in September: four of their wins came against the bottom two sides. Jim Mallinder said at the end of last season that there would be a change of emphasis tactically but, like Wales, they are stuck between the past and the present. PR
• Exeter 36-12 Northampton
Having watched Nick Tompkins’ significant contributions to Saracens’ bonus-point win against Bristol it became increasingly puzzling as to why he is not touring Argentina this summer. The answer however, surely came 24 hours previously with Joe Marchant’s performance for Harlequins against Wasps. Marchant’s late try, which put the seal on Harlequins’ victory, was fully deserved after another eye-catching 80 minutes from the outside-centre. All the more impressive, he outshone his opposite number Elliot Daly, who had a particularly off evening. It may have just been a blip but it will concern Warren Gatland nonetheless. A number of players heavily involved during the Six Nations are already beginning to look like they have had long seasons. GM
• Harlequins 32-13 Wasps
With the greatest respect to Bristol, however poor Saracens were on Saturday, an upset never felt like a genuine possibility. That they could not quite hold out to deny Saracens the bonus point will be all the more galling for Mark Tainton, whose side led 9-3 at half-time. They had that advantage at the break thanks to three penalties from Gavin Henson – none of them straightforward but all of them straight through the posts. The last time Bristol won in the Premiership, back in February, Henson also kicked all of their points but as Tainton said afterwards, to win Premiership matches you have to score tries and Bristol simply do not have enough cutting edge about them. GM
• Saracens 27-9 Bristol
The Championship play-offs will not happen next year with the regular season league winners going up instead. With Ealing Trailfinders and Doncaster both involved in the semis despite declining to put themselves forward for promotion, the existing system had become seriously flawed and London Irish look increasingly odds on to replace Bristol regardless. Their 35-3 win at Doncaster gives them a virtually impregnable lead in the two-leg tie, although Yorkshire Carnegie also scored a convincing 34-16 victory at Ealing. RK
The cumulative scoreline for the two fixtures between Newcastle and Worcester reads 25-25 – an apt tie considering how evenly matched they are. A quick glance at the table however shows that while Worcester have been looking over their shoulders, or were at least until a surprise victory over Saracens during the Six Nations, Newcastle have been looking upwards. With London Irish expected to clinch promotion this season, and Bristol tipped to return much stronger the following year, Worcester need to follow the lead of the Falcons and set their sights higher than just staying in the division. GM
Ospreys’ 24-10 win over Ulster has virtually ensured the Welsh region’s place in the play-offs alongside Leinster, Munster and the Scarlets. Last year’s champions Connacht and the Cardiff Blues, meanwhile, are set to enter the European Champions’ Cup qualification play-offs alongside the seventh placed sides in the Top 14 and the English Premiership respectively. Gloucester could secure the latter English slot if they defeat Stade Français in Friday week’s Challenge Cup final. RK
Sean Dyche laughed off the fact James Tarkowski had been struck by a plastic cigarette lighter as Burnley’s players celebrated their first goal but Crystal Palace will find the incident far from amusing. This was the third time a visiting player has been struck by an object thrown from that corner of the Holmesdale stand since the club returned to the Premier League in 2013. Wayne Rooney and more recently Fabricio Coloccini were the others hit and the Metropolitan police appealed for witnesses over the coin flung at the Newcastle defender. The Football Association spoke with Palace on both occasions but took no action. The incident is sure to be included in the referee Bobby Madley’s match report. Palace upgraded their CCTV after the Newcastle incident. “It’ll be dealt with, but it’s very disappointing,” Sam Allardyce said. “You don’t want to see that.” Dominic Fifield
• Match report: Crystal Palace 0-2 Burnley
Ronald Koeman is looking increasingly annoyed at Everton’s present situation – held at West Ham last week, overrun in the end by Chelsea to end a sequence of eight wins on the bounce at Goodison – yet he knew the score when he came to Merseyside from Southampton. Everton are best of the rest, a nailed-on seventh. This season, with Chelsea back, Spurs going well and Arsenal hanging in there as usual, a top-six finish was always likely to be beyond Everton’s grasp. That situation will apply most seasons unless one or more of the big six unexpectedly hit the buffers, and it is for that reason that Everton face a difficult summer trying to keep Romelu Lukaku. Everton are not quite successful enough to retain their best performers, yet in playing if not in financial terms they cannot afford to sell them. Everton have improved under Koeman, though the significant step upwards seems as far away as ever. Paul Wilson
• Match report: Everton 0-3 Chelsea
After Marcus Rashford wrongly won a penalty when diving in this 1-1 draw, Paul Clement made a strong argument regarding video technology. Swansea’s manager said: “When we played Burnley at home, a cross went into the box, their player has handled it, and he [the referee] gave a penalty to Burnley. A simple look at any kind of device sorts it out in less than a minute. I saw in the France-Spain game they trialled it. They reviewed an offside decision, it took 48 seconds and the correct decision was given. It’s unbelievable that in this day and age with the technology available, the only people that don’t get help are the ones who most need it. We can see it, you can, the fans, everyone apart from the officials. It has to be done. It’s long overdue.” Neil Swarbrick, the referee here, deserved help to avoid making the latest mistake a quick replay would have avoided. Jamie Jackson
• Marcus Rashford deceived referee for penalty, says Paul Clement
Manchester United missed the chance to move third with a 1-1 draw against Swansea, but the damage to their top-four aspirations was relatively light given Manchester City’s slip at Middlesbrough. The damage to their Europa League campaign could be far greater, however: Eric Bailly and Luke Shaw both hobbled off and are doubts for Thursday’s semi-final first leg at Celta Vigo, joining Chris Smalling, Phil Jones, Marcos Rojo and Timothy Fosu-Mensah on an alarmingly long list of injured defenders. United finished the game with a patched-up back four of Antonio Valencia, Matteo Darmian, Daley Blind and Ashley Young and this underwhelming quartet will likely line up in Vigo. After the match Mourinho blamed a busy fixture list for “punishing” his team’s success in cup competitions, and threatened to play the reserves in their last league game of the season in order to rest his team for the Europa League final three days later – but a depleted United must get there first, or risk missing out on Champions League football and regretting the 10 Premier League home draws, like this one, which have stalled their season. Lawrence Ostlere
• Match report: Manchester United 1-1 Swansea City
While Pep Guardiola faces an anxious wait to discover whether the injury to Sergio Agüero here will sideline his key striker, Steve Agnew is similarly concerned to learn if he has done enough to become Middlesbrough’s manager next season. Like Guardiola at City, Aitor Karanka’s interim successor has not always convinced but this was the Teessiders’ best performance of the season and suggested he could yet mastermind a Championship promotion bid. Although Boro are not mathematically down, their survival chances are fading in much the same manner that City’s hopes of a top‑four finish will recede should Agüero be unavailable. “I think he has a leg injury,” said Guardiola. “We’ll make the assessment on Monday. Now we have three games at home and they’ll decide whether we deserve to be in the Champions League next season.” Louise Taylor
• Match report: Middlesbrough 2-2 Manchester City
Marco Silva has undoubtedly been the driving force behind Hull City’s turnaround since the turn of the year but their captain, Harry Maguire, has also come to the fore. The 24-year-old, who joined Hull from Sheffield United for £2.5m in 2014, was used sporadically by previous managers but has been at the heart of Hull’s resurgence. The challenge for Silva, regardless of which division they are playing in next season, will be retaining the defender, whom he has suggested should be in England squad. “Of course, it is an important player to us, a young player as well and it’s important for Hull City to keep these types of players,” said Silva, who confirmed the club had not received an official approach for Maguire. The centre-back, after a difficult first 12 months in east Yorkshire, almost joined Bristol City in 2015 but Steve Bruce rejected the offer and the player, although he has had to bide his time, is reaping the rewards. Ben Fisher
• Match report: Southampton 0-0 Hull City
England have lacked for good news on the goalkeeping front for some time but the return of Jack Butland for Stoke, after more than a year out since his injury against Germany, offers one piece of encouragement. Butland was probably the standout performer in an otherwise meaningless goalless draw with West Ham on Saturday. His saves from André Ayew and Manuel Lanzini caught the eye but it was his commanding overall presence in the box that might have most impressed the watching England manager, Gareth Southgate. “All top clubs need keepers like Jack,” said the Stoke manager, Mark Hughes. They need good strikers too, of course, and Stoke must hope Saido Berahino’s luck finally changes soon. The forward is still goalless for his new club and was agonisingly close to breaking his duck when denied by Adrián’s one-handed save. Tom Davies
• Match report: Stoke City 0-0 West Ham United
Sunderland’s relegation represented the “worst day” of David Moyes’s career and his Wearside tenure may now end in divorce but the former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad manager did something right in the north-east. When he invested almost half the club’s £30m summer spend on the little-known Gabon midfielder Didier Ndong, from Lorient in France, eyebrows were raised – and not least in Ligue 1 circles. Ndong, though, has frequently proved to be Sunderland’s best outfield player this season (the brilliant young goalkeeper Jordan Pickford has been the real star) and, typically, kept his side in the game up until Josh King’s late winner for Bournemouth. Sunderland’s record signing is still a bit raw but his high‑energy enterprise could serve the team extremely well in the Championship. Providing Sunderland can keep hold of him, of course … Louise Taylor
• Match report: Sunderland 0-1 Bournemouth
It was a moment that summed up Arsenal’s afternoon at Tottenham Hotspur and, also, a broader theme of their season. One-nil down to Dele Alli’s goal, it was vital that they kept things tight for a few minutes, tried to ride out the storm. Enter Gabriel Paulista. It was a ridiculous challenge from the Brazil defender, one that he did not need to make and it presented Harry Kane with his penalty, three minutes after Alli’s goal. Game over. Gabriel lacked the composure when the pressure was at its highest and it felt like yet another instance of Arsenal’s fragility. This was an ordeal for them. Quite simply, Tottenham wanted it more. They ran harder and further; they dominated the 50-50s and, were it not for Petr Cech, the final scoreline would have been heavier. Thanks to results elsewhere, Arsenal’s top-four hopes are not dead. Playing like this, they will be. David Hytner
• Match report: Tottenham Hotspur 2-0 Arsenal
• Barney Ronay: Dele Alli and Harry Kane lay bare Arsenal’s decay
It has been a wild season for Leicester City, a rollercoaster ride that led to Claudio Ranieri’s dismissal and at one stage looked like ending with English football witnessing its first top-flight champions to be relegated since 1938. Yet when the dust settles on this chaotic campaign, and people look back through the record books in years to come, everything will point to a perfectly acceptable season on the back of the unthinkable 12 months earlier. After flying the flag for English football in the last eight of the Champions League, Leicester are now on course, with three of their final four games at home, to finish in the top half of the Premier League. “If somebody said we’d got to the quarter-finals of the Champions League and finish 10th, then a lot of people would have been snapping people’s hands off for that,” Danny Drinkwater said after this win. Stuart James
• Match report: Leicester City 1-0 West Bromwich Albion
The first day of Anthony Joshua’s reign as the best heavyweight in the world did not properly see daylight until 4.30pm on a quiet Sunday afternoon in a rented mansion of some splendour in north London. After a fight of unprecedented good manners against Wladimir Klitschko, he now craves a bout against a “real villain”, and none fits the bill better for him than Tyson Fury.
What a contrast it was in leafy St John’s Wood from his workplace the night before. By the time the world champion awoke after the longest of sleeps to embrace the scale of his achievement in front of 90,000 people at Wembley Stadium, the dismantled legend he had dispatched was already back in Germany.
At 41, the only road left for Klitschko to travel leads back to Joshua. The Ukrainian had played his part in the most gentlemanly buildup to a fight in living memory and, having suffered the indignity of being floored three times, twice in the 11th round before being stopped on his feet in his opponent’s corner, he acknowledges all the negotiating chips now are with Joshua, 14 years his junior.
The IBF (and new WBA and IBO) champion knows it too, although his humble demeanour remained rock-solidly in place as he spoke about what almost certainly will be the most golden years of an already gilded existence. At 27, he is indisputably his sport’s most bankable attraction and moves alongside Andy Murray as Britain’s brightest sporting star. They will go toe-to-toe for the BBC Sports Personality of the Year award, and the Wimbledon champion, a huge boxing fan, would have to do something spectacular to hold Joshua at bay.
“My worry was if it would live up to expectations,” he said. He agreed that it did, of course. “At the end of the fight they cheered Wladimir but, yes it would be nice to fight a real villain.”
He added: “I think that we can definitely find someone to dance with again, to bring that sort of attention again. Anyone with a belt is good, to add more to the [collection]. We could rematch Klitschko again. I think that would be good because of the type of fight we had. And I think even guys without a belt would be good. Tyson Fury obviously hasn’t got a belt.”
But he does have a reputation that would make any fight with Joshua considerably more in keeping with boxing’s tradition for craziness, before, during and, sometimes, afterwards.
As for who the champion would like to fight if all other factors were equal, Joshua is in no doubt: it would be either Fury or Dillian Whyte, whom he stopped in his most thrilling contest before the Klitschko show. Fury is definitely top of the list. “Yeah, that’s a fight that would bring massive attention from the top to the bottom.”
After the Klitschko fight Joshua was as relaxed as he had been for the weeks leading up to it. Now he wants to enjoy the fruits of his labours. He will spend time with his family and his 18-month-old son, JJ, who might have taken a peek at Saturday night’s action at his grandmother’s place.
But he has business to take care off, as well, and the fight game is a shark pool. However, as his promoter, Eddie Hearn, points out to him, he is well and truly in the driving seat now. The others come to him – including the American TV power-brokers, who, Hearn said, were ecstatic with every aspect of the evening, from 90,000 fans roaring their traditional boxing anthem, Sweet Caroline, to the drama that unfolded in the ring.
Now Hearn will talk to the IBF in earnest although he says the prospect of Joshua defending against its mandatory contender, the Bulgarian Kubrat Pulev, is slim. That, most definitely, would not be at Wembley or the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff, which will become Joshua’s exclusive homes for as long as he can extend his unbeaten 19-fight run at the top of boxing’s greasiest pole.
As Hearn explained to Joshua: “You will get to the stage eventually where I will say to you: ‘How important is this belt to you?’ And you’ll go: ‘I really like that one.’ And I’ll say: ‘You’ll only get mandatory on these ones.’ The WBA is Luis Ortiz, but not yet. The IBF is more important than the IBO, for instance.”
Did Joshua really believe that Klitschko wants a rematch? He paused before answering. “I think he will want to because a fighter is the last one to know when it’s time to stop, but I think the team around him, ie his wife, and they normally wear the trousers, and his brother [Vitali], they will advise him differently.”
On the evidence of the contest, Wladimir’s nearest who care for him are probably right. The only advantage for him in a reprise is the obvious one: money, of which he has plenty but, as they say, you can always do with more.
Whether he could do with a repeat of the punishment he took in the 11th round is questionable. It was a spectacular conclusion to a fight that probably outranks all others featuring a British heavyweight at world level. And there will be many more to come.
The story of Justin Fashanu – the world’s first £1m black footballer and Britain’s first openly gay footballer, who killed himself aged 37 in 1998 – makes a moving, challenging, troubling biopic. Forbidden Games tells how Justin and his brother John, aged four and three, were removed from their mother and three siblings, to be fostered by Barnardo’s. The more sensitive Justin could never reconcile what he perceived to be an abandonment, but John saw things differently. “No mother wants to give away her own children,” he says, “and it propelled us to become major celebrities all over the world. We made ourselves millionaires, so it couldn’t have been all that bad, could it?”
John’s resulting insecurity manifested itself in shyness and a speech impediment. He clung to Justin, “the only person who could hear what I was talking about … that was part of the bonding of us at a young age”.
Eventually, the brothers were fostered by a white couple in Shropham, Norfolk, where their real mother would visit once a month. They were excited by the opportunity to be part of a family, but the passage was not seamless – John struggled to sleep, so a doctor told his foster mother to hug him tight. “She used to grab me and give me a great big cuddle every morning, every evening, and that gave me a lot of security,” he recalls. “It was a lovely feeling, your whole face disappearing into Mummy’s breasts.”
The boys’ colour made them outsiders in Norfolk. “If you saw a black person,” says John, “that was Michael Jackson’s picture somewhere, and maybe, maybe, if you were lucky, Muhammad Ali … they were the only black people I saw in my life till I got to 18, 19.”
Accordingly, they grew up knowing “nothing about race”; had the 16-year-old John been asked about colour, “I’d have told you I was white because the environment was white.” But his world changed when, at the age of 18 and without Justin, he visited Nigeria – his father’s homeland, and now his home. “The plane landed, and for the first time the doors opened and I just saw black people everywhere,” he says. “I was shocked! I thought: ‘Wow, wonderful!’ My own people! My God! Hallelujah! People who look like me! I can walk around the whole of Nigeria free as a black man! That was the beginning of my life as far as I was concerned.”
Meanwhile Justin, though proud, was ambivalent regarding race; principally, he wanted to be left alone. Scarred by the childhood trauma from which he had protected John – he endured violent nightmares into adulthood – he was simultaneously vulnerable and charismatic, desperate for acceptance and searching for identity.
Growing up where and when he did, this was not easy. “It was a racist society,” John recalls. “Times have, thank goodness, changed, but they’ve changed on our backs.”
After suffering numerous beatings, the brothers took up boxing and martial arts. The single-minded John became an expert, while the impressionable Justin was dissuaded by those who deemed them dangerous – or, as John sees it: “He was always getting something and dropping it.”
But his footballing excellence was unignorable. “That was the easiest way for us to make money, which we made an awful lot of,” says John. “There were no black bankers, lawyers, or anything at all. We knew the only way to make money if you were black was either to sing, dance or play football – that’s it.”
Justin soon carved a niche at Norwich, before signing for Brian Clough’s Nottingham Forest in 1981. During that time, he developed a taste for big spending and fast living, also making regular appearances in Nottingham’s gay bars. Before long, Clough excommunicated him, even calling the police to the training ground on one occasion. Beset by injury, Justin’s career tailed off, while his personal life grew increasingly chaotic and his behaviour increasingly erratic.
John left Norwich in 1983 to escape his more talented brother’s shadow; he was also angry that Justin hadn’t used his influence to help him at the club or elsewhere. The man he saw as “my mother and father”, “my shining light” and “my life” became “my arch enemy”, and their relationship never recovered.
In 1986, John joined Wimbledon, and was a key figure as the Crazy Gang established themselves in the top division before winning the FA Cup in 1988. In 1989, he was picked for England, and in 1990 at the Professional Footballers’ Association dinner, he was accosted in the toilet.
“One of the most famous players, playing for Nottingham Forest, just said to me: ‘Hey, your brother’s gay.’ I’d heard little things, but when he said that, the first thing I was gonna do, I was gonna beat the hell out of him. I was with Vinnie Jones, and it was Vinnie who held me back … I was gonna give him a good slap because I thought he was insulting my brother.”
John, “a red-blooded African man”, did not believe it – until Justin confided in him. Both their mothers were ill, and assuming that Justin was simply after money and attention, John responded angrily. “Right now, we don’t need that,” he said. “I will give you £100,000 if you just keep your mouth shut.”
John was also concerned for himself: “I was worried that people would think it was me. John Fashanu, Justin Fashanu, J and J … I was the hard man, we were hard men, Vinnie Jones, John Fashanu, Dennis Wise, we were the hard team with a macho, strong image, we had a massive following of people who loved the way we played, and suddenly my brother’s coming out and saying this?”
So to “empower” his brother, John wrote a cheque and had his agent take Justin to a hotel, only to discover that “my agent was a gay sympathiser”. In the event, Justin kept John’s money and sold the story to the Sun anyway.
Justin also revealed that he had slept with a married Conservative MP and that they had kissed in the House of Commons. He later retracted the claims – despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary – but John now believes that the liaison never happened.
Nor does he accept the evidence offered by a teammate at Leyton Orient that Justin would arrive at training with “rent boys”, and says that an allegation of raping a minor in the US is untrue; on the other hand, after questioning and blood testing, a warrant was issued for Justin’s arrest on charges of first- and second-degree assault and second-degree sexual assault. But he had already left for England.
The last time the brothers spoke, Justin feared for his liberty, but John, despite now accepting homosexuality as “a normal thing”, was “too annoyed to understand what he was really saying” and did not believe that Justin deserved his unconditional loyalty. “There comes a time when it’s enough help,” he says. “Enough is enough. He was my older brother, not my younger brother. Why am I continually giving him money?” Three days later, John was baptising his son Amir when the police arrived, media in tow, to tell him that his brother had killed himself and asking him to identify the body.
“I feel a bit cross with myself that I didn’t see these challenges Justin was having,” he says. “A little bit more understanding and a little bit more softness could’ve changed a lot of things … the misunderstanding Justin had with Mother is the same misunderstanding I had with Justin.”
But even if he might have acted differently, he has no regrets: “You can’t go back and say: ‘Oh my God, how would it have been different?’ Because the whole world would have been different.” Nor does he think that things might have turned out differently had he not handled Justin’s coming out the way he did. “I think that he would have possibly committed suicide even earlier … and I now thank God I didn’t give him all the money I’d promised to give him.”
Although he remembers Justin in his prayers every Sunday, he has moved on. “Put it in perspective,” he insists. “Why would I be crying after 15 years. My mother has died, my other mother has died, my father has died, people die.”
He remains proud of his brother. “Whether you like him or you don’t like him, or you love him or you hate him, Justin Fashanu is a legend.”
Forbidden Games, which previews on 2 May at Toronto’s Hot Docs festival, is a Fulwell73 film in association with Darke Films and Black Sun Media, produced and directed by Adam Darke and Jon Carey
If finals formats are meant to deliver the best two teams on grand final day, then the weekend’s semi-finals worked to perfection. However it bears thinking that, in essence, four sides duked it out last week for the right to be comfortably beaten by the A-League’s best sides this week. In other words, the semis have served to confirm what we just about already knew: Sydney are the best team in Australia, and Victory are the team most likely to knock them over in a one-off, winner-takes-all showdown.
And so, in the end, it’s the grand final we had to have. The weekend’s games – the first a fairly tepid affair, the second bruising if a little humdrum – put paid to any question over the A-League’s best two teams. Now, we’re left with the prospect of a Big Blue to decide it all. The unstoppable force versus the immovable object, and all that.
For Melbourne, there was certainly much to suggest that they’ve forged an impressive steel in defence, even if they were arrhythmic in possession against Brisbane. They were ably led by skipper Leigh Broxham, who was in a particularly destructive mood. If his team can harry and harass Sydney the way they did Brisbane on Sunday night, the Sky Blues may find scoring opportunities scarce.
Indeed, Victory’s win was notable for the sharpness of their press, as Brisbane were barely able to conjure successive passes before surrendering the ball to their opponents. Both John Aloisi and Brett Holman conceded as much after the game, and Aloisi in particular may reflect in hindsight that Thomas Broich might have helped unlock Victory’s rearguard.
Instead, the Roar hung in the game courtesy of Melbourne’s profligacy in front of goal more than anything else. In a match billed as a shootout between Besart Berisha and Jamie McClaren, the latter remained disconnected from his suppliers, and thus struggled to make any meaningful contribution. That was ultimately down to an athletic, high intensity operation from the home side. Melbourne’s ability to stifle Brisbane’s attack will have been keenly noted by the visiting Graham Arnold, whose own midfield will have to operate at the upper end of their capabilities of precision to disorganise the visitors’ setup.
Sydney’s dominance has been so complete this year that one could barely dream up a more perfect route to the grand final. They have been that good that all they are missing, arguably, is one of those awakening losses former pros like to talk about. They were imperious once more against Perth on Saturday night, even if they were on the right side of a contentious VAR decision. As many are discovering, the use of video technology does not remove the game’s natural grey areas. For Jordy Buijs’ eventual goal, the linesman thought Bobô was both offside and impeding Dino Djulbic, and VAR Strebre Delovski disagreed. Where personal interpretation exists, disagreement will endure.
Kenny Lowe’s resulting apoplexy was at once understandable and revealing: when those interpretations don’t fall your way, the proliferation of technology can exacerbate symptoms of rage. Even so, Lowe’s wild gesticulations and bulging head veins at 2-0 seemed more in keeping with the attitudes of players chasing a lost cause. It was little surprise that Sydney added to their lead soon after, which contained its own moment of rage. In an act almost personifying the lividity of his manager, Liam Reddy shoulder charged Buijs in a hit that belonged in 1970s rugby league. In any event, Sydney had killed the game. For Perth, it was gone by half-time, allowing the Sky Blues to ease off in the second half.
For a team that has swept all before it in a manner unmatched in this competition’s history, Sydney still retain an air of mortality. They don’t operate with the sort of swashbuckle one might expect of a consistently superior team. They toil, they sweat, and they arm-wrestle opponents into submission. It’s a compliment to Arnold’s approach, which routinely results in Sydney first outfighting and outmuscling their adversaries, before touches of class usually prove decisive. In short, they manage the details of the game better than anyone, and will rightly start the grand final as warm favourites.
Given Sydney’s unparalleled dominance this year, it’s hard to escape the feeling that there is something oddly unbalanced about both teams entering the title decider on equal footing. For that reason, Kevin Muscat’s Victory have great cause to arrive buoyant next Sunday, and their speedy press may suit the bobbly Allianz Stadium surface. Anything other than a Sydney triumph will be regarded as a boilover. Perversely, though, that very point may paradoxically free Victory and make this a contest to remember.
Isaiah Thomas had one of his front teeth dislodged after an early game collision on Sunday but still ran up 33 points and nine assists, as the Celtics made 19 three-pointers to beat the Wizards 123-111 and take a 1-0 lead in their Eastern Conference semifinal matchup.
“I got in at 4am,” Thomas said after he returned from the funeral of his sister, Chyna, who was killed earlier this month in a car crash. “It’s tough, but it’s the playoffs so there are no excuses. I decided to play and I just tried to give it all for my team.”
The Celtics star flew to the funeral with Boston president of basketball operations Danny Ainge and assistant coach Jerome Allen. During player introductions, Thomas pointed to the TD Garden rafters when his name was called.
Al Horford added 21 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists. Jae Crowder finished with career playoff-high 24 points. Game 2 is set for Tuesday night.
The Wizards were more energetic at the outset, jumping out to a 16-0 advantage and leading by as many as 17 points. But the Celtics rallied with Thomas briefly sidelined while getting his tooth repositioned in the second quarter.
“I didn’t know if we’d ever score and I didn’t know if they’ve ever stop scoring,” Celtics coach Brad Stevens said.
Bradley Beal led Washington with 27 points. John Wall added 20 points and 16 assists. Washington starter Markieff Morris played just 11 minutes before leaving with a sprained left ankle in the second quarter after landing awkwardly on Horford’s foot.
The Wizards also had a tough time responding after Stevens started Marcus Smart in place of Gerald Green in the third quarter. “They were a little more aggressive than we were,” Beal said. “Our defense slipped a little. We lacked some IQ and focus.”
A rivalry has been simmering between the teams since last year, when Boston swept the season series. They split their four regular-season matchups this season, but each included intense moments.
Sunday’s matchup was played at just as high a level, with a frenzied pace at times and physical play underneath the basket. After the Wizards’ early scoring flurry, Thomas lost his tooth, but initially kept playing. He found it during a timeout, but started the second quarter in the locker room. His teammates went on a 13-2 run without him to cut into Washington’s lead. Boston led by 15 by the end of the third.
Mark Selby has much to do if he is to join Steve Davis, Stephen Hendry and Ronnie O’Sullivan in the elite club of champions to have successfully defended the world snooker title at the Crucible Theatre.
The 33-year-old trails the four-times champion John Higgins 10-7 after two sessions of this best-of-35-frames final but was at times so out of sorts he will have gone to bed mightily relieved the deficit he must overcome is not a great deal more.
At one point more than halfway through the second session he was six frames behind and foundering, but his late and improbable rally has left this final nicely poised.
In 2007 Higgins beat Selby to win his second world final but this time the Englishman, who celebrates his 116th consecutive week as world No1 on Monday, began as hot favourite to secure his third title in four years.
This was expected to be attritional and so it came to pass, with Higgins playing catch-up as the players exchanged the first four frames. The pick of them featured a superb 141 break from the Scot, the joint highest in world final history.
At times Higgins played as well as he has ever done but, like Selby, he was also guilty of showing his worst. In the claustrophobic confines of the Crucible, with a record first prize of £375,000 on offer, it was perhaps understandable. Despite uncharacteristic errors the combatants rattled in 11 half-centuries or better between them in the day’s 17 frames.
The raffish Selby, formally dressed with his short, dark hair slicked back, resembles a figurine groom plucked from atop a wedding cake.
Eight years his rival’s senior and with the salt-and-pepper hair to show for it, the 41-year-old Higgins was equally well turned out but looks more like the father of the bride. His opening shot, the first of this final, drew a rap of appreciation from his opponent but a loose subsequent positional shot meant it was Selby who took first blood with a nerve-settling 76. Good play, awful play, great play: a long day’s tone was set.
Following the first mid-session interval successive breaks of 63, 95, 58 and 49 enabled Higgins to roar into a 6-2 lead, with a series of baffling Selby mistakes leaving the champion rolling his eyes in frustration.
The rot was stopped with a break of 86 to begin the evening action but, looking drained by his marathon semi-final win over Ding Junhui, Selby lost two edgy, scrappy and error-strewn frames. In one he undercooked an attempt to snooker Higgins by rolling up behind the green without hitting it.
Put back in, and clearly baffled by his own ineptitude, he escaped but left a difficult frame-winning opportunity which his opponent did not squander. To nobody’s great surprise Higgins quickly returned the favour by missing a straight pink to the middle to allow Selby to reduce the deficit to a more manageable four frames. It was that sort of day.
A stop-start second session, in which Selby found himself 10-4 down at his lowest ebb, spluttered into life with three frames left. Breaks of 84 and a magnificent 121 stopped this final from getting away from the defending champion before he eventually prevailed in a bitty final frame which both players did their best to lose.
Celebrating four decades of the Crucible as the home of snooker in a recent documentary, Steve Davis said the venue’s tales “are crafted stories, chapter after chapter … stories within stories”.
After 16 days this year’s who-wunnit is almost over but the reigning champion’s heroic determination and iron will point to further plot twists.
New York Mets ace Noah Syndergaard left his start against the Washington Nationals in the second inning with an injury on a day to forget for his team. The team announced Syndergaard has “a possible lat strain” and was headed to New York for an MRI.
The right-hander was making his first start since April 20. He was a late scratch from his last scheduled outing Thursday against the Atlanta Braves due to biceps discomfort. But he threw a bullpen Friday, said he felt fine and refused an MRI. “I think I know my body best,” Syndergaard told reporters at the time. “I’m pretty in tune with my body, and that’s exactly why I refused to take the MRI.”
The day was about to get worse for the Mets though, as Anthony Rendon – and the rest of his team-mates – feasted on their opponents. Rendon had 10 RBIs, three home runs and six hits as his team set a franchise scoring record.
Anthony Rendon has a day for the ages: https://t.co/60WVKAqdnu pic.twitter.com/6VGd4O31WX
Rendon went a career-best 6 for 6 and scored five times while setting a club mark for RBIs. He became the 13th player in major league history to drive in 10 or more in a game, and first since Garret Anderson did it for the Angels in 2007.
Matt Wieters added two homers, a single and two walks as the Nationals salvaged the finale of a three-game series. Adam Lind and Bryce Harper also homered, and Harper scored four runs.
Washington finished with a season-high 23 hits and scored the most runs in the history of the Expos/Nationals franchise. The Nationals’ seven homers were their most since the team moved from Montreal to Washington in 2005.
Mauricio Pochettino spoke of his pride and delight at Tottenham Hotspur’s 2-0 home win against Arsenal in the north London derby and insisted that they remained in the Premier League title race, despite the “disappointment” of seeing the leaders Chelsea power on at Everton earlier in the day.
Chelsea’s trip to Goodison Park had looked like the toughest assignment of their run-in but they surged to a 3-0 victory – on the back of second-half goals from Pedro, Gary Cahill and Willian – and it had the manager, Antonio Conte, celebrating wildly on the pitch at full-time.
Tottenham were asked to respond and they did so in the last north London derby at the “old” White Hart Lane. They seemed to want the result more than Arsenal and they got it thanks to goals from Dele Alli and Harry Kane.
They sit four points behind Chelsea with four games to go and visit West Ham United on Friday night, before Chelsea entertain Middlesbrough on Monday week.
Pochettino knows that his team could cut the gap to a single point and he agreed that they might be able to ramp up the pressure on Chelsea ahead of their fixture with Middlesbrough. “Could be, could be,” Pochettino said. “It will be a tough game but, if we are able to win, we will see what happens.
“The players just need to be proud of the performance against Arsenal. Of course, I am disappointed because it was a great opportunity to reduce the gap. It is four points but all is possible in football. I am so proud and happy with the team’s performance and our support. We are in the race for the title and now we have to be focused on the West Ham game.”
Conte saw his Chelsea team end Everton’s run of eight consecutive home wins and it made it the perfect week for him – when it mattered the most. Chelsea had beaten Tottenham in the FA Cup semi‑final last Saturday and then Southampton in the league on Tuesday.
“This was a crucial week for us and we finished it very well,” Conte said. “We all know there is a part of the season that is more important and it is now. To win away against Everton is not easy and it was a great result but we have to continue in this way – go step by step. If we don’t win against Middlesbrough, then we lose this great win.
“We showed great enthusiasm and great patience. We are having a great season but, to become a fantastic season, we must win [the title]. What did I say to my players afterwards? The message was not with words but great hugs.”
Tottenham’s victory ensured that they will finish above Arsenal for the first time in 22 years, although Pochettino was unconcerned by the achievement. He has broader targets – chiefly, the desire to chase down Chelsea.
Arsène Wenger could lament bad defending on the goals his team conceded and an overall timidity.
“We played a little bit with a restricted attitude and I felt we lacked a little bit of freedom to play, and desire to hurt them more than we did,” the Arsenal manager said. “We had clearcut chances in the first half and we didn’t take them well – not with enough conviction and not with enough determination.
“On the first goal, it looked like we were not out-numbered. We had six against two or three. It was soft defending. Then, we conceded straight away a soft penalty and the 2-0 was a shock.”
Tottenham are 17 points ahead of their neighbours and Wenger was asked whether it was a fair reflection of the gap between the clubs.
“Look, the points are the points,” he replied. “They do not come from heaven. You earn them on the pitch. It will be very difficult now for us to finish in the top four but we have to fight.”
Jürgen Klopp has said it is more difficult for a central defender at Liverpool, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester City than at other Premier League teams as he warned his players to prepare for another physical test at Watford on Monday.
Liverpool head to Vicarage Road in a Champions League qualifying position but needing a response to last Sunday’s home defeat by Crystal Palace, their first loss in eight matches. Sam Allardyce, the Palace manager, deliberately targeted Liverpool’s susceptibility at set pieces and space behind their full-backs in the 2-1 win, claiming Klopp’s style left Dejan Lovren and Joël Matip exposed in the heart of defence.
The Liverpool manager accepts defenders have a difficult task given the offensive nature of his team but counter-pressing, if executed correctly, should provide adequate protection. He explained: “If you defend deep then you have a lot of legs and help around, that’s how it is. The first goal last week, this is not an excuse, but it can happen with a misjudgment and a counterattack. A centre-half for a top team is playing with a lot of space at the back. That’s how Tottenham act, how City act and sometimes how Arsenal act. Manchester United are for sure a bit different.
“You have to involve a lot of players in offensive things usually, you cannot be offensive with just two players in a counterattack when there are already eight from the other team in their own half or box. So of course it is more difficult. If we go for a centre-half we need to know how he acts in big spaces, but on the other side centre-halves can feel pretty alone in certain moments if we don’t react the right way after losing the ball. That is why counter-pressing is a pretty useful skill.”
Klopp claimed the best is yet to come from Lovren after the Croatia international signed a new four-year contract last week but the German is keen to reinforce in central defence this summer, with Southampton’s Virgil van Dijk the leading target.
The Liverpool manager added: “I saw a lot of centre-halves, that is how it is. We cannot go for a centre-half from Bayern Munich, for example – they have similar problems to us – but you have to imagine how a defender will react in different situations. All clubs defend in some moments high. It is about being football smart and they have to make the right decision in the right moment, stepping back and all that stuff.
“For example, Palace’s second goal was after a set piece but it came after we lost the ball in the buildup. If the defender steps back in this moment then for a few seconds there could be help from somewhere. It was two wrong decisions in one situation. But defending high is not a problem, it is only a different job.”
Adam Lallana is in contention for his first appearance since 26 March, having recovered from a thigh injury suffered on England duty. “We have had a lot of physical games in the last few weeks with a lot of challenges and we know we need to be ready for this game,” said Klopp, whose team have faced Palace, West Bromwich Albion and Stoke City in their past three matches.
Olly Woodburn personifies the Exeter way. The wing joined the Chiefs last season after failing to establish himself at Bath and has become a try-scoring fixture in a side whose whole continues to add up to even more than the sum of its parts.
His two tries against Northampton took him to 10 in this season’s Premiership at the end of the week, when the supporters’ club had voted him player of the year, and extended the Chiefs’ unbeaten league run to 14 matches – three short of Leicester’s record in the top flight.
While their rivals make headlines with marquee international signings, Exeter find something in players other clubs do not detect and so strong have they become as a group that even a side as gnarled and cohesive as Northampton buckled under their persistent pressure.
The victory, which was achieved with a bonus- point try for a record eighth successive league match, took Exeter level on points with the leaders Wasps before the final round of fixtures on Saturday when the Chiefs play at Gloucester and Wasps entertain Saracens.
Gloucester and Saracens are likely to rest players before European finals the following Friday and Saturday respectively, but Exeter are well placed for a home tie in the play-offs having recovered strongly from a poor start to the season when they won just two of their first seven fixtures.
“We have a lot to play for at Gloucester,” Woodburn said. “They are a big team with awesome players who have reached a European final. They are a good attacking unit and will throw everything at us. It will be another test but we have a big work rate and are putting in huge performances, even if it feels it is getting harder every game.
“I am playing with a smile on my face and it is a good place to be. When I arrived here, I did not see myself winning an award. I just wanted to expand my game and be at a club where I could compete for a place in the team. It has been a brilliant season for me, but I could not do it without my team-mates. Life is really good.”
Northampton scored the first and last tries of the match but in between were forced to defend as Exeter kept the ball in hand and probed for weak spots. They found none initially, but the Saints eventually wilted under pressure so incessant that should the Premiership final this season be a repeat of the showdown against Saracens last May, Exeter are unlikely to freeze again in the opening half as they did on that occasion.
“Last season was different because we started quickly and we got through the latter stages,” the Exeter assistant coach, Ali Hepher, said. “This year there is more of a calmness to the group. We are building nicely and we are comfortable with where we are. All we are saying to the guys is to keep it simple and put in massive actions after massive actions. If we continue to do that, we will come through well.”
Northampton have become used to preparing for the play-offs this decade, but their focus is on a Champions Cup place next season. They face one of their top-six rivals Harlequins at Franklin’s Gardens on Saturday at the end of a season in which they have a 50% home record in the league.
They will be without their goal-kicker Stephen Myler, but George North and Louis Picamoles are expected to return while their Lions second-row Courtney Lawes will this week following the concussion return to play protocol.
“We defended well against Exeter, but it took its toll and everyone is now talking about the Quins game,” said the Saints’ director of rugby, Jim Mallinder.
At the end of this vigorous but ultimately quite straightforward 2-0 victory for Mauricio Pochettino’s focused and muscular Tottenham Hotspur team a large knot of home fans refused to leave their seats, staying instead to dance and sing and hug, gorging themselves on the moment.
Half an hour later they were still crammed into the exit walkways of this disintegrating stadium and still singing, appropriately enough, about Dele Alli, who scored the opening goal, who was spiky and incisive when it mattered, and whose partnership with Harry Kane embodied, on the day and beyond, the striking gulf in personnel, recruitment and method between these two teams.
It will be tempting to portray this as a moment of baton-passing, power-shift and all the rest. In reality the most striking aspect of a one-sided game was the ease with which Arsenal were beaten, how readily the stitches burst, a battle that was won in the preceding details over the last three years of contrasting surge and drive.
Tottenham are a fearsome prospect at home, in every sense of the word. On a balmy day in north London, this skintight ground with its rattly, touchline-close crowd seemed to nourish their aggression and drive. Set against this relentlessly draining test of will and stamina there was a brutal clarity to Arsenal’s congealed status in the late-Wenger years, the end result a team without a centre, a sweet spot, an obvious functioning heart.
By contrast Spurs, of course, have Alli and Kane. Back in the days of mandatory 4-4-2 the orthodoxy in English football stated that all football teams are made up of partnerships, the pitch squared off into an old-style dance-hall of jitterbugging couples.
In Pochettino’s hard-running system partnerships are once again key, not just tactically but in intangible things such as spirit and verve and will to win. Alli and Kane do not just occupy the same areas; they carry this team forward from the front, embodying both that smothering style and the seductive youth and vigour of this group of maniacal workaholics. Alli has been the best attacking player in the Premier League over the last two months, a wonderful talent with room to grow and bloom and fill out from here. At his best he plays off the cuff and with a strut. Here he was quiet for long periods. With 55 minutes gone Alli had completed nine passes and touched the ball only 18 times.
No matter, as he was there lurking in just the right place to smack the ball down and into the corner after fine work from Christian Eriksen, who wiggled in and out of the tiniest pocket to find a shot that was palmed out by Peter Cech.
At which point enter Kane, who thrives in these derbies and is now the first player to score in five of them in a row. Three minutes after the opener Kane ran at Gabriel with the ball, issuing a formal paper RSVP invitation for the Brazilian to extend his leg hopefully inside the area, which was duly noted and accepted. Kane got up and spanked the penalty low into the corner. Alli-Kane: 2-0, game over – except there was still another half-hour of this, another half-hour to contemplate the contrast between the two teams. Arsenal’s own version of Alli-Kane here was probably Olivier Giroud and Alexis Sánchez, although it is hard to imagine a greater contrast on the day or two elite attacking players who seem less suited.
With half an hour gone at White Hart Lane Sánchez had wriggled his way past Kieran Trippier and produced a brilliant, zingy little half-volley back‑heel that fizzed through Toby Alderweireld’s legs to find Giroud on the left wing. Giroud took the ball, looked up and poked it straight into the middle of a small posse of defenders, who seemed surprised but grateful to have it returned. Sánchez turned and walked back towards the halfway line, fists bunched at his sides, with just a slight whitening of the knuckles. At times his exasperation is understandable.
Giroud was not just static here, he was inert, stopped, gummed to the spot. Arsenal’s first-choice orthodox centre-forward is often described as providing a “physical presence” but it is hard to imagine a less bruising, less imposing, more glossily soft-touch 6ft 3in professional athlete in a contact sport. For footballers of this standard, being shunted around the penalty area by Giroud must be a bit like being whipped senseless with a wet tissue or battered into unconsciousness with a fondant eclair. Giroud was signed to replace Robin van Persie, before Kane the last high-class centre-forward in north London. His continued presence in this team is an indicator of the decay and decline that Tottenham laid bare here, just as his opposite number’s consistent scoring under pressure has been decisive through the spring.
And so 22 years down the line Spurs’ quest to finish ahead of Wenger-era Arsenal is finally realised. Under Pochettino they have a better defence, better midfield, a better game plan, a more visceral sense of unity, more visible boardroom support, a plan – any plan – when it comes to recruitment and a more obvious air of desperation to succeed. Above all they have Alli and Kane, the most effective attacking duo in the division, visible emblem of a well-matched team and beyond that of a club whose rise is built on care in its component parts and finely wrought working details.
Serge Pauwels’ first career win counted double as the Belgian ended a long wait for victory by taking the final stage of the Tour de Yorkshire and with it the general classification.
The 33-year-old Belgian attacked off the top of the Côte de Wigtwizzle, the second of four categorised climbs in the final 22 kilometres of the 194.5km stage from Bradford to Fox Valley near Sheffield, and stayed away to cross the line just in front of his Dimension Data team-mate Omar Fraile.
“It feels a bit strange,” Pauwels said after standing on the podium in front of huge crowds gathered at the finish. “It is the first time I have had my hands in the air. But I think people would not really be surprised that I take a win because I have been quite close. Last year I was second, third, fourth, everything except a win, and now I get two wins at the same time which makes it more special.”
Having launched his attack in the final metres of the climb, Pauwels pulled clear on the following descent and built a lead of 30 seconds on the testing Côte de Ewden Height – but he would need all of it as the chasing pack came back at him on the final climb of the day out of Midhopestones.
“I could see on the climbs nobody was really able to make a difference so that’s why I tried in the descent,” he said.
He made it over the top of the final climb with an advantage of nine seconds and was unaware of that gap dropping to five seconds at one point as the team director, Roger Hammond, told him over the radio not to look back. Fortunately for Pauwels, only Fraile could bridge over and the Spaniard was not about to deny his team-mate a first victory.
“The first thing I saw was his front wheel and I recognised it as we have the same wheels,” Pauwels said. “At first I thought the whole group is there but he took over and said: ‘Come on, let’s go, it’s for you.”’
Jonathan Hivert of Direct-Energie was third, with BMC’s Brent Bookwalter fourth and the Londoner Tao Geoghegan Hart – making his debut on British roads for Team Sky – fifth.
It was a thrilling finish to a brute of a stage which took the riders over eight categorised climbs and more than 3,500m of ascending, while passing the massive crowds for which this race, only three editions old, has quickly become famous.
Key in getting Pauwels in position for the win was his team-mate, the Yorkshireman Scott Thwaites, who got to race in his home town as the stage passed through Burley in Wharfedale early in the day.
“Everybody contributed to the win and to get a one-two is really impressive,” Thwaites said. “There were a lot of dangerous teams so it was down to me to control the group and I managed to slim it down to 25 riders, which was ideal.
“It’s a great feeling to be in a massive race. I’m thankful to everyone who came and spurred me on. I had butterflies riding in front of my own village.”
A seven-man breakaway featuring Mathew Hayman, Orica-Scott’s 2016 Paris-Roubaix winner, animated the early part of the day and led the pack over the first four climbs – including the famous cobbles of Haworth and the imposing Shibden Wall, where there was barely room for more than one bike at a time as crowds mobbed the roads.
“It doesn’t get any better,” Team Sky’s Ian Stannard said of the atmosphere. “It’s on a par with the Tour de France. It’s amazing to see in a home race, the public really getting behind it. It makes you proud when you’re riding your bike.”
Numbers given to organisers by the police estimated Sunday’s crowd alone at one million fans, taking the total for the weekend of racing to 2.2 million – setting a new standard for the young race.
“I’ve ridden all around the world,” Pauwels said. “If I would make a top three of the most amazing crowds, of course you have the Belgian Classics, the Basque people who are amazing, but I think the people here in Yorkshire for sure are also top three.
“They are very enthusiastic and the roads are full. It’s incredible, something you almost never see anywhere else.”
Lulu Stanford had the kind of day that made her want to shout on Sunday when reaching her most successful time in the saddle yet. The promising 19-year-old apprentice rode a notable double at Salisbury that took her career winners’ total to 30.
Not only the owners and trainers of the pair of winners were delighted, so were punters. Her victories from 200 career rides lifted the profit to a £1 level stake on all her mounts to £22 . She has now won on three of her last five rides. Of her 30 victories, 21 of those had been at all-weather tracks – but this season her skills have been more recognised on turf.
Her first winner on Sunday was on Daddies Girl, who drifted in the betting to 7-1, but Stanford went into the lead on the filly two furlongs from home and they held the challenge of the hot favourite, Take Shelter. Daddies Girl’s trainer, Rod Millman, said: “Lulu’s great, isn’t she? She has ridden four winners for me this season and is an old head on young shoulders. When she arrives in the paddock she knows all about the other horses in the race, she does her homework.”
Millman, who trains at Cullompton, Devon, added: “Lulu clearly has the skill to ride horses and win on them. She’s great value for her 5lb claim.”
Later on the card Stanford was back in the winner’s enclosure aboard Cheval Blanche, this time for the Newmarket trainer Michael Bell, to whom she is apprenticed. Some serious punters showed their faith in Stanford, her mount being backed from 100-30 into 9-4 favouritism. The grey filly made most of the running and asserted in the closing stages to win comfortably from the Ryan Moore-ridden second favourite Aristocratic.
Bell spoke on Sunday night about how he has known Stanford since she was a curly-headed five-year-old. “She was brought up on ponies. These days she’s totally dedicated. I’d even say she has tunnel vision, entirely focused on her career – and she is doing extremely well.”
Stanford added: “I’ve had great support from Mr Bell, who has put me on some really nice horses. Mr Millman and several other trainers have been great to me too. It might be fantasising, but my ambition is to eventually be riding Group-class horses.”
In Ireland, Jessica Harrington – fresh from her highly successful Punchestown jumps festival – saddled Red Label to win on the Flat at Gowran Park. The colt was having his first run since moving to Harrington’s stable from Luca Cumani.
“I’m delighted with Red Label,” the trainer said. “I was worried about the ground. I’ve only had him a month, and I’m just learning about him. He’s a nice horse and we will see where we go from here.”
Bath
2.15 Cee Jay 2.50 Sfumato 3.25 Secretfact 4.00 Ghepardo 4.35 Sellingallthetime 5.10 The Quarterjack 5.40 I’Vgotthepower
Beverley
1.55 Noble Manners 2.30 Thrifty 3.05 Stringybark Creek 3.40 Faintly 4.15 Theos Lolly 4.50 Jacbequick 5.25 Mistress Quickly 5.55 Tagur
Kempton
1.45 New Agenda 2.20 Forever Field 2.55 Criq Rock 3.30 Al Alfa 4.05 Ballymountain Boy (nap) 4.40 Minella Rebellion 5.15 Artifice Sivola 5.45 Bob’s Boy
Warwick
1.30 Bedrock 2.05 Pique Rock 2.40 Vocaliser (nb) 3.15 Psychocandy 3.50 Midtech Valentine 4.25 Minella Style 5.00 Blackfire
Windsor
2.00 Dynamic Girl 2.35 Goring 3.10 Cool Team 3.45 Highland Colori 4.20 Cape Banjo 4.55 Sternrubin 5.30 Team Meeting
One image above all lingers in the memory from Anthony Joshua’s world heavyweight title victory over Wladimir Klitschko at Wembley Stadium on Saturday night. It is of the 27-year-old from Watford glowering at his crumpled opponent in a pose strikingly reminiscent of Muhammad Ali after he had knocked out Sonny Liston.
Ali quickly went from having Liston to the world at his feet. Joshua’s entourage and assorted experts lined up on Sunday to predict that he would soon follow suit.
After his 11th-round victory Joshua was serenaded by the 90,000 crowd and excitable television executives from the US cable rivals HBO and Showtime. But it was his promoter, Eddie Hearn, who made the sweetest music.
“Anthony is now the biggest star in British sport, and the biggest star in world boxing,” he exclaimed, before promising to take Joshua into new markets, including China, the Middle East and Africa. Already he had held talks about a fight at the Bird’s Nest stadium in Beijing.
Perhaps the only one not getting carried away was Joshua himself. “I want to be a champion outside the ring first and foremost,” he told reporters long after Saturday night had given way to Sunday morning. “Without the belts, or the boxing, I am a good man. I am a family man. I don’t flip tables and punch people in press conferences. Boxing is a tough sport, I just try to express myself in the ring.”
It is that humility – as well as Joshua’s exceptional physical and sporting ability – that has made him the overwhelming favourite for the BBC’s Sports Personality of the Year award and had sponsors beating a path to his door. Already he has endorsements from Under Armour and Jaguar and nearly a dozen other brands. Mark Borkowski, a PR and brand expert, expects that number to mushroom. “He represents hope,” says Borkowski. “That is why people buy into him. He also looks great – and he has a massive female following. His appeal goes far beyond boxing’s hardcore.”
There is something else, too. “He is also very honest, and people like that transparency,” adds Borkowski. “After Saturday’s fight he made a big deal of praising Klitschko, and also said he hoped young kids watching would want to emulate and surpass what he had achieved. I don’t think those were media-trained soundbites. You are not going to remember a script after 11 rounds of someone trying to knock you out.
“Britain hasn’t had a gentleman boxer since Henry Cooper or Frank Bruno – but Joshua is a gentleman fighter. This is someone who could unify the belts but also get a whole new audience into boxing.”
The days when millions tuned into ITV in the 1980s and 1990s to watch the likes of Nigel Benn, Chris Eubank and “Prince” Naseem Hamed fight were thought to be gone for ever. But the sport is slowly percolating back into the mainstream. One recent survey found that while 20% of millennials say they do not follow sport at all – an answer given by only 9% of over-35s – a growing number do like boxing.
There will be those who will argue – with some justification – that the gory sight of two people trying to knock each other into oblivion is primitive and queasy; especially with what we know now about the long-term dangers of concussion in sport.
That argument has been harder to refute in the past year. Not only has the promising welterweight Mike Towell lost his life after being knocked down in a title eliminator but two others – Nick Blackwell and Eduard Gutknecht – have been in comas following serious beatings.
Yet Joshua knows better than most that boxing seems to have a unique power, particularly among working-class kids, to improve health and turn lives around. He was born to Nigerian immigrants, who split when he was four or five, and showed immense sporting prowess when he was young, running 60 seconds for the 400m as a 12-year-old.
Yet, having left school at 16, he fell in with wrong people and started partying, drinking and smoking and getting into trouble. A year later he was facing a custodial sentence for fighting but was instead given an ankle tag. It was at that point he went to Finchley amateur boxing club with his cousin Ileyemi, intending to do a keep-fit class and lift weights. Instead he developed a taste for boxing and was quickly promoted to the GB Olympic squad.
There were bumps along the way – in 2010 he was arrested and given 100 hours of community service for being in possession of 8oz of cannabis, while wearing his Team GB tracksuit – but slowly the discipline of boxing turned his life around. He won a world championship silver in 2011, an Olympic gold at London 2012 and his first world title in 2016. He is estimated to have made £10m from Saturday’s fight, yet when he is not training in Sheffield he lives with his mum, Yeta Odusanya, a social worker, in a small, ex-local authority house in Golders Green, north-west London.
Inevitably there will be questions about whether Joshua can stay humble and grounded. But Hearn has no doubt of his class – inside or outside the ring. “Anthony always delivers,” he says. “He’s like gold dust. This is a golden time for boxing and for Anthony. He is about to go to stratospheric.”
After he defeated Liston, Ali hollered loudly about shaking up the world. Times have changed since then, of course, and no boxer will ever have the impact “the greatest” did.
But, in his own quiet way, Joshua hopes to have everyone talking about the heavyweight champion of the world again.
Deep in the bowels of Launceston’s York Park on Saturday afternoon, Alastair Clarkson was radiating discontent. He already has the look of a coach who has tired of losing, but losing is surely not tired of Hawthorn.

The essayist Adam Gopnik once wrote about Paul McCartney: “All artists have fat years and leaner ones after. They just hope that the lean years don’t turn into a famine, and that there’s enough seed corn left over for sweet if stressed fruit. To have had a rich harvest more or less guarantees a comedown later. The issue is the grace with which you fall.”
There was no grace in the Hawk’s biggest loss in Launceston. If anything, the 75-point margin against a fervent Saints outfit flattered a team that lacked for both effort and structure. No confidence. No zip. No pressure.

The statistics from Saturday’s game read like the typical laundry list of issues for a side that has won just once in six weeks of football. Crushed in the contested ball. Smashed in the tackle count. Hammered on the scoreboard.
Without “catastrophic change”, which Clarkson warned might soon be necessary, Hawthorn’s story does not build from here – it evaporates. The Hawks’ first-round pick in the 2017 draft is headed to St Kilda, while its second-rounder has been gifted to the Gold Coast Suns. Hawthorn does have a second-round pick from Greater Western Sydney, but as things currently stand, the Giants – currently second only to a frighteningly good Adelaide in what appears to be a premiership race of two – will go to the draft table twice before the Hawks make their first selection.
This dilemma is further compounded if you take it as read that the value of players such as Luke Breust, James Sicily, and Jack Gunston is dropping by the day, trading back into the draft is not as easy a task as it may have been seven months ago. And given he turns 33 this June, the day is not too far away when Hawthorn’s leadership and culture has a Hodge-shaped hole.
While there were pundits who prophesied a drop-off from the Hawks, this season has been something else entirely. Only a month ago it was still difficult to convince yourself that the Hawthorn malaise would be a sustained one. But today you don’t even have to make any pretence of an argument anymore. The Hawthorn era is done and 2017, if not catastrophic, is at the very least a shitstorm.
And the Hawks have familiar company. Also selling disappointment in 2017 is their modern-day rivals, the Sydney Swans. The Sydney era has not reaped a Hawthorn harvest, but it does include the 2012 premiership, which is what this whole mad enterprise is all about. Since then, the Swans have played in 12 finals, including a further two grand finals.
Nobody predicted the Swans’ run would end like this – that they would start the season with six losses. It was difficult to find anyone who had them outside the top four. But after a colourless 19-point loss to Carlton where Alex Silvagni shaded Lance Franklin, anything you can say about Sydney for 2017 is bound to sound like a eulogy.
By any measure, particularly premiership points, it is an incredible fall from grace – particularly when you consider Saturday’s side featured 14 players who played in last year’s premiership decider.
Like Hawthorn, what would concern Sydney fans most is that the Swans appear to be playing without heart, at least not one that pumps blood. Speaking after Saturday’s game, coach John Longmire said the “brand” of game Sydney was playing was unacceptable.
“It takes a long time to develop a brand and a reputation as a team and it doesn’t take long to lose that,” said Longmire, his face is pushed down after another defeat. “At the moment we’re not playing anywhere near the football we can and should play.”
However, any forecast of a lean period turning into famine for Sydney is tempered by a list that includes Isaac Heeney, Will Hayward, Callum Mills and Tom Papley, all aged 21 or under. A likely top five draft pick and the potential bounty of the Sydney Swans Academy also function as a standing rebuke to the fatalism, gloom and portent of “catastrophic change” at Glenferrie.
Sydney’s youngsters can at least be relied upon to provide something that Hawthorn sorely lacks, particularly with Cyril Rioli’s absence, and that is spark. It is something the Saints had on Saturday, and what a desperate Collingwood rediscovered on Sunday. It is seen in Adelaide everywhere you look.
One mentions this not to knock a wilted Hawthorn or celebrate the end of what is arguably the greatest era of the modern game, but to point out that the energy – the spark – to regenerate and reinvigorate is so much more difficult after the fat years. With little “seed corn” it may be beyond even the greatest coach of his generation.
To paraphrase McCartney, Hawthorn’s troubles look as though they’re here to stay… for a while at least.
Maybe those fans who scrawled the signs about Aaron Woods and his Wests Tigers team-mates are just immature. Maybe they crave the “glow” of celebrity-by-association, the fleeting “fame” of seeing one’s “work” on TV.
Maybe they see themselves as rebels or rabble-rousers, as honest-to-goodness “Aussies” calling it as they see it, unadorned, inveterate, un-PC, unapologetic. Maybe they’re the Australian version of Trump voters.
Or maybe they are just Wests Tigers “fans” who actually, truly believe Woods is a “dog” and James Tedesco “is a cock”, and Mitchell Moses is “slimy” because they will play for other football clubs in 2018. And while it’s probably healthier not to delve too deeply into the minds of such self-hating wretches, let’s call this for what it is.
Fans who crave “loyalty” from players and then boo them when they sign with another club or who write nasty messages on signs about players whose futures lie elsewhere are idiots. And to expect loyalty from a footy player in the era of the salary cap, given the constraints that puts a footy club under, is an ill-conceived demand.
Cam Smith and Billy Slater will stay one club players, and Cooper Cronk might too if he doesn’t take the money Des Hasler has freed up at Belmore by punting Josh Reynolds. And there’s the rub: footy is a business. It’s a show business.
Yet some fans seem not to understand that; they actually believe players are playing solely for their club’s jumper and for their personal gratification and feeling of belonging to the tribe and what it represents to them.
That said, the vast majority of fans do get it. They might not necessarily like it, and why would they? Players like Reynolds and Woods, people love these guys. But they understand.
They get that the salary cap has been around as long as there has been a National Rugby League (coming up to 20 years) and that it puts a ceiling on how much a club can spend on players. The cap’s purpose is to even up the competition by spreading the wealth.
How a club manages that wealth in order to trot out the best XVII on any given day and give themselves a legitimate shot at the title in the narrow window when they can keep all their best players in their prime, is a whole other story.
Melbourne Storm do it. Brisbane Broncos do it. Canterbury Bulldogs do it. Wests Tigers do not do it. And if the fans want to vent their spleens they should write silly signs about the chairman Marina Go, CEO Justin Pascoe and the greater Wests Tigers board which admittedly inherited a mess, but have failed to clean it up.
So much of club success is down to a board growing, training and recruiting elite players, and then keeping them. Because as soon as you’re a winning club, everyone wants your players. It’s a market much like real estate, where the better your player/house, the more people want it, the more it’s worth. It’s really that simple.
Wests have played this game poorly and have lost their three best players. And some fans are blaming the players, which is their prerogative. But they shouldn’t boo them for “disloyalty”, for taking more money than their club were willing to give them.
And what about the man, Woods? He’s a local junior who grew up around the corner from Leichhardt Oval. He has the Leichhardt post-code tattooed on his buttock. He drinks tinnies with the bloke in the scoreboard which says “2040 forever”. And for Woods that won’t ever change. Just as Reynolds will always be a Belmore boy.
Woods and Reynolds have given everything of themselves for their footy clubs, playing 132 and 129 games respectively. They’re leaders in the club and community. They’re good people. And to so traduce their legacy in this way is bordering on Trump Rally stuff. It’s idiocy.
Bath have endured a curious campaign but, with one round to go, they are still arithmetically in the hunt for play-off participation. If the odds remain against them pipping Leicester for the fourth and final spot, they showed enough vim and vigour in this six-try demolition of their West Country rivals Gloucester to guarantee European Champions’ Cup rugby next season and confound some of their more jaundiced supporters.
A hat-trick of tries for their fit-again Wales and Lions No8, Taulupe Faletau, was the centrepiece of an increasingly assured team performance, a far cry from the Parisian horror show that cost them another date with Gloucester in Friday week’s Challenge Cup final. Interestingly, too, it came after the director of rugby, Todd Blackadder, omitted his Lions centre Jonathan Joseph and picked Rhys Priestland to start at fly-half ahead of George Ford.
It may be too little, too late in terms of fourth place – Leicester will require only a losing bonus point at Worcester to trump a four-try Bath win at Sale – but Blackadder duly received the response he wanted from his squad after their loss of composure against Stade Français.
While he insisted afterwards that Joseph and the Leicester-bound Ford needed a rest after a bruising few weeks, he also made it clear the whole squad need to find more consistency if Bath want to become title winners again. “We want this club to be a top-four club every single year and, when we don’t achieve that, questions have to be asked,” he said. “We can’t be happy with fifth or sixth every year, it’s not good enough.”
Gloucester, in contrast, still looked to be feeling the effects of their epic European semi-final victory at La Rochelle and David Humphreys, their director of rugby, made no attempt to deny their spectacular implosion from 10-8 down at half-time. “That 10-15 minutes after half-time was probably as bad as we’ve played in the last three years,” said Humphreys, whose side can now qualify for next season’s Champions’s Cup only via the European play‑offs which will also feature a Top 14 side and two teams from the Pro12. “It was embarrassing.”
Television pictures also suggested his reserve hooker Motu Matu’u was allowed to return to the field having been knocked cold early in the second half. Humphreys said the player had successfully passed his head injury assessment and had been diagnosed as suffering a temporary stinger rather than anything more serious but the authorities may opt to review the footage.
Happily Bath’s second-half display was rather more uplifting, even if the home side’s win was a relative one. Both these clubs have again trailed in behind Exeter and it is now four seasons since Gloucester finished above the Chiefs. They could yet prove awkward opponents for Rob Baxter’s side at Kingsholm in Saturday’s final round of the regular season but, as with Bath, they continue to be prone to huge fluctuations in form.
It was a perverse kind of day from the outset: a May bank holiday fixture with damp, blustery weather borrowed from winter and more Gloucester-born forwards in Bath’s front five than among their opposite numbers. Shaun Knight and Elliott Stooke, both former Cherry and White squad members, found themselves in blue, black and white and there were more Welsh internationals on the field – seven in total – than English ones.
Priestland and James Hook duly exchanged penalties as if it were Scarlets versus Ospreys and, from Kahn Fotuali’i’s clever chip, the former Newport Gwent Dragon Faletau scored the game’s opening try. It was something of a turn-up when Henry Trinder’s cross-kick found the lurking Jonny May wide on the right and an Englishman finally made it on to the scoresheet seven minutes before the break. It was only a brief interlude, Aled Brew finishing strongly on the left four minutes after the restart to extend the home lead to 17-8 and five minutes later the Welsh-born but English-reared centre Max Clark surged gloriously clear from 40m out. If Bath were missing Joseph and Ford, playing in his final home game for Bath, it was not instantly apparent.
Even a string of replacements could not save Gloucester, with Bath’s fresh legs proving the more influential. If Fotuali’i’s no-look pass to the recently arrived Robbie Fruean was a nice touch there was a genuine hunger about the way the New Zealander stormed past Charlie Sharples’s attempted tackle to ensure the try bonus point that keeps Bath’s play-off hopes theoretically alive. Faletau’s second and third tries in the 72nd and 77th minutes inflicted even more damage and left Blackadder upbeat despite belated late scores for May and David Halaifonua. “Taulupe was just unbelievable,” said the former All Black captain. “That was a world-class player right there.”
Bath T Homer; Watson (Fruean, 56), Clark, Tapuai (Ford, 69), Brew; Priestland (co-capt), Fotuali’i (Cook, 73); Catt (Obano, 61), Brooker (Batty, 48), Knight (Palma‑Newport, 61), Charteris, Stooke (Attwood, 57‑64), Garvey (Ellis, 49), Louw (co-capt; Attwood, 71), Faletau.
Tries Faletau 3, Brew, Clark, Fruean Cons Priestland 4 Pens Priestland 2.
Gloucester Hook; May, Trinder (Twelvetrees, 51), Atkinson, Halaifonua; Burns (Sharples, 63), Heinz (Laidlaw, 50); Hohneck (McAllister, 45), Hibbard (Matu’u, 45-62, 71), Afoa (C Knight, 69), Galarza (Savage, 59), Thrush, Moriarty, Rowan (Ludlow, 59), Morgan.
Tries May 2, Halaifonua Con Laidlaw Pen Hook.
Referee M Carley (RFU). Attendance 14,509.
For Tottenham Hotspur it was a bittersweet day. Yet they have waited so long for this kind of one-upmanship against Arsenal, the team they always measure themselves against, it would be impolite to start with the negatives when, finally, they can remind themselves what it will feel like to conclude the season looking down on the old enemy.
It has been 22 years since the last occasion and, to put that into context, the scorer of their first goal, Dele Alli, had not even been born during that troubled season, 1994-95, for Arsenal when George Graham was sacked and Stewart Houston’s side came in 12th, five places below the team from White Hart Lane. Spurs have now won nine games in a row and, in the process, they have moved 17 points ahead of a side that have only five more matches to go. This season, there will be no St Totteringham’s Day. The schadenfreude belongs the other way round now and, though it has felt inevitable for some time, there is a neat symmetry for those jubilant Spurs fans that Arsenal happened to be the opponents on the day it was confirmed.
Against all that, the downside came in the form of what had happened earlier in the day and the message Chelsea obstinately delivered in their 3-0 victory at Everton, the game most observers reckoned might be the toughest assignment of their run-in. Spurs played like a team who still believe they can catch and overhaul the side at the top of the table and another win at West Ham United on Friday would close the gap to a solitary point. Yet Chelsea, once again, looked formidable opponents and it might not have been a coincidence that Mauricio Pochettino’s side took a while to get going, having started their latest victory shortly after learning the news from Goodison.
Once they shook their heads clear, however, they were so dominant during the second half that, in the far corner, Arsenal’s fans could be seen heading away in droves long before the final whistle. Once again, their team had come up short and another set of crowing supporters could be heard chanting “we want you to stay” in Wenger’s direction. The Frenchman will almost certainly grant them their wish at a time when many of his own club’s supporters are campaigning for precisely the opposite. These are the kind of occasions that will harden opinion against him – a fifth defeat in their last six league fixtures away from the Emirates Stadium, with 15 goals conceded – and the Arsenal manager must have been pained by his team’s inadequacies.
It could conceivably have been even worse if the referee, Michael Oliver, had not given Alexis Sánchez the benefit of the doubt after a handball in the penalty area during the period of second-half pressure when the home side repeatedly threatened Petr Cech’s goal and Wenger’s players seemed to be in the grip of a collective meltdown.
By that stage Harry Kane had already scored one penalty, courtesy of Gabriel’s naive trip on the striker, and there were the telltale signs that Arsenal had reverted to all their bad habits: flimsy at the back, short of leadership and not enough players taking responsibility. For Alli’s goal, there were half a dozen players in red and white shirts in proximity inside the penalty area. Not one made a challenge as Christian Eriksen weaved past Nacho Monreal and Laurent Koscielny to create the first shooting opportunity. The rebound fell to Alli and, again, the inaction of his opponents would have been staggering if this was not such a repetitive failure of Wenger’s sides in the modern era.
To begin with, Arsenal had looked reasonably competent, quick to the ball and hustling their opponents, with their front players under instructions not to allow Spurs to play out from the back. It was a clever ploy, forcing the home side into mistakes, but Spurs would still have been entitled to reach half-time believing they should have been in front. Eriksen had skimmed the crossbar with the best opportunity of the opening 45 minutes. Alli had headed another decent chance wide and Jan Vertonghen, letting fly with a diagonal shot from 20 yards, forced a fine save from Cech, one of the few Arsenal players to emerge with any credit.
It was not until the second half, though, that Spurs started to play with the authority that comes from having not lost a league fixture on their own ground all season. At 2-0, Vertonghen tried his luck again and Cech clawed away a curling shot that was heading towards the top corner. Spurs attacked with great purpose, accumulating 20 shots throughout the game, and there was never any genuine sense their opponents would save themselves after that three-minute spell when both goals were scored. It was only the second time Arsenal have failed to score on the last 37 occasions these sides have met in the league and, as has become the norm, Sánchez and Mesut Özil quickly faded once the game started to drift away from them.
Spurs have now won 77 points, seven more than they managed last season, with four games still to play and, as Pochettino pointed out, their ambitions are not restricted to finishing above Arsenal. His is a team that should be looking up, not down. The only problem is Chelsea – and the refusal of the league leaders to show any real vulnerability.
To judge by the celebrations at the end the Chelsea players and fans think it is all over. After this it probably is. Not just because Everton seemed to represent the only serious obstacle to a smooth run-in, but because Chelsea already have the look of champions.
The very best sides, it is often said, have a hundred different ways of winning a match.
While this was billed as a showdown between Diego Costa and Romelu Lukaku, perhaps even as an audition for the latter in the event of Chelsea having to look around for a new striker in the summer, it turned out to be nothing of the sort. The two leading scorers for their respective clubs both ended up having undistinguished games by their normal high standards.
Lukaku in particular will be disappointed at drawing a blank at Goodison for the first time in 2017 when his former club were providing the opposition, while Costa wasted his only clear chance of the game in the first half and found opportunities limited because Eden Hazard was so closely watched by Idrissa Gueye.
The Everton midfielder had obviously been told to stick like glue to Chelsea’s main attacking inspiration and he took the instruction so literally it was hard to believe he lasted until the 78th minute before picking up a booking, so often did he succeed in pulling the Chelsea man to the floor.
Without penetration from Costa or Hazard the visitors were struggling to make their superiority count for over an hour until the deadlock was broken by a player who has just gone eight games without a goal. One would never have guessed from the authority with which Pedro found the target from outside the area and suddenly Everton’s eight home wins on the bounce and Ronald Koeman’s slightly rash boast that only Barcelona have scored more goals at home this season began to look inadequate.
“We did a good job until Pedro put us behind but Chelsea have the ability to win games even when they are not playing at their highest level,” Koeman said, neatly summing up what separates champions from the rest. “They have that quality and, once they are ahead, they know how to kill the game.”
Though Everton hit a post in the opening minutes they never really looked like answering Pedro’s strike and inevitably left gaps at the back as they tried to send more men forward in search of an equaliser.
Koeman was pleased with Gueye’s marking job on Hazard, claiming Everton had succeeded in neutralising one of Chelsea’s strengths, though in point of fact that statement held true for only 78 minutes. Once Gueye went into the book for one desperate lunge too many at Hazard, the Chelsea player took the free-kick himself and successfully outwitted Maarten Stekelenburg with a disguised shot that grazed Gueye and the goalkeeper could not hold at the near post. Job done, or rather completed by Gary Cahill’s knee, Hazard was withdrawn and Antonio Conte can do so little wrong at the moment that two of his substitutes managed to combine for the third goal.
“We are having a great season,” Conte said, a little unnecessarily. “Pedro is having a fantastic season but don’t forget he used to play for Barcelona, so perhaps we should expect goals of that quality. He’s a great player.”
Few would disagree, though Pedro was finding game time difficult to come by before Conte’s arrival at Stamford Bridge.
Now it is Willian who is missing out yet even in the few minutes he was allowed, the Brazilian scored another goal to add to the couple he managed at Wembley last week, and right at the end he missed a good chance to put Chelsea four up.
“It is not easy leaving such good players out,” Conte said, with reference to Willian and Cesc Fàbregas. He seems to have found a way to manage it, though, as champion coaches generally do. Conte was generous to his beaten opponents, he knew they had put together eight straight wins at Goodison and even complimented Everton on the success of their gameplan. Yet, though marking Hazard out of the game made Chelsea wait a little longer for victory, Everton’s strategy did not stifle their opponents to the extent that José Mourinho managed with a similar tactic when Manchester United recently beat the leaders.
Chelsea were unrecognisable that day, though the hiccup now appears to be over. In breaking out of their shackles on Merseyside, Conte’s side showed they have what it takes to finish on top. It must have made daunting viewing not just for Tottenham but for Arsenal, who face Chelsea in the FA Cup final on 27 May.
Any team capable of stopping Conte and his players achieving the double this season will have to be a very good one. The celebrations that started in front of the Bullens Road stand at the end of this game will surely get louder and rowdier in the coming weeks.
Sheikh Ahmad al-Fahad al-Sabah has resigned from all his football positions, including the Fifa council, after the latest wave of corruption allegations in the sport.
The release of court documents in the wake of the Asian Football Confederation official Richard Lai pleading guilty to bribery led to Ahmad being implicated. He was not named but papers referred to someone who at “various times was a high-ranking official of Fifa, the Kuwait Football Association and the Olympic Council of Asia”.
Ahmad denies any wrongdoing but has released a statement announcing he is stepping down from his various positions within the sport.
“With regards to alleged illegal payments to Richard Lai, I can only refer to my previous statement and vigorously deny any wrongdoing,” he said. “I intend to work with all relevant authorities to disprove these for me totally surprising allegations.
“However, I do not want these allegations to create divisions or distract attention from the upcoming AFC and Fifa congresses. Therefore, after careful consideration, I have decided it is in the best interests of Fifa and the AFC for me to withdraw my candidacy for the Fifa council and resign from my current football positions.
“I have been honoured to serve on the Fifa council, Fifa reform committee and AFC for the last two years and I will continue to support the family of football once these allegations have been disproved.”
Ahmad remains a real power-broker within Olympic circles. He heads up the Olympic Council of Asia and has done so since 1991, while he was instrumental in Thomas Bach’s International Olympic Committee presidential campaign and that of Gianni Infantino for the Fifa presidency.
Lai, a senior figure at the AFC, was suspended by Fifa for 90 days on Friday after he pleaded guilty in a New York court to giving and taking bribes. Lai admitted taking more than $950,000 (£735,000) in bribes. The AFC also placed a provisional suspension on him.
Lai’s case is particularly significant as it represents the first time the US-led investigation into football-related corruption has extended beyond the Americas. It is also the Department of Justice’s first new guilty plea for a year, which suggests the inquiry is not being wound down just yet, as some close observers have speculated.
But most important of all are the details of Lai’s case as they clearly implicate the former Fifa vice-president and AFC president Mohamed Bin Hammam. The Qatari was banned for life by Fifa in 2011 for allegedly trying to bribe members of the Caribbean Football Union to vote for him against the incumbent, Sepp Blatter, in the upcoming Fifa presidential elections.
With Bin Hammam out of the frame, Blatter would eventually win a fourth term unopposed. The Qatari would overturn that life ban at the court of arbitration for sport in 2012, only to receive another Fifa life ban for AFC-related corruption.
Lai pleaded guilty to receiving $100,000 from an individual the DoJ described as “an official of the AFC who was then running for the Fifa presidency” in exchange for his vote.
The DoJ statement continues by saying Lai also received more than $850,000 between 2009 and 2014 from a “faction of soccer officials in the AFC region” for his support.
The acting US attorney for the Eastern District of New York, William F Sweeney Jr, said: “Today’s plea marks another important step in our ongoing effort to root out corruption in international soccer. The defendant abused the trust placed in him as a soccer official in order to line his own pockets, and now he will be held to account.
“The defendant’s breach of trust was particularly significant given his position as a member of the Fifa audit and compliance committee, which must play an important and independent role if corruption within Fifa is to be eliminated.”
In total, the US investigation has led to more than 40 football officials and businessmen being charged, with 21 now pleading guilty and paying huge fines. Lai, for example, agreed to forfeit $1.1m.
Official retribution for the ugly scenes that led to the abandonment of Sporting Club de Bastia’s French league match against Lyon two weeks ago was swift and will almost certainly get more brutal. Corsica’s only top-flight club are bottom of Ligue 1 and members of the Bastia 1905 ultra group may have sealed the club’s descent into the second tier by twice attacking assorted Lyon players before the game was called off. Bastia were ordered to play Saturday’s home game against Rennes behind closed doors at the neutral Stade Parsemain in Fos‑sur‑Mer on the French mainland, where they maintained their hopes of survival with a 1-0 win over the Breton side. However, further sanctions – including a likely points deduction – will soon be announced, and the section of Bastia’s Stade de Furiani that houses away fans has also been closed indefinitely.
The less-than-warm welcome afforded Lyon’s players is far from the only blot on the Bastia hardcore’s copybook in a season repeatedly marred by trouble. During their opening match, Paris Saint‑Germain’s Lucas Moura was hit by an object thrown from the crowd while preparing to take a corner. More recently the club were sanctioned when the Nice striker Mario Balotelli was racially abused by home fans. In a season when the breathtaking attacking splendour of Monaco has helped win the French league no end of new admirers, the top flight’s comparatively poverty-stricken basement dwellers seem intent on repulsing these same people with attacks of a more violent kind.
It hasn’t always been this way. In the 1977-78 Uefa Cup, Bastia beat Sporting Lisbon, Newcastle United, Torino, Carl Zeiss Jena and Grasshopper Zürich en route to a two-leg final in which victory over PSV Eindhoven proved a step too far but the home game was made into a film by Jacques Tati. Three years later, they secured a trophy with a 2-1 French Cup final win over a Saint-Étienne team featuring Michel Platini, with the famous Cameroon international Roger Milla scoring their winner.
Like many other football clubs, they have also been touched by tragedy. On 5 May 1992 a temporary stand erected at their Furiani stadium to accommodate extra supporters for a cup semi-final against Marseille collapsed shortly before kick-off, killing 18 people and seriously injuring many more. It was later proven in court that grasping club executives were responsible for the catastrophe. As a mark of respect, Bastia no longer play matches on 5 May. This year, that particular date falls just a few days before the club are due to discover just how harsh their punishment for the violence against Lyon will be.
It is important to reiterate that these troublemakers represent a minority of Bastia fans, albeit a sizeable one. Many of their fellow supporters have long been appalled by their antics. Bastia’s rise in the 1970s coincided with the emergence of the sometimes violent Corsican nationalist movement, which has led the club to become a symbol of the fight against la métropole. In the first round of French league matches played after the Paris terrorist attacks of November 2015, Bastia entertained their more cosmopolitan but less successful rivals GFC Ajaccio in a Corsican derby and a giant banner reading “Ripuaste in Pace” (Rest in Peace) was spread across the pitch before a minute’s applause and a rendition of La Marseillaise. Despite Corsica’s fractious relationship with the French government, the national anthem was not drowned out by jeers similar to those that had greeted it before the 2002 French Cup final. The reason for this respectful silence? Members of Bastia 1905 refused to enter the stadium until after it was played.
While a lack of investment, poor performances and the prospect of relegation have not helped lighten the increasingly toxic mood at the Stade de Furiani, these identity issues and an often derided inferiority complex are perceived to fuel Bastia 1905’s appetite for self-destruction. The Moor’s head borrowed from the flag of Corsica features on the Bastia club badge and has come to symbolise the outsider status in which this increasingly infamous faction of their supporters revel. In the flag’s original incarnation, the bandana around the Moor’s head covered his eyes but it was moved upwards by the Corsican leader Pasquale Paoli to symbolise his people’s liberation. Although Bastia 1905 are far from the only troublemakers to occasionally bring French football into disrepute, their club’s hierarchy has previously been accused of turning a blind eye to their antics and affording them a sense of entitlement that could soon reach a very abrupt end. In the face of appalling publicity following the attacks on Lyon’s players, the club announced measures intended to put a stop to the hooliganism that has stained their season, including a stadium ban for anyone identified as having been involved. Criminal charges are also expected to be brought against those identified from TV footage, with anyone found guilty facing three-to-five years in jail.
“The Sporting Club of Bastia and the vast majority of its supporters refuse to be held hostage by a minority of people and will fight in order to preserve the values of the club and the place that is its among the elite,” declared a club statement, which made all the right noises even if some found it unconvincing. The feeling among the majority of Bastia fans, those who booed and whistled the pitch invaders who have landed their troubled club in so much hot water, is that it is too little too late; the sound of a stable door being slammed shut long after the occupant has bolted.
Paul Clement accused Marcus Rashford of winning Manchester United a penalty by “deceiving” the referee, Neil Swarbrick, in the 1-1 draw with Swansea City at Old Trafford on Sunday.
In the final moments of the first half Rashford went to ground when Swansea’s goalkeeper, Lukasz Fabianski, dived at the forward’s feet, the United player looking for the contact. Wayne Rooney scored from the spot and, though Gylfi Sigurdsson’s 79th-minute free-kick allowed justice to be done, Clement was unhappy with Rashford and said his goalkeeper was “furious”.
Swansea’s manager said: “My players clearly thought it wasn’t a penalty and seeing the replay the player [Rashford] has deceived the referee. It’s clear. There’s no other way to look at it. The ref seemed to have some doubts because there was a big delay and I spoke to him afterwards and he said he was only receiving confirmation from his assistants. It was a mistake. He went down way before there was contact.
“Lukasz was furious. He’s said: ‘I’ve gone down to get hands on the ball, I can see I can’t get it, I’ve come away from it and he’s gone down before the contact.’”
Pushed over whether he would describe Rashford’s act as cheating, Clement said: “No, I’m not saying cheat. I’m saying deceived. It’s the word I’ve chosen. I would use cheat another time. On this occasion I’m saying he deceived him.”
José Mourinho said he did not see the incident. “I don’t have a view because I didn’t watch and I have Marcus’s opinion and he said that the goalkeeper touched him,” United’s manager said.
On a day when Luke Shaw and Eric Bailly both went off injured, increasing United’s casualty list to eight, Mourinho said: “We lost players and we lost points so, yes, today was a bad day. We did not look tired and exhausted. We are tired and exhausted.
“I don’t know about the [fresh] injuries. Luke Shaw’s must be a big injury because to leave the pitch after 10 minutes I am expecting a very big injury.”
Mourinho will have Paul Pogba and the suspended Marouane Fellaini back for Thursday’s Europa League semi-final first leg at Celta Vigo. He has previously urged Phil Jones and Chris Smalling to return early from their injuries.
“I prefer not to speak about Jones and Smalling,” Mourinho said. “I prefer to speak about Juan Mata giving everything to be available today [as a replacement]. I am grateful for that.”
The manager suggested United’s fans could have helped their team more. “Did the supporters know [about player fatigue]? Because if they did they would be more supportive of the players. At the moment we cannot walk from the bed to the toilet and not break a leg.”
The draw set a United club record of 25 league games unbeaten. Of the Europa League match Mourinho said: “We will give everything on Thursday. That is sure. Whether we go to the final or not doesn’t matter. I am really happy with the guys.”
Swansea remain third-bottom but closed to two points behind Hull City with three matches remaining. “It’s still very tight,” Clement said. “We are just concentrating on doing the best we can. Our form over the past two games has been good. We have to keep this going until the very last game of the season.”
Gabriel Jesus saved Pep Guardiola from severe embarrassment on Teesside, the young Brazilian’s late header earning Manchester City a scarcely deserved point as Middlesbrough finally remembered how to score.
It left Guardiola’s side clinging on to fourth place, a point in front of Manchester United and Steve Agnew’s Boro agonising about what might have been. Although arithmetically still in with a chance of salvation, realistically they are all but doomed to relegation, with this mini-revival proving horribly tantalising.
“We deserved to win,” Guardiola said, to mild surprise. “They created two chances and were fighting to survive but we were the better team.” If City’s manager was frustrated to see his hopes of finishing third receding after “a most difficult game”, home fans felt slightly cheated, their overall sense of the afternoon’s cruelty exacerbated by the slightly contentious circumstances surrounding the award of the penalty for City’s first equaliser. Not that the consequent disappointment should detract from Boro’s best performance of the season.
Few could have predicted it when, with 45 seconds gone, Jesus very nearly scored from close range, the newly fit forward just failing to get a sufficiently strong contact on a ball sent whizzing across the box by Sergio Agüero. Little did anyone know that would represent their most menacing first-half moment as their back three failed to provide the desired attacking springboard.
Agnew is a Guardiola disciple and enthuses that he has “admired him and his philosophy for years” but such fandom was temporarily parked as Boro’s interim manager urged his side forward. This bold strategy soon saw Álvaro Negredo slicing a Fabio centre across goal. It seemed the ball required only the slightest of touches to be diverted beyond Willy Caballero but no one was in quite the right place at quite the right time.
If that could be an epitaph for Boro’s season, Agnew’s players were not minded to surrender. Closing City down industriously, concentrating assiduously and winning their fair share of tackles, they ensured Guardiola had more than the capriciously swirling wind to worry about.
Persistent gusts left the tail of City manager’s long black, designer-cut raincoat flapping almost as frantically as his arms. With his side yet to test Brad Guzan, he had genuine reason for anxiety. It proved justified when Negredo gave Boro the lead against his former club. George Friend’s interception precipitated a quick break which concluded with Stewart Downing cutting back, Friend dummying and Negredo, who seemed to slip as he shaped to shoot, directing a slightly scuffed left-foot shot in off a post.
The time had come for Guardiola to press a few tactical buttons and, sure enough, a recalibrated City emerged for the second period reconfigured with a back four and Kevin De Bruyne relocated to the left. With his side continuing to malfunction and still without a shot on target, only four minutes of the second half had elapsed before Guardiola hauled Aleix García and Gaël Clichy off, introducing Leroy Sané and Raheem Sterling.
Initially this infusion of pace and width had limited effect: despite City monopolising possession and attacking in numbers, Boro held creditably firm until Kevin Friend awarded that controversial penalty.
Bursting into the box at speed, Sané accelerated into Marten de Roon, who looked to be merely standing his ground, before the winger collapsed dramatically. Given that there was clearly contact, possibly exaggerated by Sané conveniently leaving a leg trailing behind him, the referee’s decision seemed understandable but it was hard to see what the midfielder could have done to avoid it.
Boro protested long and vociferously but, once calm was restored, Agüero sent Guzan the wrong way courtesy of an accomplished right-footed kick lifted into the top corner. “There’s a sense of injustice,” Agnew said. “The player went down very easily. It wasn’t a penalty. Marten’s a very intelligent boy and he’s not one for making contact in the penalty area. The referee didn’t have a clear view but, if you give them, you’ve got to be 100 per cent certain.”
Undeterred, though, Boro again took the lead, exposing City’s defensive vulnerabilities in the process. When Adama Traoré’s pace won a free-kick and Caballero could only parry Downing’s subtly curved delivery, his defenders, and Vincent Kompany in particular, failed to cope with the fallout. It meant Negredo was able to propel the ball across the box for Calum Chambers, excellent at both ends, to squeeze it home.
With the decibel level hitting new heights the Riverside was rocking only for such reawakened optimism to be cruelly punctured by a swiftly taken free-kick, a chipped Agüero cross and Jesus’s header. “I think we should have seen the game out,” said Agnew, who might just have earned himself a chance to manage Boro in the Championship. “But I’m so proud of the lads.”
Antonio Conte would not say it but his body language had already confessed. When the final whistle sounded on a pivotal win at Goodison Park, the Chelsea manager strode across the pitch to conduct celebrations before a jubilant away support. He leapt on Thibaut Courtois’s back. He bounced up and down in front of the Bullens Road stand. He led the applause. He knew. The Premier League title is in sight.
“A great win, a great win,” was as far as the Italian coach would go when pressed on the wider significance of victory at Everton. On paper this had been the toughest assignment left for Chelsea in their pursuit of the crown. On the pitch for 66 minutes it proved as much, with Ronald Koeman’s side holding firm and the contest delicately poised. Diego Costa and Eden Hazard had both missed inviting chances in the first half. The combustible centre-forward’s irritation was growing against a team that had won its last eight matches on home soil. Then Pedro let fly from 20 yards and the ball was in the top corner of Maarten Stekelenburg’s goal before the Everton keeper knew it. They had found a way, as champions always do.
Victory, and a first clean sheet in eight games, rewarded a patient, organised and clinical display from Conte’s team, who added gloss to the scoreline with a scrambled goal from Gary Cahill plus a well‑worked one from the substitute Willian. Idrissa Gueye had man-marked his former Lille team-mate Hazard to good effect throughout but Chelsea’s array of creative options ensured they were not contained. “Compare the offensive parts of the two teams today,” the Everton manager requested. “That was the biggest difference and the reason we lost.”
His resources stretched, Koeman was again reliant on youth and sought to unsettle Chelsea’s three-man defence with a forward trio of Dominic Calvert‑Lewin, Romelu Lukaku and Enner Valencia. Chelsea called on experience and a winner’s mentality and subdued the hosts before punishing them with three second-half strikes. Conte praised his substitutes Willian and Cesc Fàbregas for their professionalism and willingness to contribute, not sulk, when not in the starting lineup. “Great men as well as fantastic players,” the Chelsea manager said.
There was an intensity to both teams to begin with, one that would not be sustained until the visitors turned on the style in the final stages, with Calvert-Lewin hitting a post in the second minute after being released by Ross Barkley. The rebound rolled invitingly for Lukaku to convert against his past and potentially future club but Cahill intervened with a crucial block. The Chelsea defender soon tested Stekelenburg with a 25-yard drive spilled by the Everton goalkeeper and hacked clear by Ashley Williams. A frenetic, open start suggested a captivating contest ahead but it developed into a physical struggle before Pedro’s decisive intervention.
Chelsea carried their customary, incisive threat on the counterattack but their final delivery often undermined the quality of their approach work. Their rhythm may have been disrupted by knocks to Costa and Hazard inside the opening 20 minutes, the former left feeling his knee following a committed but clean tackle by the excellent Tom Davies, the latter after colliding with the advertising hoardings, but Koeman’s tactics were also a factor.
Gueye shadowed Hazard’s every step as the Everton manager paid the Belgium international the compliment his abilities have merited this season. With Morgan Schneiderlin sidelined for 10 days by a thigh injury and Gueye spending much of his afternoon chasing Hazard to the corner, Everton offered Chelsea the space to dominate central midfield. Thanks largely to the prodigious work-rate of Davies, the visitors were unable to control the contest but still, as so often this season and as is the hallmark of champions, Conte’s team never lost their sense of purpose.
Only Chelsea posed a genuine threat after the restart but they had rarely tested the Everton goalkeeper when Pedro produced a moment of brilliance to break the deadlock. Collecting a pass from Nemanja Matic 25 yards from the Everton goal, the Spanish winger turned Phil Jagielka to his right, then his left before sending an unstoppable drive into the top corner of Stekelenburg’s goal. It was a finish whose impact would have been felt at White Hart Lane.
There was an element of fortune about Chelsea’s second when Hazard, having been fouled by Gueye as he sprinted down the left, drove the resulting free-kick low into the Everton six-yard box. The delivery took a slight deflection off Gueye and Stekelenburg could only palm the ball on to Cahill, who scored via his knee.
Job done, Hazard was replaced by Willian with five minutes remaining and the Brazilian sealed what was ultimately a comfortable win seconds later. Costa released Fàbregas to the byline and the midfielder cut the ball back perfectly for Willian to beat Stekelenburg with a routine finish. Conte’s roar of delight could be heard around Goodison on the final whistle. “We’re gonna win the league,” his supporters sang. It is hard to disagree now.
Anthony Joshua lingered in the ring at Wembley Stadium as midnight struck on Sunday morning, bathing in the afterglow of the famous night that saw him write his name indelibly into his country’s rich fistic lore. It had been more than an hour since the 27-year-old from Watford had come off the canvas to violently dispense of Wladimir Klitschko in the most gripping heavyweight title contest since the first bout between Evander Holyfield and Mike Tyson more than a generation ago, yet the former Olympic champion was content to delay his retreat to the post‑fight news conference, instead holding court with the throngs of well‑wishers who refused to disperse, to the chagrin of the harried stadium stewards. It was as if he did not want the night to end. Who could blame him?
None of the 90,000 fans who stuffed Wembley to capacity will soon forget what they saw on Saturday night, when the sport’s biggest rising star graduated from untested paper champion to the division’s alpha dog amid a spine‑tingling atmosphere unlike any boxing has seen in years. The night traced an emotional crescendo replete with sights and sounds that will endure, not least the formidable roar of a well‑lubricated stadium crowd bellowing Gala’s Freed from Desire and the traditional Sweet Caroline in full throat, many of whom paid in the hundreds for upper‑deck seats where the fight itself was a rumour.
And then, somehow, the main event managed to exceed the ample hype that preceded it. By the time Joshua detonated that right uppercut from hell’s heart on Klitschko’s chin in the 11th round, the largest crowd for a boxing match in Britain since before the second world war had been whipped into a white-hot wall of sound.
This was an event that only the United Kingdom could engender, and never more so than today in the thick of a golden age for British boxing, underwritten by the nation’s 11 current world champions. It was a masterstroke of promotion and event production helmed by Eddie Hearn, the 37‑year‑old architect behind Joshua’s rise. And if the early returns on the record-breaking pay-per-view numbers claimed by the Matchroom Sport group managing director are accurate, it raises the question: why ever would Joshua fight anywhere else?
For decades Las Vegas has represented boxing’s most aspirational and coveted platform – where the world’s best fighters contest for the richest purses against a glitzy backdrop of plunging necklines and immaculately tailored suits. But as the sport has fallen on hard times in the United States, from the amateur to the professional ranks, there is evidence that Vegas is no longer the economic necessity it once was. That is doubly true for a handsome, charismatic and highly marketable fighter such as Joshua, who has sponsorship deals in place with 13 brands and brought home a career-high minimum purse of £10m for the win on Saturday – a figure likely to swell based on pay-per-view receipts.
Perhaps the most lucrative near-term fight for Joshua is a unification bout with Deontay Wilder, the undefeated American knockout machine who holds the WBC title (and who observed from ringside on Saturday as a member of Sky’s commentary team). But the Alabaman’s domestic profile hardly scratches the surface of Joshua’s in England. Why risk that fight underperforming before a Vegas crowd when Saturday’s event offers a proof of concept strong enough to persuade even Wilder’s famously cautious handlers to bring him abroad?
Joshua’s promoter believes his fighter is at the outset of a decade-long reign atop the division and made it clear that Las Vegas is only one part of a broader strategy. “We’re only going to box twice a year,” Hearn said at Wembley. “I think the plan, rather than just keep going in the UK, is to explore new markets, break new markets and boundaries, which include America but more importantly China, the Middle East and Africa. They’re markets we want to move into and dominate as well over that period. All of a sudden if we boxed [Kubrat] Pulev, who’s our mandatory, the British public would be disappointed. So therefore that could be a fight you could take on the road.”
Joshua had already owned the IBF’s version of the fractured heavyweight title by virtue of last year’s knockout of someone named Charles Martin, a well-meaning Californian who himself had claimed it when his opponent was injured on a slip early in their match for the vacant belt. But Saturday’s gut-check moment was the night when Joshua truly became a world champion.
The sport’s flagship division has long served as a bellwether for the popularity of prize-fighting at large. As the heavyweights go, they say, so does boxing. Joshua’s emergence may signal the dawn of an exciting new era in the weight class – with a bevy of tantalising matchups to be made involving Wilder, Luis Ortiz, Joseph Parker, Andy Ruiz and, lest we forget, the lineal champion in Tyson Fury. But even more notably, it could be remembered as the night a sport’s centre of gravity crossed the pond.
Anthony Joshua is about to embark on what he calls phase three of his journey and, whatever his repeated declarations that he is in boxing for fun not money, over the next decade he could bank as much as £500m, drawing him alongside Floyd Mayweather as the biggest earner in the history of his precarious sport.
After his dramatic late stoppage of Wladimir Klitschko in front of 90,000 fans at Wembley on Saturday night, all things seem possible for the young heavyweight champion, now indisputably the world’s best. Afterwards in the bowels of the national stadium, the 27-year-old was unnervingly cool about his precocious achievement and what awaits him.
After getting up in the sixth and battering the long-time dominator of the division into unwilling submission 35 seconds from the end of the 11th, the one-time street boy from Watford, who still lives at home with his mother and prides himself on staying close to his roots, owns the IBF and IBO titles, as well as the WBA’s “super” version. These are bargaining chips he can use to dominate the division and the sport for as long as he remains undefeated.
His manager, Eddie Hearn, told the Guardian: “I spoke to him in camp three weeks ago and he said: ‘Yeah, I want 10 more years of this.’ We might run out of opponents. But there are so many different boxes to tick.
“We’re only going to box twice a year now. The plan, rather than just to keep going in the UK, is to break new markets around the world which includes, most importantly, China and the Middle East and Africa. They’re markets that we want to move into and dominate over that period. I’m not saying it’s going to be next – but over that period.
“We’ve smashed the pay-per-view records [probably around the 1.6 million mark for Sky Box Office] and now he’s looking at everyone, including Deontay Wilder [the WBC champion, who was ringside on Saturday]. The problem is that he’s just done that in his 19th fight and everybody’s going to expect him to be in tough, tough fights.
“The fights are tough. He could easily have lost tonight. It wasn’t like he just breezed through it. You’ve got to be doing more over these 10 years. If he boxed [Kubrat] Pulev, which is our mandatory, the British public would be disappointed. So, therefore, that could be a fight we take on the road.
“You can’t constantly keep going back to the same market asking people to pay [for a lower-level fight]. The IBF will order a mandatory [the Bulgarian Pulev] at some point, the WBA will have a mandatory [perhaps Joseph Parker] at some point. I would also like to remind them that they have the biggest star in world boxing as the heavyweight champion.
“He knows he’s an inspiration. He talks very strongly about taking the title around the world. We’re already making big progress in China. And America – although I don’t believe they’re building stars there at the moment, of course it’s a market we need to be in – and we’ve been in it tonight, through Showtime and HBO.” It was first the time the American sports networks have shared a world title fight since Mayweather fought Manny Pacquiao.
“The response, as my phone and executives tell me, has been absolutely off the charts. It’s just the beginning for us in the States.
“He’ll have a nice two or three months off now. I don’t think he’ll box again until between September and December. It’s more likely to be at the Millennium Stadium – if it’s in the UK. We can’t return to the O2 and Manchester Arena. That’s why we might take it to another territory.
“We’ve probably just completed phase two [of the career strategy]. There are four phases: one, he won the title, two he unified the heavyweight championship of the world.
“I can’t tell you his expectations and what he wants to achieve – not just in boxing, but outside of boxing, as a person and as a fighter. So, that was like winning the world heavyweight championship tonight, to beat Wladimir Klitschko to unify the title – in his 19th professional fight.
“Phase three is all about the big heavyweight championship fights. It’s very difficult because, you have a fight like tonight – I’d call it a legacy fight or a defining fight – but he’s still a rookie. Phase four? I’m not sure.”
It all could have unravelled in the sixth round of one of the best world heavyweight fights in living memory. Joshua had Klitschko down in the fifth and very nearly out, but the Ukrainian dredged up something from his 41-year-old heart and had the Londoner reeling badly at the bell. A punch-perfect long right cross put Joshua down in the sixth and all thoughts of phases looked briefly irrelevant, until the lion in him roared again.
As Joshua explained: “I tried to take him out [in the fifth]. When I hurt someone, I know I can get them. I was searching – Voom! Voom! – and I was just skimming his face.
“It does take a lot of energy out of you to hit someone hard and hurt them. I was trying to connect a bit too eagerly and I used a lot of energy.
“You’ve got to be smart in this game. It’s a 12-round fight. This ain’t like an amateur fight. I got through the fifth round and said to myself: ‘You’re in a bad place now, but you’re going to bounce back.’ So then I tried to recover so I could step up the gas again in the later rounds. That was the gameplan in my mind. I was definitely tired but I knew that I could recover.”
Not many fighters would have got up from the leveller Joshua shipped in the sixth but, after cleverly husbanding his resources – and aided by Klitschko’s innate caution – he worked his way back into the contest to finish the job.
An uppercut, which he had used to good effect all night, stunned Klitschko at the start of the 11th and Joshua hunted him relentlessly. He put him down in his own corner, decked him with a left hook along the ropes and then battered him to a standing halt just above his own trainer, Robert McCracken.
The trainer has been with him through most of his journey, amateur and pro. Few know him better and he observed: “Anthony finished him off in devastating style. Wladimir has been a tremendous fighter, arguably the best heavyweight in the past decade. I’m not sure what he wants to do now.
“It’s just great to see a British heavyweight like Anthony come through. I sat here after Carl Froch boxed George Groves three years ago, and it was memorable tonight. There’s a real boost to British boxing and Anthony’s certainly at the forefront of that. He will have taken a lot more out of Wladimir than the other way round, that’s for sure. Anthony will get better and better. He learned a lot from that. He tightened up at times, he loaded up too much on occasion, Klitschko got to him early. But he regrouped, he stayed calm. He got through it, then the last four rounds he started to come alive and his finishing round in the 11th was fantastic.”
As Joshua said: “You get knocked down, you get up. That’s what life is about. If you keep on going, you can come out on top – not just in a fight. It shows you what life’s about. You just keep on going, no matter how many times you get put down.”
Nerveless at the death in the Russian Grand Prix, Valtteri Bottas finally proved that Formula One has a new iceman. The promise he has long shown was given full rein in a competitive car at Sochi and exploited with almost complete precision. The lineage of Keke Rosberg, Mika Hakkinen and Kimi Raikkonen has been joined by another Finn proving the country punches well above its weight in F1 winners.
He has challenged before and he has been found wanting but under the huge pressure of being chased down by the four-times world champion Sebastian Vettel, there was cold steel in Bottas’s performance and a first F1 win for the driver who had taken up racing after passing a karting track by chance was the reward.
“When I drive there is not much emotion in there,” he said. “I’m just trying to get everything right and get every lap, every corner perfect. All the questions, all the speculation, No2 driver and so on, it doesn’t get to me. It doesn’t matter.”
He was a hugely popular winner, congratulated immediately by his team-mate Lewis Hamilton and Vettel, who was sporting in defeat. “He’s done a superb job, it’s his day and he deserves to win because he drove better than all the rest of us,” said the German.
On a one-year contract with Mercedes, Bottas has a lot to prove this season if he is to be retained and this was the best possible case he could make to do so. Drafted in at short notice to replace Nico Rosberg in the close season, he has had to come up to speed at the team fast. His previous best results were two second places at the British and German Grands Prix in 2014 for Williams, while a spin behind the safety car in Shanghai raised questions about whether, now in a championship-contending car, he could make the step up. It appears that he has answered them admirably.
His victory, ahead of Raikkonen in third and Hamilton, who struggled for performance, in fourth, was executed clinically in what was at times a fascinating but not spectacular race. There were little overtaking after the grid had cleared the first braking zone at turn two on lap one at the Sochi Autodrom, a circuit that does not lend itself to cars following one another. This is a factor that will once again raise concerns over the difficulties in passing imposed by the new regulations that had been somewhat allayed after the first three rounds.
The result extends Vettel’s lead over Hamilton in the title fight to 13 points. Hamilton was uncharacteristically not able to extract what he needed from his car all weekend, first with bringing his tyres into the operating window and then with balance during qualifying. During the race he was unable to make any inroads beyond fourth with temperature issues affecting his car.
“It was a very tough weekend, I just wasn’t quick enough,” he said. “I’ve never had cooling issues like that before but it meant I was out of the race from the get-go. I’m just hopeful that I can pick up the pace at the next race. I need to understand where the speed was this weekend, where I went wrong with the setup, and then come back fighting. There is still a long way to go. I am still second in the championship, so it is not the end of the world, but of course I need to recover the pace that I had previously because it was a very, very unusual weekend.”
Mercedes did overtake Ferrari by one point in the constructors’ championship but, with the fight for the title likely to be nip and tuck, these were points Hamilton could ill afford to drop. Mercedes’s executive director, Toto Wolff, acknowledged they had problems. “We didn’t give him the car to do the job this weekend,” he said. “It is a priority for us to sort this out before Barcelona.”
Bottas, however, had just the setup he wanted and made one of the passes that counted. The Finn enjoyed an exceptional start from behind the two Ferraris, launching off the line and then making the most of the advantage the Mercedes enjoys in straight-line speed. He passed Vettel on the drag down turn two and had the lead through the corner. With the pace over Ferrari it was up to the Finn hold his place and his nerve.
That he could do so was evident early on, having nailed the restart after an early safety car and he led into the pit stops. Ferrari opted to leave Vettel out for a further seven laps, gambling that fresher rubber at the end would enable him to catch and pass Bottas.
Vettel set off in chase and the demands on the Finn became clear. On lap 38 Bottas went wide at turn 13 and locked up, giving his left front a flat spot. The error cost him time and put the wind into Vettel’s sails, and another mistake would likely have cost him the race as the final 10 laps provided a gripping finale. Overtaking may have been lacking but there was at least a dramatic denouement.
Bottas has 80 starts under his belt and is not intimidated by going wheel to wheel in the company of the world champions. Yet the first win is always the hardest and making it to the flag in front was not a given but there was determination and tenacity here as well as nerve enough to seal it. Vettel closed but he had run out of laps.
“There was this strange opportunity for me that happened in the winter that made this possible,” said Bottas. “You never know in life what’s going to happen and it was a great opportunity.” It was one he seized wholeheartedly, as Wolff acknowledged. “It shows to me that the choice we made at the start of the season was the right one,” he said.Max Verstappen was fifth in the Red Bull but his team-mate Daniel Ricciardo suffered a right-rear brake fire and had to retire on lap six. The Force Indias of Sergio Pérez and Esteban Ocon were sixth and seventh respectively; Nico Hülkenberg did well to put his Renault into eighth with the Williams of Felipe Massa ninth and the Toro Rosso of Carlos Sainz Jr in 10th.
McLaren suffered yet another blow in an already woeful season in which they have still not scored any points. Fernando Alonso, who has still yet to complete a race in 2017, suffered a hybrid problem while on the grid and he stopped his car on the formation lap unable to take any further part. His team-mate Stoffel Vandoorne finished 14th.
Phil Parkinson celebrated a third promotion as a Football League manager by returning Bolton Wanderers to the Championship at the first time of asking.
At the end of a season during which players and staff have been paid late on more than one occasion, and the club dealt with a winding-up petition over an unpaid £5m loan – a date in the high court has been set for 22 May – Parkinson’s team sealed the runners-up spot in League One with a final-day performance that summed up their spirit in adversity.
“We’ve had lots of things thrown at us through the year and we’ve just kept our heads down and concentrated on what we had to do week in, week out and we’ve got our rewards in the end,” Parkinson said. “We’ve had some troubled times but what a day this is for Bolton.
“What’s key is that this has got to be the start of something building the club back up again. We’re absolutely ecstatic; Sheffield United took five or six years to get out of this division. It’s a tough league to get out of.”
Having previously won promotions with Colchester and Bradford, Parkinson surprised some with his decision to flit across the Pennines last summer after a failed play-off bid with the Yorkshire club, to inherit a team who finished bottom in the Championship in 2015-16, 19 points adrift of safety.
If unity has been an integral component, so too has quality at crucial junctures and goals from Jem Karacan, David Wheater and Adam le Fondre – a trio with Premier League experience – confirmed that a decline that began with relegation from the top flight five years ago has been halted.
The goalscorers are among a clutch of Wanderers players out of contract in June. Securing their futures will be on the agenda for Parkinson, although chairman Ken Anderson will have other business to attend to first. Anderson agreed a deal to buy co-owner Dean Holdsworth’s shares last month but finance company BluMarble’s legal bid for the Holdsworth-fronted Sports Shield to restructure its loan debt has held that up.
On the field, Bolton took care of their own destiny, making the efforts of Fleetwood – who began two points behind and eight goals worse off – futile.
The opening goal, in the 20th minute, was clinical. Dorian Dervite curved a cross on to Karacan’s boot and a neat finish into the corner left the Peterborough goalkeeper Luke McGee helpless. A healthily populated Macron Stadium – the 22,590 attendance was the second biggest of the season, bettered only by the Chesterfield fixture when it was a fiver a ticket – erupted.
For the second, eight minutes after the restart, Wheater nodded in from Le Fondre’s headed assist. And the hordes of home fans queued up for their celebratory pitch invasion once Le Fondre’s drive made it 3-0 in the 70th minute. With Peterborough undoubtedly as keen for the final whistle – manager Grant McCann later said several of his players would be transfer-listed – there was one false start as a couple of hundred Bolton fans entered the field in injury time.
The referee Scott Duncan restored order to complete the game, and left Fleetwood – whose goalless draw with Port Vale relegated their opponents – to face Bradford in the play-offs. Millwall snuck into sixth with a late winner at Bristol Rovers and will take on pre-Christmas division leaders Scunthorpe over two legs.
Manchester United conceded a late Gylfi Sigurdsson strike as José Mourinho’s side dropped two points in the race for a top-four finish after Wayne Rooney had given them the lead with a questionable penalty.
Rooney needlessly barged Jordan Ayew for the 79th-minute free-kick that Sigurdsson curled into the top right-hand corner. It left David de Gea stationary, the goalkeeper perhaps confused by Ander Herrera, who ran back from the wall on to the line and then out again. To add to a difficult day for United, Luke Shaw and Eric Bailly went off to join a lengthy injury list.
Marcus Rashford may also be the subject of much discussion after his fall for Rooney’s 45th-minute spot-kick came when he looked for contact with the Swansea City goalkeeper Lukasz Fabianski.
Manchester City later drew at Middlesbrough, doubling the frustration for Mourinho as United stay in fifth place and a point behind on 65 points, with Liverpool level with Pep Guardiola’s side. Arsenal remain five points behind United after Sunday’s 2-0 defeat by Tottenham Hotspur, though they have a game in hand. It means that despite a 25th unbeaten Premier League match in a row for Mourinho’s side – a club record – achieving a Champions League berth via a top-four finish is out of their hands and their best hope to qualify may lie with the Europa League.
The United manager said: “We lost players and we lost points, so yes today was bad. You cannot isolate the performance out of the context. This is the ninth match of April – it is not human. We have a squad of 22 that is reduced to 13 or 14 players. The players are very tired.”
United’s success in the EFL Cup by beating Southampton 3-2 in the final and progress in the Europa League – they play at Celta Vigo in the semi-final first leg on Thursday – means the side will play a minimum of 63 matches this season and Mourinho again criticised the fixture scheduling. “It’s a consequence of our success but also of something that you cannot be punished for,” he said.
“Because we play the League Cup final, and then you have to play the [rearranged] game midweek. Why you don’t stop the [Premier League] competition when you play the final? Imagine if we go to the FA Cup semi-finals we will be playing Tottenham last weekend, that Burnley game then would also to be played later. When? When? When will we be playing that game? After the FA Cup final? In June? In next pre-season?”
Mourinho said if they reached the Europa League final he might field a shadow side against Crystal Palace on the final weekend of the season if the match is meaningless.
“It was a blessing that we didn’t play the FA Cup semi-final but we go to the same problem, you are punished for doing well and if we beat Celta, we have the final on the Wednesday and we play against Crystal Palace on the Sunday,” he said. “We play Southampton two days before. So again maybe this result is also a blessing because maybe I can bring Nicky Butt [the academy director] and his team to play against Crystal Palace and hopefully Crystal Palace doesn’t need a game to stay in the division because it would be very bad if they needed the points for us to play with the under-23s.”
If Rooney’s 252nd goal for the club cheered Mourinho what happened before and after would not have done. Shaw was forced off after eight minutes and Bailly just before the hour, each with leg injuries. As the latter became the fourth frontline central defender to be unavailable, Matteo Darmian, a full-back, had to come on and fill in.
Shaw was one of four changes made by Mourinho, who also brought in Rooney, Jesse Lingard and Ashley Young. Antonio Valencia, Darmian and Henrikh Mkhitaryan made way, with Marouane Fellaini suspended.
Paul Clement’s side, who showed one change with Ki Sung-yeung coming in for Leroy Fer, went close to an early goal. Ayew slipped into a gap left by Bailly but his shot was blocked by the French defender, whose attempted clearance ricocheted off Sigurdsson and the ball rolled to safety.
United’s dubious penalty was awarded when Rashford went down going past Fabianski, who kept his hands close to his body. After a noticeable pause the referee Neil Swarbrick pointed to the spot, a decision from the referee that left Fabianski and the rest of his team-mates “furious”, Clement said. Mourinho, on his way to the changing room, watched his side take the lead from the tunnel.
Sigurdsson’s equaliser was merited and Swansea deserve much credit for the way they fought back. The point could be invaluable in their fight against relegation. They remain third bottom, two points behind 17th-placed Hull City.
Mourinho will have Paul Pogba and Fellaini back for the Vigo trip plus a fully fit Juan Mata, who was an unused substitute against Swansea. But he has to think about who will play at centre-back and who can be potential substitutes for the position should he suffer further ill fortune in north-west Spain. He said Phil Jones and Chris Smalling were likely to remain unavailable despite his repeated public entreaties to hurry them back from leg injuries.
Within hours of becoming Sunderland’s manager last July David Moyes boarded a privately chartered plane. He and the team were bound for a French training camp but an ominous grinding noise from the engines and slightly tense looks exchanged among the cabin crew soon confirmed they would be making a detour.
Engine failure had prompted an awkward emergency landing. With the benefit of hindsight, it seemed an ominously emblematic portent of an impending season destined to conclude with the club bumping down hard into the Championship and Moyes’s carefully burnished reputation in ruins.
The harbingers of trouble ahead did not end there. About to touch down at a small Austrian airport before a pre-season friendly, Sunderland’s plane subsequently endured a further drama. With a safe landing deemed impossible, the engines throttled ferociously, the aircraft’s noise pitched violently upwards and a shaken Moyes realised they were, in aviation parlance, “going round”, in other words taking off again.
Although it set lights flashing and alarms buzzing while briefly electrifying the atmosphere in the air traffic control tower, the pilot landed at the second attempt and always seemed to have a potentially high-risk situation under control. In sharp contrast Sunderland’s manager never really had a grip on a toxic Wearside inheritance.
With relegation confirmed by Saturday’s 1-0 home defeat against Bournemouth, Moyes has dropped heavy hints he could well shortly part company with the club and, if so, there will be few tears. The former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad manager may be only 54 but his strangely dated mind-set has arguably exacerbated Sunderland’s long-standing stasis.
If, off the pitch, his observations that two of his African players, Papy Djilobodji and Didier Ndong, required more “Britishness” in their football jarred, on it, Sunderland’s tactics have frequently seemed somewhat binary for a division filled with kaleidoscopic positional rotation and ever shifting systems. Some players reputedly found training slightly old-fashioned.
The impression this may be a man stuck in his ways and reluctant to challenge received wisdoms was reinforced when Moyes claimed teams “don’t win things” with back threes.
Further question marks appeared when a manager who spent £30m last summer set about signing several players he had previously worked with at Everton and Manchester United, including Victor Anichebe and the United loanee Adnan Januzaj.
Having failed properly to address the squad’s chronic lack of pace and creativity, Sunderland’s seventh manager in five turbulent years consistently sidelined the gifted Wahbi Khazri, a playmaking success under Sam Allardyce last spring.
Sunderland fans cannot comprehend why Allardyce’s successor failed to acquire the former France midfielder Yann M’Vila, outstanding on loan last season, and available for £7m from Rubin Kazan, but Moyes was fast discovering that, to echo Kevin Keegan, the job “wasn’t like it said in the brochure”.
If he possibly did not fight hard enough for M’Vila, Sunderland’s dismal recent performances should be assessed in the context of some significant managerial mitigating factors.
Last July Moyes was unaware that Ellis Short, the owner and a man initially delighted to secure the Scot’s services at the fifth attempt, hoped to sell the club. Neither did he appreciate the scale of the debt – currently £110m with wages representing an alarming 78% of turnover.
After a series of gruelling relegation battles Sunderland were an established bottom-five Premier League club shouldering a top-10 wage bill. Had Allardyce, highly impressive on Wearside last season when his sports science regimen raised fitness levels dramatically, not been lured away to, very briefly, coach England, he may conceivably have broken this cycle of struggle. Yet well before his departure the current Crystal Palace manager’s relationship with Short had become severely strained, with the transfer budget a sore point.
Privately Moyes – who considered resigning last autumn – feels similarly let down. His critics, meanwhile, argue that his limitations, particularly in the recruitment sphere, have been horribly exposed by Hull City’s Marco Silva. The Portuguese, after taking over in January and immediately selling his two best players, Robert Snodgrass and Jake Livermore, for a combined £20m, revitalised the club with seven eclectic imports, five on loan.
Whereas Hull recruited cleverly Sunderland have bought very badly in recent years, with only four of their past 47 signings sold on for a profit. Short has acknowledged this in a written apology to supporters.
It dictates that, despite crowds frequently in excess of 45,000 and a very well-appointed training facility – Allardyce said it was the best he had worked at – Sunderland and success have long been strangers.
Whoever is in charge next season will preside over radical change in an unforgiving Championship. With nine senior professionals, including Jan Kirchhoff, John O’Shea and Seb Larsson, out of contract in June a squad overhaul beckons.
A clause in Jermain Defoe’s contract permits the England striker to depart for free but Jordan Pickford’s excellent goalkeeping, featuring some brilliant footwork, will prompt a high-price transfer and the centre-half Lamine Koné should also command a decent fee.
Talented as that trio are few disagree with Moyes’s oft-repeated assertion that, collectively, the squad is “limited”. Whether he should have begun prophesying a relegation battle as early as last August is rather more debatable.
The suspicion is that, somewhere between Stretford and San Sebastián he had lost his old drive, with a certain misplaced complacency filling the gap.
By Saturday evening shock set in as a suddenly chastened manager, his voice barely audible, said “sorry” to Sunderland fans before explaining he would meet Short and resolve his future in the coming days.
“It’s not nice and I feel worse because I’ve let people down; that’s the disappointment,” said Moyes. “But a lot of good managers have been relegated. I’ll use it as something to motivate myself with.”
“How exciting is this?” asked Adam Smith, Sky’s commentator, as Wladimir Klitschko entered the ring a little under four hours into its marathon broadcast from Wembley. “Not just for fight fans, not just for sports fans, but for big event fans around the world!”
Just let that sink in for a moment. People for whom the only good thing about a big event is its bigness. People who approach occasions of all kinds like Norris McWhirter once approached pumpkins: as if they are of little interest unless they are absolutely enormous, at which point they become fascinating not because of their pumpkinness, not for their flavour or their appealing shade of orange or for their decorative‑carving, candle-hosting potential, but for their scale alone.
Sky was determined from the start to appeal to the big-event-fan demographic. At some point they turned a night of boxing once considered so interesting that 90,000 people had been attracted to Wembley to see it into a night of boxing that was interesting because 90,000 people had been attracted to Wembley to see it, a small but very significant semantic switch. Soon after their coverage started at 6pm, a microphone was thrust towards the former boxer Johnny Nelson. “Johnny, can it get bigger than this?” asked the questioner, Leanne Johnson‑Arnison. “It cannot get bigger than this,” confirmed Nelson.
Some time later, not long before their coverage ended, the key questions were still remarkably similar. “Have you ever seen anything quite like this?” the WBC heavyweight champion, Deontay Wilder, was asked, as the big fight neared. “Oh my God, I’ve never seen nothing like this before,” he enthused. “My voice is oozing with excitement. This is amazing right here.”
Sky’s problem was figuring out whether it was reporting the fight, hyping the fight or reporting the hyping of the fight. When its anchor for the evening, Anna Woolhouse, remarked with a vague air of disapproval that there had been “so much hype surrounding this event” it was hard to know whether to nod in agreement or wail in exasperation, given that we were just 16 minutes into a five-hour broadcast and that Woolhouse had already described it as “quite simply the biggest boxing event to ever take place on these shores”, also noting that “90,000 fans will be able to tell future generations that they were here”.
Given the blanket media coverage and Sky’s own schedule-busting commitment to the night – its on-demand offering included no fewer than 12 Joshua-Klitschko-specific preview programmes – it was a wonder its experts had any opinions unmined by the end of the evening. And, sure enough, conversation did eventually dry up, with the director forced to spend the final few minutes before the boxers’ arrival silently panning across a crowd halfheartedly waving their arms to the strains of Neil Diamond.
That concluded a slightly awkward finale to one of sport’s longest preambles. As the big moment neared the stadium filled, and as the fans grew in number so the music they were subjected to grew in volume. This left Woolhouse and her core team of expert analysts, Nelson and Tony Bellew, to bellow at each other uncomfortably over a selection of 1990s student nightclub anthems.
During Katie Taylor’s fight, the second of the evening, Smith had knowingly said of the headline event: “We just don’t know, nobody knows, what’s going to happen later on. Anyone who after the event claims that they did know in the first place is lying.” It was hard not to remember those words later on as Woolhouse repeatedly asked her guests what was going to happen. In response Bellew, who to be fair had answered a near-identical question at length about 10 minutes previously, eventually simply rephrased the original query and repeated it back again – “This is why we’re all here. We need to find out, can Anthony do to Wladimir Klitschko what he’s done to 18 other guys?” – which Wilder for one clearly appreciated. “I agree with Tony,” he said moments later. “He hit the nail right on the head.”
As both Joshua and Klitschko were soon to find out, the nail was not the last thing to be hit right on the head on Saturday night. Smith, who when not wielding a microphone is Sky’s head of boxing, betrayed his fear of potential disappointment when he declared nervously that “we hope for a fight that lives up to all the buildup and all the hype”, and it certainly did that, as first Klitschko was dazed, then Joshua was rocked, and eventually the Briton regrouped, refocused and dramatically prevailed. It was with no little relief that Smith screamed after the conclusion that for “all the hype, the weeks and weeks of it, for the millions tuning in, the thousands here, breaking records, they’ve dished up a humdinger!”
Given that 13 of Joshua’s 18 previous professional fights had been over inside two rounds, Sky’s most significant risk was that this bout would be too brief to be brilliant. In the end, however, there could be no possible cause for disappointment. “AJ ticked all the boxes tonight,” concluded Bellew. “There’s a new sheriff in town and his name is Anthony Joshua. Let him take his place on the throne.” And in the circumstances the only people who could have complained about his conclusion were probably sheriffs, wondering where their thrones were.
No heavyweight champion in history has achieved so much, yet been admired so little, as Wladimir Klitschko. During a career spanning two decades and 29 world title fights the man known as Dr Steelhammer has accumulated many victories and championship belts – and even more jibes about being merely an automaton with a pummelling left jab and a crushing right hand. Yet, as the 41-year-old addressed the 90,000 crowd at Wembley following his brave defeat to Anthony Joshua on Saturday, he was greeted with something both rare and welcome: a thunderous outpouring of affection and respect.
Klitschko deserved nothing less. For 11 rounds he summoned a performance of immense grit, resolve and no little drama against a fighter 14 years his junior. It contained pretty much everything in fact – except one last felling blow to topple Joshua when his legs and lungs appeared to have gone in an enthralling sixth round.
Yet after knocking down Joshua for the first time in his career with a spearing right cross and cuffing left, Klitschko made what he felt was a crucial, fight-altering error. “I thought he wouldn’t get up,” he confessed. “Big respect to AJ. I think I should have done more straight after he went down. But I was pretty sure it was going to be my night so I took my time.”
Perhaps a younger version of Klitschko would have had enough juice in the tank to sustain the attack and apply the kill. Instead, as the rounds went on, Joshua got a second wind while Father Time, as well as Joshua’s jolting, hurtful, combinations caught up with him.
Yet the fight was close enough to make Klitschko mull over the possibility of carrying on, at least in the early hours of Sunday morning. “I’ll take my time over deciding what happens next,” he admitted. “Right now I won’t make any decisions.
“I think Joshua and I both did great. I think we did a lot for the sport in the way we performed and how we respected and treated each other. It was a great night for boxing and the fans. You will probably be surprised by my statement, but I don’t feel like I lost. Tonight, we all won. I didn’t get the belts but I didn’t feel like I lost – not my name, my face, nor my reputation. It was great to be involved in such an amazing occasion.”
It was unusual to hear a serial winner say such a thing. But he had a point. At ringside during the fight and afterwards people were turning to each other and saying: “This guy is 41!” As Joshua’s promoter, Eddie Hearn, put it: “Wladimir showed tremendous heart – he will probably get more credit for this than maybe the rest of his career.”
If Klitschko does decide it is time to retire, it will be with an impressive professional record of 64 wins in his 69 fights. Impressively he had his best years in his 30s. After regaining his heavyweight title by stopping Chris Byrd in April 2006, he made 19 defences – nine of which came against unbeaten fighters – and was unbeaten for a decade before being shocked by Tyson Fury in November 2015.
Whatever the state of the division, that deserves respect, even if many of his performances lacked excitement. It did not help that as he got older the right hand has been thrown sparingly, when the opponent was softened and prepared for the kill. Too many late-era Klitschko fights involved too much jab-jab-clinch.
Yet against Joshua he put everything on the line. Against Fury he had fought with the stiffness of someone who had suffered a couple of slipped discs. But at Wembley he was on his toes and frequently coming forward, ready to put everything on the line.
That, inevitably, led to him taking greater punishment. Yet his chin – which has never really been respected after a couple of shock defeats early in his career – proved to be made from granite as he repeatedly took massive blows, including one uppercut that rocked him to his boots and another that left a deep half crescent over his left eye.
Unsurprisingly he was classy to the end – despite the obvious frustrations of coming within a big right hand of regaining his title. “I have always been a fan of AJ’s talent,” he said, his voice tinged with a certain sadness. “He beat me and he won the fight, shows his qualities. The best man won and it’s a massive event for boxing. Two gentleman fought each other. Anthony was better. It’s really sad I didn’t make it. He is unified champion and I have to cheer up. He did what he was supposed to do.”
Yet the thought of a rematch, and committing himself to another punishing bout with Joshua, clearly still holds a certain fascination. “I think he is vulnerable, and this will be something he will need to work on,” said Klitschko, but even as he spoke he must have realised the chances of him being the person to prove it will get slimmer with every month that passes.
From the moment the final blows of a magnificent fight rippled down Anthony Joshua’s 27-year-old arms on to the bleeding and battered head of the 41-year-old Wladimir Klitschko in the 11th round, there could be no more arguments about who is the best heavyweight in the world.
It was not just that Joshua, unbeaten in all 19 professional fights, had added the WBA “super” version of the title to his own IBF belt, or even that he had stopped one of boxing’s finest old champions. What secured the winner’s acclaim, surely, by everyone but the WBC champion, Deontay Wilder (who sat ringside) was that he got up from a right cross in the sixth that would have felled an elephant. Probably unsure what city he was in, he fought on through a daze to bring the contest to the most dramatic conclusion, and will rule until someone of equal stature unseats him. There is nobody of that calibre on the horizon.
There was little in it as they came out for the 11th round. Klitschko, perhaps, had an edge, using every trick garnered over 68 fights, 29 of them as champion in an 11-year stretch, to bring anxiety to his young opponent’s work. That changed in the crack of a single uppercut to the Ukrainian’s jaw, which all but toppled him. A left hook and a grazing right put him down for a count in his own corner and Joshua went for the kill, calmly and with fixed purpose. He sent him over like a dead tree with a left hook, yet somehow Klitschko got up for more.
When Joshua moved in with rapacious instincts to let loose that volley of pain in his own corner, his trainer, Robert McCracken, was screaming himself hoarse – along with the rest of the stadium.
Joshua celebrated in the ring with a message that sounded like a recruiting call for all the lost youth he likes to represent: “If you don’t take part, you fail. Boxing is about character. There is nowhere to hide. No complications about boxing. Anyone can do this. Give it a go. You leave your ego at the door. Massive respect to Klitschko. He’s a role model in and out of the ring and I’ve got nothing but love and respect for anyone who steps in the ring. London, I love you. Can I go home now?”
The response from the 90,000 present was rapturous – as it was for Klitschko when he took the microphone to acknowledge: “The best man won. It’s really sad I didn’t make it tonight. But all respect to Anthony.”
In the 10 minutes or so Klitschko had to wait in the ring while the champion sashayed through the crowd, the Ukrainian bounced to Joshua’s music. He did not dance to his tune for all of the fight but Joshua had his measure when it mattered.
Joshua had to call up all the things he had learned – about boxing off the lines, moving in and out, waiting for gaps – but Klitschko had that hard-wired already. He had 50 fights on the young champion, and 14 years. Still, the mutual respect of the buildup carried over to the combat, and neither man took early risks.
Klitschko, always marginally fancier than his elder brother Vitali, got up on his toes and moved into hitting range in the third, looking to pressure his opponent, but Joshua kept his shape and composure.
The challenger opened the fourth with a long right that caught Joshua off-guard, before settling back into his counterpuncher’s rhythm. Against lesser opponents, he has always been prepared to wait for openings but, in his latter years, he has pulled the trigger less often when those opportunities have presented themselves. So it was in the fourth, which he let slip by.
The fight properly came to life in the fifth. Joshua, stirred after being shaken, hammered Klitschko with a welter of rights and lefts and sent him down at his feet for a count. But in a dramatic and swift turnaround, Klitschko shot back an uppercut, staggering Joshua to the point of near collapse. It is astonishing that he returned to his corner smiling. He had survived and got the round for the knockdown.
The old and former champion now had blood and fire in his eyes. Both had tasted the other man’s power. Both were wary, but game nonetheless for a tear-up if it came. Joshua was still looking for his legs when Klitschko produced a crackerjack right in the sixth, delivered flush on his slack jaw, and down he sailed. The stadium held its breath. Somehow, Joshua rose on feet that a drunk would have rejected, and he was still there at the end of the sixth.
Joshua seemed to be moving in a daze still but then started talking to the Ukrainian midway through the seventh, as if to test the fire again. “Come on!” he said. Klitschko’s round.
Joshua looked livelier in the eighth, keen to renew high-grade hostilities. Klitschko now had the right hand cocked constantly but the seconds ticked by without a launch. Joshua jolted his head back with jabs, his concentration and confidence just about restored, to edge the round.
Klitschko was still living off the success of the sixth, it seemed, as they shared the ninth. In the 10th, he reverted to type and tied up his man at every opportunity, no doubt imagining he could now manage the fight all the way to the final bell.
The only bells ringing for Klitschko, however, were those in his head in the 11th, probably the most horrendous of his long and garlanded career. He was a proud not bitter loser, a champion to the end.
Asked while his head was still spinning if he would contemplate a rematch, he said, quite reasonably: “Of course I’m interested but first I’ve got to work out what the hell happened.”
What happened was he lost to a fighter who can now fairly claim to be the biggest star in the business. Not that he would, mind.
Luke Campbell is only a signature away from a world title fight with the outstanding WBA lightweight champion, Jorge Linares, after a convincing ninth-round stoppage of Darleys Pérez on Saturday night. “I’ve been watching him my whole career and he’s a great champion,” Campbell said of the Venezuelan standing next to him after the fight. “I would love that fight.”
Linares, who has checked the world title ambitions of Kevin Mitchell and Anthony Crolla, will provide another level altogether for Campbell, who has had five good wins since his only defeat in 18 paid bouts, against Yvan Mendy in 2015.
This undercard fight was a classic cat-and-mouse affair between two skilful and quick-fisted boxers, Campbell’s educated southpaw style interlocking with the that of the orthodox Pérez with surprising smoothness.
The Colombian, who boxed a close draw then lost to Crolla, arrived at only three weeks’ notice and did not make the 9st 9lb limit, however, so was boxing for the purse and pride. The latter remained intact until he turned away in pain after throwing a half-jab, clutching his left arm, and was retired in the eighth.
Another garlanded Olympic champion, Katie Taylor, one of the outstanding amateurs of her time and a beacon for women’s boxing, looks more like a professional with every fight and edged closer to a world title when she imposed a seventh-round stoppage on her fifth opponent, the unbeaten Nina Meinke.
The German, smaller but as determined as the 30-year-old Dubliner, had also had only a handful of contests, but the win has earned Taylor a shot at the WBA belt, probably in June or July, according to her promoter, Eddie Hearn. She will take the organisation’s inter-continental belt to the negotiating table with her.
Scott Quigg, with Freddie Roach newly installed in his corner, kept his world title hopes burning and brought a few of the Wild Card frills back with him in pounding out a comprehensive win over Viorel Simion, a 35-year-old Romanian whose only defeat in a long career came in Hull four years ago against Lee Selby.
The Bury featherweight, a former world champion at super-bantam, will now chase a shot at the winner of Léo Santa Cruz and Abner Mares. A rematch with Carl Frampton is on the horizon.
Similar in stature and hard-jawed features, Quigg and Simion could have been mistaken for brothers from the cheap seats as they set to, but the gnarled visitor looked more like Quigg’s grandfather by the end.
Joe Cordina, who boxed for Great Britain at the Rio Olympics, barely broke sweat in his second professional bout, overwhelming the diminutive Sergei Vib in the first round. The referee had seen enough – and so, probably, had Mr Vib – after two left hooks levelled the German-based Russian.
Melbourne Victory will play Sydney FC for the A-League championship after Besart Berisha sunk his former club Brisbane Roar in their semi-final on Sunday night. On a tense evening at AAMI Park, Berisha broke the deadlock for Kevin Muscat’s men with 20 minutes remaining, heading home Fahid Ben Khalfallah’s cross.
Victory were worthy winners after playing the role of aggressors for most of the game and eventually beat determined goalkeeper Jamie Young. Their progression to the showpiece match – to be played on Sunday 7 May at Allianz Stadium – means the top two finishers will compete in the grand final for the fifth straight year.
The decider is also a repeat of the 2015 contest, won 3-0 by Muscat’s Victory. But on the evidence of Sunday night, Victory will need to lift their game to match Graham Arnold’s record-breaking Sydney FC.
Victory came into the match with just one goal since 11 March and again struggled to be incisive up front. Berisha set the tone early when he failed to control Marco Rojas’ cross, losing track of the ball just metres from goal.
James Donachie made a mess of a free header from a Rojas corner and Berisha, Fahid Ben Khalfallah and Leigh Broxham all saw one-on-one chances saved by Young.
The Brisbane Roar gloveman, wearing an armguard after requiring 26 stitches from his midweek mishap in Thailand, kept Victory at bay for more than an hour. When Broxham’s trailing knee collided with Young’s head, the patched up goalkeeper needed a lengthy delay before being cleared to continue.
Brandon Borrello had Brisbane’s best chances, sending shots outside the goal frame either side of half-time.
The tension was rising, as evidenced by the increasing ferocity of Muscat’s complaints on the touchline. Only the sight of Sydney FC coach Arnold on the big screen relaxed proceedings, with Brisbane and Victory fans uniting to sing of their dislike for the premiership winner.
Rojas elevated the occasion with one glorious touch – controlling Daniel Georgievski’s long ball and turning Corey Brown inside out. His shot was too tame to trouble Young but Victory would soon have their goal.
On his last appearance at AAMI Park, Ben Khalfallah’s outstanding ball was the difference, as Berisha ended the season of his former club.
The Blues extended New Zealand Super Rugby sides’ winning streak over Australian opposition to 15 games, with an 18-12 victory over the Brumbies. Despite being last in the New Zealand group, the Blues were too good for the conference-topping Brumbies in a stark illustration of the gulf between Kiwi outfits and their trans-Tasman rivals.
It was the Brumbies’ third loss in a row and ninth consecutive defeat to New Zealand opposition. The Blues dominated possession from the outset on Sunday but were unable to breach the Brumbies dogged defence for the opening half hour in front of 12,072 at GIO Stadium.
Winger Matt Duffie broke the deadlock, with a George Moala offload helping him to cross after 31 minutes. Brumbies fullback Tom Banks also showed glimpses in attack, but was unable to hurt the Blues on the scoreboard.
Brumbies captain Sam Carter’s decision to back their rolling maul to score a try rather than give Wharenui Hawera a penalty goal attempt on half-time did not pay dividends and the Blues went to the break leading 8-3.
Hawera got a chance three minutes into the second half and kicked truly to shave the deficit to two. He put them in front with his third penalty after 51 minutes, as the Brumbies refused to fold but it didn’t take the men from Auckland long to regain the lead and a well-worked lineout allowed Akira Ioane to drive over for a try and make it 13-8.
Bryn Gatland missed the conversion and the Brumbies began to apply pressure on the Blues defence. That culminated in Hawera’s fourth goal bringing them within one point with 20 minutes remaining.
But as momentum shifted back to the Blues, they were able to capitalise on their opportunities with a Melani Nanai try coming from a scrum, setting up a match-winning lead and helping his side to pick up a crucial bonus-point victory.
Overnight, Melbourne’s case to avoid the Super Rugby axe hit a King-size hurdle in Port Elizabeth with the Rebels turning in their worst performance of the season with an insipid 44-3 loss.
The Rebels and the Kings have their necks on the Super Rugby chopping block with the competition set to downsize next year but only the South Africans appeared to be playing for their lives.
The Kings, who sit bottom of their conference yet also claimed the Waratahs’ scalp last week in a further sign of the weakness of Australian rugby, posted six unanswered tries with five coming in the second half.
Melbourne lost halfback captain Nic Stirzaker on the match eve to an ankle injury and then with only two No9s in the touring party, suffered a cruel blow with his replacement Mick Snowden going down with foot problem midway through the first half.
Flanker Colby Fainga’a and then five-eighth Ben Volavola both shared the duties through the match but the Rebels attack lost structure and cohesion.
Primed for a first win in South Africa after a draw with the Sharks last week, Melbourne coach Tony McGahan said his team struggled to recover from the key injuries.
“Losing Nic and then Mick really hurt us,” McGahan said. “I think we looked OK there for 15 minutes in attack and then we toiled hard but we just weren’t able to control the ball.”
For the first time England have an ODI series against Ireland. The series lasts for only two matches but this is a landmark of sorts and allows England, at home, preparation for an international summer devoted to white-ball cricket until July.
Meanwhile the Irish always relish the chance to upset the odds (when last in Dublin for a match the wifi code in the press box was Bangalore2011). On Friday the two teams meet at Bristol; on Sunday they are at Lord’s, where only a handful of tickets are still available.
Another “first” is that England are playing an international when three of their key cricketers are engaged in the Indian Premier League. Jos Buttler, Ben Stokes and Chris Woakes have started to make their mark in the IPL in recent days and they will be gaining from the experience. So this is not a strategy which should be automatically denigrated. Their absence allows Ben Duckett and Steve Finn to be in the 14-man squad for the Ireland games, though they have not been selected in the 15 for three matches against South Africa and the subsequent Champions Trophy.
Eoin Morgan and Jason Roy have also been in India but have played only six IPL matches between them. Sam Billings, who will be keeping wicket on Friday in the absence of Buttler, has made more of an impact for the Delhi Daredevils. Meanwhile those based in England have appeared for their counties without much startling success. So the side looks a little rusty.
Some form players have been overlooked as the selectors seek the consistency of selection, which was spectacularly absent before the last major 50-over tournament, the World Cup of 2015. There have been no late swerves, just a minor punt on Mark Wood of Durham, so often hampered by injury. His selection reflects the need for someone who has the firepower to snatch wickets via extra pace. But there is no place for Liam Livingstone of Lancashire, who impressed with the Lions in the winter in Dubai and has begun this season brilliantly, revelling in the additional responsibility of batting up the order and, on one occasion, captaining his county side.
Liam Dawson of Hampshire misses out as the spin department is left in the hands of Adil Rashid and Moeen Ali. In the early part of the winter both were enhanced by the tutelage of Saqlain Mushtaq, who may well rejoin the England camp for a spell during the summer. Rashid and Moeen remain fragile assets and would welcome the reassuring presence of Saqlain as their spin doctor. Livingstone, I presume, may well get his chance later in the year if he maintains his stunning start to the season. He even impressed in Dubai as a makeshift spinner; he began his professional life as a leg-spinner but improvised sufficiently well to propel some effective off-breaks in the Lions’ one-day matches in Dubai.
All those complaining that Thursday’s Manchester derby was not a patch on the previous week’s el clásico completely miss the point. In terms of quality the Manchester derby is currently no better than the Merseyside version and it is rapidly becoming as irrelevant. If the Premier League does have a derby to stand comparison with the best Spain can offer, at the moment it would have to be the London rivalry between Chelsea and Spurs, whose FA Cup semi-final was both an entertaining game and, as Antonio Conte said, a great advert for English football.
That standards are being set in London rather than Manchester was painfully evident at the Etihad, where City and United in effect found themselves fighting over the crumbs left from the top table. Pep Guardiola and José Mourinho had to put a brave face on even being associated with such an unedifying shambles and the latter did not do himself or his club any favours with the ridiculous suggestion that Marouane Fellaini might have been harshly treated because he did not break Sergio Agüero’s nose or hurt him badly enough to prevent him smiling in the tunnel.
At least Guardiola, peering through the gloom of an underwhelming end to City’s season, could find something worth smiling about. He had hoped to have Gabriel Jesus back for the key games at the end of the campaign – the FA Cup final, maybe. Bringing him on for the last few minutes against United was an acknowledgment that there are not really going to be any key games now, at least none worth saving him for, and when the Brazilian immediately found the net with a header from a slightly offside position there was even the suggestion Guardiola should have sent him on earlier. But the striker’s recovery from a metatarsal fracture represents a positive for City, not just for next season but for what remains of this one.
“He has an instinct in the box,” Guardiola said, all too aware that apart from Agüero few other City players display the same trait. “When he played his first game against Tottenham [in January] he made an impact in eight minutes. Against United, after three months out, he finds two chances in five minutes, one goal disallowed by centimetres.
“He is dynamic and aggressive in the penalty area, his influence on his other team-mates is huge, and we are so happy to have him back. He could not play any more minutes on his return than he did because he only had two full training sessions in three months, but he is physically strong and I am pretty sure he is going to help us until the end of the season.”
That does not necessarily mean the 20-year-old will find himself in the starting lineup at Middlesbrough on Sunday. Guardiola still believes he should be brought back gradually, and he does not want to take unnecessary risks against a side fighting for Premier League survival.
“We’ve just had two tough games in a week, including extra time against Arsenal, and the players are tired,” Guardiola said. “The players showed their mental strength against United and they only have two and a half days to recover. We will have to assess the whole squad before making any selection decisions. We cannot risk not qualifying for the Champions League.”
There, if you like, is a useful synopsis of City’s season. All the dreams and ambition in the world at the start, by the end reduced to worrying about picking up enough points from Middlesbrough, West Brom and Watford. It is a familiar enough routine at the club, and one that importing a top-drawer manager does not seem to have greatly altered, though Vincent Kompany, a captain now also happily recovered from injury, believes he can see encouraging signs.
“We have not been getting the results we deserve after dominating so many games this season, but if you ask me we are not far off having the real deal here,” he said. “I’m hoping we are going to achieve Champions League qualification – looking at the fixtures there is an argument that United’s schedule is a little tougher than ours – and the best thing about football is that in just a few months’ time there will be four competitions to play for again.
“That’s the way I look at it, I don’t want to be depressed about where we stand at the moment. We don’t have any margin for mistakes but I remain convinced our performances have been good and we are not far from being competitive on all fronts. We didn’t get a result against United, fair enough. But watch the game closely and you can see there is something brewing.”
City have three home games left of their five to play, do not face any top-six opponents and should manage a top-four place as long as Agüero and Jesus remain available.
United’s point at the Etihad was significant in that it places top-four qualification in their own hands – if they win all their remaining games there will be nothing Liverpool can do to overhaul them – though as they still have to travel to Arsenal and Spurs it is by no means certain that Mourinho’s draw specialists will win all their remaining games.
Fellaini’s absence through suspension leaves Mourinho short in midfield, though, given he will still be available in Europe, not as short as all that. If Michael Carrick and Ander Herrera can make it through against Swansea on Sunday, Paul Pogba and Fellaini could take over at Celta Vigo and give the others a rest. “We are in trouble but we can fight,” Mourinho said, perhaps unwisely in view of Fellaini’s conduct in the derby.
The issue for both Manchester teams in what has been a disappointing season for the north-west as a whole, is the amount of fight left in Liverpool. With four winnable games between now and the end of the season, they ought to be looking at maximum points to make sure United have to do their utmost to sneak past them. Yet Liverpool appear to be running out of steam at the wrong time and after losing ground at home to Crystal Palace last week nothing can be taken for granted.
The only certainty, whoever makes it into the final top four, is that the London clubs will remain firmly on top. The northern powerhouse, in football as in geopolitics, is still a concept waiting to gain traction.
Melbourne will head into the representative round with a four-point lead atop the NRL ladder after hammering St George Illawarra 34-22 in their top-of-the-table clash. Billy Slater, Josh Addo-Carr and Suliasi Vunivalu all scored two tries each, while Cameron Smith kicked the 943rd goal of his career to break Jason Taylor’s record of most goals in history.
The Storm dominated early, racing to a 34-4 lead early in the second half before Dragons veteran Jason Nightingale bagged two of his own to give the WIN Stadium crowd of 12,377 a whiff of a comeback.
A Cooper Cronk sin-binning in the 65th continued the momentum shift, as did back-to-back tries to Cameron McInnes and a third to Nightingale. However despite a consolation try to Tariq Sims, the Storm held on to claim their eighth win in nine games and open a four-point lead on the second-placed Dragons.
Going into the game the Dragons were expected to struggle, with captain Gareth Widdop on the sideline with a knee injury. However the Storm flexed their muscle early to render the battle against the early season surprise packets a whitewash.
First Vunivalu cradled a Billy Slater cross-field kick one armed for first points in the ninth minute, before Addo-Carr made it consecutive tries when he showed off his speed soon after.
Vunivalu replied with another diving effort, finishing perpendicular to the corner post before Addo-Carr again responded with more burnt grass eight minutes later. At the 25th minute mark, the Storm were leading 22-0 and racing the clock however the Dragons eventually got one back through Jason Nightingale just before half-time.
Slater completed his brace with two tries early in the second half to extend the lead to a whopping 30 points before the Dragons saved face with the final four tries of the match.
Earlier, a Shaun Johnson penalty goal with less than a minute on the clock gave the Warriors a 14-13 win over the Roosters in Auckland. Down 13-12 and throwing the ball around aimlessly as the seconds ticked away, the Warriors earned a crucial penalty from Mitchell Pearce being offside.
Johnson, who signed a new two-year deal this week, kicked the resulting penalty from 20 metres out to hand his side their first NRL win in three matches.
It was especially unfortunate for Roosters playmaker Pearce, who had played well at Mount Smart Stadium and coolly given his side a one-point lead with a field goal four minutes earlier. The Warriors now move up a spot on the ladder to 11th, while the Roosters remain in fifth.
The Warriors hit the ground running on home turf and took the lead within six minutes. Capitalising on an earlier Roosters knock-on, Issac Luke laid on a quick play-the-ball for prop James Gavet, who muscled his way over from close range.
In what was a plodding first 40 minutes, the Roosters struggled to produce attacking opportunities and made just the single first-half line break. Boyd Cordner spilled a grubber kick over the line in a rare foray into Warriors territory, as both sides slugged it out through the middle.
The Warriors shot themselves in the foot soon after, gifting a try to Joseph Manu after a Shaun Johnson pass to no-one was collected by Shaun Kenny-Dowall, before the Kiwis halfback made amends with a wily one-on-one strip on Daniel Tupou.
The strip gave the Warriors prime field position and a man advantage after Tupou’s sin-binning for slowing the resulting play-the-ball, and quickly resulted in a try through David Fusitu’a on the right and a 12-4 half-time scoreline.
The game resumed in a similar fashion in the second stanza, before a clever piece of Kenny-Dowall anticipation nabbed the Kiwi an intercept try in the 48th minute. A penalty goal then tied the scores with 25 minutes remaining, where they remained until Pearce’s field goal.
Trinidad’s indicted Jack Warner – reacting to Concacaf suing him and his former Trump Tower neighbour Chuck Blazer for $20m by countersuing for $40m. Warner says his defamation case will end “the atrocities perpetrated against me by men of the lower ilk … The time has come. $40m it will be. Double theirs!”
• Jack’s previous best court plan: 2012 – a pledge to sue for defamation over “damn foolish” press talk of an FBI inquiry: “I will sue to the high heavens … It will be court after court after court.”
1) Richard Lai, Guam FA head and member of Fifa’s audit and compliance committee. 2013: Installs solar panels at his FA offices in a bid to raise $82,000 “for grassroots, for youth, for development … My preoccupation since I became president has been to find more sources of income.” 2017: Pleads guilty in a $1m bribery case; forfeits $1.1m.
2) Gordon Derrick, Antigua’s Caribbean Football Union head. 2016: Wins a new four-year term, promising to elevate an organisation “that was, when I arrived, scandal-hit and tarnished.” 2017: Faces a four-year ban over alleged “conflicts of interest, offering and accepting gifts, mismanagement of funds, abuse of position and disloyalty”. He denies wrongdoing.
And 3) Nicolás Leoz, Paraguay’s indicted former Conmebol head – linked by auditors to a $150m “gap” in their accounts. Leoz, 88, retired in 2013 “with the tranquillity and knowledge of having done a sincere, honest job”, and reflected on persistent press intrusion: “First the press in England were at it; now the German press do it. I don’t know. What is it that drives these people?”
Fifa - denying that accreditation rules restricting the movement of journalists at this summer’s Confederations Cup in Russia amount to a threat to press freedom: “Press freedom is the top priority for Fifa.”
Ukraine: Dynamo Kyiv, reacting after fans staged a “white frenzy” KKK swastika protest against black players. “FC Dynamo has always advocated respect for public order and generally accepted ethical standards, and condemned discrimination.” (Helping push the message: Dynamo coach Sergei Rebrov, who reflected on his time at Spurs in 2008: “A lot of dark-skinned people live there. So naturally the crime rate is higher.”)
Moment of the week: West Ham’s tax-funded stadium raided over tax-fraud claims, 18 months after vice-chair Karren Brady voted to cut tax credits in the Lord’s. Brady, not accused of wrongdoing, told The Sun: “The club is thoroughly satisfied it has conducted itself appropriately.”
Arsène Wenger, calling for a blanket ban on gambling: “You have everywhere, on every advert, bet, bet on Sky, bet on here, bet on there. If you don’t want people to bet, don’t make it official.” (2016: Arsenal make Tempobet “official betting partner in Oceania”, joining official European betting partner Betfair, 12Bet (Asia), SportPesa (Africa) and “Official Daily Fantasy Sports Partner” Draftkings. Arsenal: “We’re delighted to welcome Tempobet into our family. We look forward to working together to engage our supporters.”)
Croatia: Former Dinamo president Zdravko Mamic, in court over alleged €16m embezzlement and €1.6m tax fraud, reacting to the judge reading out his charges. “I’m not listening. This is sick and heinous. I’m no thief, I’m the creator of modern Dinamo. I am the creator of the fight against crime. People are going hungry and Croatia throws money at this farce?” The trial continues.
Nov 2016: David Yip, head of a Chinese consortium looking to buy Hull: “In the last decade, Hull City AFC excelled itself... escalating from one peak to another. It is for such colossal potential that we intend to acquire Hull City AFC.” Apr 2017: Yip taken into custody [pdf] by Hong Kong’s Independent Commission Against Corruption.
FCSB owner Gigi Becali, weighing up the prospect of Anamaria Prodan, wife of his coach Laurentiu Reghecampf, running for the Romanian League presidency. “I will block it. A woman in charge? It’d violate the principles of God. I know who is behind all this, promoting women, violating God’s plan - it’s the ‘one with horns’. The devil dominates the West - Trump only beat Clinton because the US is immune. Orthodoxy is the last stand. I speak the word of Jesus.”
1) Jan 2017: Dave Jones becomes Hartlepool’s seventh manager in five years. “If this club has a reputation for moving managers on, then it’s time for change. The chairman has brought me in here to change things.” Apr 2017: Moves on.
2) Switzerland: Sion president Christian Constantin - 44 coach changes in 14 years including himself as caretaker four times - denying he sacked coach Peter Zeidler: “He’s just taking a holiday.” Zeidler. “There is no ‘holiday’. The fact is, my replacement just took training. Christian has shown me the way.”
Brazil: Chapecoense coach Vagner Mancini, reacting after his striker Rossi was sent off and went viral for goosing an opponent. “The referee was biased. Faults committed on one side were whistled with rigour; on the other side, no. We got nothing.”
O Rossi foi expulso após este lance com o Polenta. Comentários de vocês, por favor... pic.twitter.com/xwWBf0f2ur
Brazil: Internacional coach Carlos Zago, denying simulation after he collapsed holding his eye when Caxias midfielder Elyeser brushed his shoulder. Zago – fined for kicking a club doctor during the first leg - told press he’d had to apply ice: “He did catch my eye. It happened.”
Gif mais patético da história. Parabéns Zago pic.twitter.com/1kcF6gYjDq
Collingwood eased the pressure on coach Nathan Buckley with a stunning 29-point win at the MCG that ended Geelong’s unbeaten run. With a 1-4 record going to the match, the under-siege Magpies were given little chance of victory on Sunday but dug deep to set up the 15.17 (107) to 11.12 (78) win with a six-goals-to-three third quarter.
The Pies led by a game-high 42 points early in the final term but even then the job was not done as the Cats, renowned strong finishers this season, peppered the goals to fray black-and-white nerves but the deficit proved to great.
By his own admission, Collingwood skipper Scott Pendlebury played his worst game in 10 years in the Anzac Day loss to Essendon, but he bounced back with a match-winning 33-possession performance. Levi Greenwood applied an old-fashioned hard tag on Joel Selwood that limited the skipper to just 17 touches.
Coming off a short five-day break, Collingwood’s midfield runners impressed, with Taylor Adams, Adam Treloar and Steele Sidebottom important. Travis Varcoe’s scything runs off half-back helped set up the win against his old side, but he limped out of the game with a hamstring injury in the third quarter.
Geelong didn’t escape unscathed either Brandan Parfitt helped from the ground with a hamstring injury in the final term. Zach Tuohy led the way for the Cats with 36 possessions, while Patrick Dangerfield was uncharacteristically quiet with 21 touches and a goal.
Later on Sunday, Adelaide burst Richmond’s bubble with a 76-point belting to become the AFL’s only unbeaten side. The Crows won 21.14 (140) to 10.6 (64) at Adelaide Oval, ruthlessly dishing out the Tigers’ first loss of the season. Coupled with Collingwood’s result, the Crows are now perched alone at the top.
Adelaide captain Taylor Walker booted five goals and his deputy Rory Sloane (three goals, 33 touches) was superb as Richmond folded after a promising start.
The Tigers, with captain Trent Cotchin influential, led 6.3 to 5.0 at quarter-time after a fast-paced opening but Adelaide’s feted attack then clicked into gear, kicking 13 of the next 14 goals in the game.
The Crows’ onslaught started in a powerful second quarter which returned 6.6 to Richmond’s one lonely goal – Walker slotting three for the half. With their midfield gaining ascendancy, Adelaide took a 27-point lead into the long break before rapidly killing off the Tigers in the third term.
The Crows, delighting their parochial 51,069-strong crowd, piled on seven goals to none in a devastating half-hour. Adelaide’s Sloane, Matt Crouch (38 disposals), Brad Crouch (25 possessions) and Rory Atkins (23 touches) were prolific ball-winners in a dominant onball brigade.
And Crow defenders Rory Laird (34 disposals), Jake Lever and Brodie Smith controlled Richmond’s attack, which was starved of chances after quarter-time. The Tigers mustered just one scoring shot – Jack Riewoldt’s second goal – from quarter-time until Kane Lambert kicked a goal in the 34th minute of the third term.
Lambert battled gamely and gathered 24 disposals while skipper Cotchin (26 disposals) was overwhelmed in the midfield. Team-mate Dustin Martin’s 24-possessions lacked usual impact and Richmond’s defence – which entered the game having conceded the least points in the league – leaked heavily against the Crows’ attacking might.
Adelaide has kicked more than 100 points in each of their six consecutive wins as they prolong the club’s best start to a season.
Earlier, Melbourne burst back to form, tearing Essendon apart in the second half for a 38-point win. Trailing by two points at half-time, the Demons kicked 13 goals to six in the second half and won convincingly, 17.10 (112) to 10.14 (74). It broke the Demons’ run of three-straight losses and is also their second win this season at Etihad Stadium, where they have an abysmal record.
Melbourne and Essendon made five changes apiece for the match and the Demons ran the Bombers off their feet after half-time. The Bombers did not kick a goal from midway through the third term until 11 minutes into the last quarter, when the game was over.
After an error-riddled first half, Melbourne opened up the game and it looked like Essendon was paying for their five-day break – the Bombers were coming off the Anzac Day win over Collingwood and rested several players.
Essendon key defender Michael Hurley was probably best afield in the first half with 16 disposals and nine marks but he only had two possessions in the third term as the Demons shored up their play.
Tom McDonald was excellent in defence for the Demons, while Jack Watts and Christian Petracca starred with four goals apiece. Returning from his three-game suspension, Melbourne onballer Jordan Lewis impressed with 30 disposals. Lewis capped his game with a goal from an impossible angle in the last quarter. Cam Pedersen was recalled because so many Melbourne ruckmen are injured and he also had a strong game.
After his best-afield performance on Anzac Day, Essendon key forward Joe Daniher personified his team’s sloppy ball use. He had kicked 0-6 and another out on the full before marking in the third term. Daniher played on and kicked another behind, but he was given a second chance because the mark had not been set, this time guiding it home.
Somehow, at the end of this brutal, seesawing, whirligig of a fight, Anthony Joshua still had the energy to stand on the ring apron, revel in the glorious applause of 90,000 people and pound his chest in triumph. The rest of us were left breathless after one of the greatest heavyweight fights in a generation.
Beforehand everyone was playing guessing games about how much Klitschko had left at 41. The last time he had fought, against Tyson Fury in November 2015, he had still looked as sculpted as a Greek statue – but was about as mobile. But here the proud champion, who had been unbeaten in 22 fights over 11 years before facing the fists of Fury, resurfaced with a vengeance. In the end it was age, as much as Joshua, that beat him.
When Michael Buffer announced Joshua’s name Wembley became a carnivorous din. There remains an electricity around a big world heavyweight title fight that is unmatched in sport. The heart quickens. The adrenaline does flipflops. Something about the impending and unpredictable violence concentrates the mind. It is not just the fighters who have to live each moment. We do too. Having so many people in the stadium only magnified it.
The early rounds were close, and after round four the fighters gave each other a mutual nod of appreciation. And then absolute chaos erupted. Round five will go down as one of the great rounds in heavyweight boxing history, along with the first round of Jack Dempsey against Luis Ángel Firpo, round four of George Foreman against Ron Lyle and round 10 of Riddick Bowe against Evander Holyfield – as Klitschko was put down and almost drummed out before coming back to desperately wound Joshua.
When Joshua’s first blow landed in the fifth a shadow of doubt and pain came across the Ukrainian’s face and he was bleeding under one eye but that was only the start of the barrage. Yet Klitschko clung on, absorbed and recovered to drive back his opponent.
For Joshua the crisis was just beginning. He started round six by telling Klitschko: “You can’t hurt me” – only to be felled for the first time in his career by a thudding right. There were many dangerous moments where it looked as if his IBF, WBA and IBO belts was going to be ripped from his waist. Somehow he survived the round, but he was still unsteady on his feet in round seven.
There have been other major heavyweight contests here and at the old stadium. But nothing this big – or epic. In 1963, 35,000 watched Henry Cooper put Cassius Clay on his pants before Clay’s punches turned his face into a dozen red rivers. And 40,000 saw Bruno bludgeoned by Tim Witherspoon during his first world title attempt in 1986 – the same number who were there when he became WBC champion nine years later with a victory over Oliver McCall. But this was far bigger in crowd size and stature.
The pace naturally slowed for both men needed time to breath and they were not the only ones. Frequently their tired bodies would crash into each other at the same time, like rutting stags. But slowly Joshua was finding his legs again, while the energy was draining from Klitschko like a leaking battery. And when a right uppercut swivelled him around in the 11th round he lacked the reflexes to escape.
Joshua was immediately on to him, like a man wanting to fell trees in a hurry. One left hook sent him to the floor. Then another. The stoppage, when it came, was a welcome act of mercy.
“I came out and I won, I didn’t go into the slugfest, I came back and fought my heart out,” said Joshua. “That is what I am about.”
He rightly praised Klitschko too, calling him “a role model in and out of the ring – I have got nothing but respect for him”.
There was also a message for Fury, who is on the comeback trail following a bout of severe depression. “I love fighting,” Joshua said. “I know Tyson Fury has been talking a lot, so I want to give 90,000 people a chance to experience another night of boxing.”
Afterwards there was vague talk of a rematch, with Klitschko insisting: “Of course, I am interested but I need to analyse what the hell happened. I didn’t enjoy the night as much as he did but congratulations to Anthony.”
There is a clause in the contract, which means it could happen but it might be wiser for Klitschko to bow out now, having given everything before falling proudly on his shield and with his reputation higher than for years.
If they do meet again, he will surely know Joshua is likely to be wiser and nastier. It is amazing to think it is just 10 years since he walked into a gym in Barnet to take a keep-fit class and pump iron, and left with a thirst for something altogether more savage. His progress since has rapid, with an Olympic gold followed by a world title. And after this, who would dare suggest his vertiginous ascent is slowing?
A standout performance from goalkeeper Sharni Layton lifted Collingwood to a thrilling 61-59 Super Netball win over the Queensland Firebirds in Launceston. The tenacious national team star had a game-high six intercepts and five deflections as the star-studded Magpies bagged a third consecutive win, boosting their finals hopes after a patchy start to the season.
With four rounds remaining, captain Madi Robinson had labelled Sunday’s game at the Silverdome a “must-win” for the Magpies to cement a top-four finish. And her side showed every signs of having responded to coach Kristy Keppich-Birrell’s challenge to lift their aggression.
“This really had a lot of weighting for us across the next part of the season and going into finals,” Keppich-Birrell said. “There was a [request] from the coaching panel to the group to lift their defensive intensity and increase the number of gains, but also to then put those gains through the hoop.”
After weeks of tinkering with their frontcourt combination, the Magpies put their faith in Cody Lange at goal attack alongside Diamonds goal shooter Caitlin Thwaites. The duo made a perfect 18-18 start in the first quarter but problems soon began to emerge at the other end of the court.
The 187cm Layton was caught in a mis-match against 196cm Lightning goal shooter Romelda Aiken which the tall Jamaican was quickly able to exploit. Lightning playmakers Caitlyn Nevins and Erin Burger gambled successfully with long and high passes to Aiken but the Magpies, led by Layton, made the right adjustments and began to force turnovers.
With midcourt livewires Robinson and Kim Ravaillion fuelling the Magpies’ rapid ball movement, Thwaites continued to shoot the lights out to hand her side the momentum.
The fifth-placed Firebirds refused to go away, led by gun captain Madi Simpson, and stole the lead midway through the third term. Scores were tied at the final break but the Pies closed it out strongly, with Layton leading the defensive effort until the final whistle.
“I’m proud of the way the girls fought the game out,” Firebirds coach Rosalee Jencke said. “Going into the last quarter ... we probably just lapsed a bit in that first couple of minutes. We fought it out all the way but just ran out of time at the end.”
Thwaites again starred on the offensive end, draining 43 of her 45 shots, while Firebirds counterpart Aiken shot 47 from 52. It continues the Magpies’ strong run of form, having also beaten the Giants and Fever in recent weeks.
Later on Sunday, the Giants bounced back from last week’s defeat to the Magpies with a 48-45 win over West Coast Fever in Perth that spoiled the 200th national league appearance of captain Nat Medhurst.
It was an intense and physical contest and scores were tied for significant periods in the fourth quarter but the Giants went on a three-goal run late to secure their eighth win of the season and return to second position, a point behind the Melbourne Vixens.
Coach Julie Fitzgerald was happy with the fight shown from her team to win another game that could have gone either way and hopes it continues next Sunday in Adelaide against the bottom-placed Thunderbirds.
“There’s an awful lot to work on but I suppose the thing that pleased me was the resilience. It was such a tight game so was difficult to get any sort of lead that we could hold on to,” Fitzgerald said. “We are very used to being on the road now so we can’t use travel as an excuse. But Adelaide is so desperate for a win and they are improving every week as well so I think it will be much the same story.”
Despite shooters Kaylia Stanton and Kate Beveridge having indifferent games, Fever coach Stacey Marinkovic could not fault her team. She hopes it would have been the same whether it was a milestone for Medhurst or not.
“Nat hasn’t wanted to make a big thing about it even though there was a lot of hype around the club with the milestone,” Marinkovic said. “There was a lot of fight out there and in the second quarter we dropped a little bit but we got ourselves back in the contest quickly.
“We stayed in the contest regardless of what was happening around us. We put them under a lot of pressure but it’s just those couple of critical moments that we have to learn from.”
The Fever now take on the NSW Swifts in Sydney on Friday night.
Captain Aaron Woods says instability and frequent drama surrounding Wests Tigers contributed to his decision to leave for a four-year deal with NRL rivals Canterbury. The Bulldogs confirmed rugby league’s worst-kept secret on Sunday, announcing Woods had signed to head to Belmore at the end of the season.
Woods said he never thought he would leave the Tigers, where he started as a junior but frustration played a part in his exit following several turbulent seasons at the club. The dramas in that period were highlighted by long-running saga as former skipper Robbie Farah was forced out by coach Jason Taylor, who was himself sacked earlier this season.
“It was a hard decision but at the Tigers there are a lot of ups and downs, a lot of instability,” Woods told Fox Sports. “A lot of things happen in the background at the club from a higher place that is out of our control – we’re forever in the media. We are football players. It is the stuff that comes with it, it takes its toll after a while.”
Woods’ comments are similar to those from fullback star James Tedesco, who is expected to sign with Sydney Roosters, having admitted earlier this month he was tempted by the off-field stability at the Roosters and Canterbury. Five-eighth Mitchell Moses is also expected to join Parramatta next year, leaving only halfback Luke Brooks of the Tigers’ so-called Big Four who came off contract this season.
Woods, who has a regular spot on Fox Sports’ NRL 360 show, has been the face of the Tigers through the recent troubled times and he has paid a price for it at times as his much-publicised contract situation played out. He has been targeted with boos from some disgruntled Tigers fans and one pointed banner on the hill at Leichhardt Oval during Saturay’s 22-16 loss to Crobulla read “Woods is a Dog”.
Woods was asked if he felt there had been a lack of support for him at the club in the recent dramatic months. “I felt let down a little bit,” Woods said. “Since Jason Taylor got sacked it’s come out publicly that the big four at the time, everyone was saying about us that we got him sacked. That’s a complete lie. The board and the CEOs make decisions. We just play football – that’s it.”
Tigers officials were full of praise for Woods in a statement announcing his season-end departure. “While we’re incredibly disappointed that Aaron will be leaving Wests Tigers at the end of the season we wish him well in the future,” chair Marina Go said. “He has led from the front every time that he has pulled on the Wests Tigers jersey and continually inspired those around him.
It comes after the club emailed members during the week to urge them to stop booing the 133-game player. Fan frustrations appeared to hit a new low following Saturday’s match, with the club confirming on Sunday they are working with NSW Police to investigate an incident where a full can of drink was thrown, landing between two players on the field.
“Hey Ed, fancy coming to my house this weekend? My dad’s having a bit of a party.”
“Sure! But let me just check with my mum first.” I always check with Mum first. I’m nine.
I arrive at my school friend George’s house and his father comes out to greet me warmly. “Ed! Great to see you! Fancy a five-a-side?”
I walk through the house and out into the garden and casually think to myself: “Oh look, there’s Angus Deayton.” Why, as a nine-year-old, I knew who Angus Deayton was remains a troubling mystery. I didn’t watch Have I Got News For You and had never been a prostitute. Anyway, I get distracted because I’m pretty sure I spot Caprice milling around by the vol-au-vents and blow me if that isn’t Uri Geller eyeing the silverware. I know what you’re thinking and, no, I haven’t somehow stumbled into the mind of Paul Ross. George’s father is David Frost and this is one of his famous garden parties.
'Lads,' David says chuckling, 'do you fancy taking some penalties?'
The players line up in the garden. On my team is Rory Bremner, David Frost, David’s eldest son Miles and someone I’ve forgotten (probably Parky). On the other was Angus, David’s middle son Wilfred, George, David Seaman, and Michael Howard (the Home Secretary at the time).
After a hard fought game in which I failed to score, but succeeded in barging Michael Howard to the ground, George beckons me over to meet David Seaman. I was and still am an Arsenal fan so this was one of the most exciting moments in my life. It couldn’t get any better.
“Lads,” David says chuckling, “do you fancy taking some penalties?”
This was almost too much. I manage to calm myself and place a football uncertainly on the penalty spot. I pause for a moment, then run up and strike the ball with all the power and skill I can muster. It dribbles pathetically along the ground and, with the barest of movements, Seaman smashes it mercilessly back over my head. He starts chuckling again.
“Can I have another go, please?” I whimper to a grown-up.
“Of course,” they reply, “go and get your ball and have another shot.”
I can’t actually find the ball because Seaman’s leathered it so hard. I manage to procure another and as I place it, Seaman, still chuckling, catches my eye.
“Hey, little man, aim for the corner. I’m rubbish down to my right.” Seaman you idiot, I think. You didn’t mean for that to come out, but it has. Right, chuckle this! The ball trickles reluctantly into the bottom right. Seaman’s nowhere. It’s not often you get to topple a minister and wipe the floor with Seaman on the same day.
Miles Frost, George’s brother, died in 2015, aged 31, from a heart condition. To help make genetic testing available to families affected by the condition, visit bhf.org.uk/miles-frost-fund
When comedian John Clarke died this month, the most frequent tribute clips came from his ABC television series The Games. In the lead-up to Sydney’s 2000 Olympics, Clarke parodied the organisers with vicious precision. It worked because the likes of John Coates and Kevan Gosper were so readily mocked, with their propensity to public gaffes and the often amateurish appearance of their organisations. For Olympics previous, Australian authorities seemingly only had to arrange a stack of bad tracksuits and clip-on koalas. Now they were building the biggest show on earth. It felt like asking Rooty Hill RSL to run the Opera House.
Skip to the present day, and the scenes could have fuelled Clarke for another season. At the centre remains Coates, as he has since 1990, but a vote for the Australian Olympic Committee presidency this Wednesday could see challenger Danielle Roche bring him down. The contest has become intense. At first it brings to mind that Henry Kissinger misattribution about the bitterness of fights for no real power: congratulations, you’re the lord of slalom canoe events in all the land. But at stake is prestige, authority and very real money.
In terms of sticking around, Coates has parallels with Sepp Blatter or Juan Antonio Samaranch – in the job so long that the public is largely sick of them, yet so connected in their own political sphere that they can’t be removed. When any long-term autocrat finally faces a credible threat, it can surge in an instant. Coates is up against this kind of momentum, as media coverage and relevant parties speak of change and renewal.
But while attention is on Coates, spare some for his key rival, John Wylie. The AOC’s job is to be intermediary between the International Olympic Committee and Australia’s 40 federations representing Olympic sports. It is independent of government, as the IOC requires member committees to be. Wylie heads the Australian Sports Commission (ASC), the federal government body in charge of sport development and funding.
As expressed in a letter to Coates in December 2016, Wylie wants more influence over the Olympic body, its funding, and its appointments. In a January reply, Coates rejected this publicly and at length as a breach of independence, before the pair had an angry verbal altercation at an athletics meet in February. Then came the AOC leadership challenge from Roche, who also happens to be a board member of Wylie’s ASC.
None of this means the AOC leadership flaws aren’t extensive. On available evidence, Coates backs his allies beyond reason while marginalising those he doesn’t regard as loyal. Media director and Coates diehard Mike Tancred was the subject of bullying complaints by multiple colleagues, but nothing was done for months. Only when an extraordinary meeting was called in the past week did Tancred stand down and an investigation begin. Board member Kitty Chiller, meanwhile, was a PR disaster as chef de mission at the Rio Olympics, only for Coates to immediately propose giving her the same job for Tokyo 2020.
Leaked emails have shown the president’s unpleasant and abrasive side, including a group email to colleagues deriding an employee with cancer. Staff turnover in recent years has been extreme. The Tancred inquiry will be independent, but a broader investigation into the AOC’s workplace environment has been tasked to incoming chief executive Matt Carroll, an absurd job to expect someone starting a new position to be able to do impartially.
Then there’s the presidential pay packet, an annual “consultancy” of $716,500 that dwarfs the amounts the AOC pays to entire sports, let alone individual athletes, paid in addition to the lavish allowances Coates gets as vice-president of the IOC. While he has argued that the board suggested his payment as compensation for corporate posts that he resigned, for a wealthy individual filling that kind of role it’s a terrible look.
All this makes a pretty compelling case for change. Really though, these problems lie parallel to the current power struggle. The question is, what would change entail in its proposed form? What would ASC influence over the Olympic program mean? Like Coates, Wylie seems to enjoy positions of power and prestige. He has headed corporations and the MCG Trust. He runs the board of the State Library of Victoria, handing out bequests for various lovely things with his name on them. He was behind bringing Victor Hugo’s Les Miserables manuscript to Melbourne, for an exhibition in which the State Library unsuccessfully went against its standard policy and charged for entry.
He’s clearly a man of influence. Given Wylie’s business connections, it’s interesting that Coates has been criticised by Qantas chairman Leigh Clifford, who’s a director of Equestrian Australia, and Australian Rugby Union director Ann Sherry, who used to be Bank of Melbourne’s chief executive. Neither said which way their federations would vote in the AOC election, but their voices carry weight. Wylie also has strong Liberal party connections, so it’s interesting that federal sports minister Greg Hunt renewed his ASC role shortly after the February argument with Coates, in what could be read as a public taking of sides.
So what does Wylie want? There was no doubt that his December letter to Coates, smooth as it was in language, was at least in part a power-play. His “wish to develop and fund joint programs with the AOC” could be read to mean that in a period of tight funding, access to AOC resources would make the ASC’s job easier. He also wants a say in management – for instance, choosing the chef de mission. Wylie’s language is that of venture capital and dividend, seeing “the choice of person in this lead role as having a significant bearing on the final preparation and delivery of an Olympic team in whom we have been the major investor”.
There is the suggestion of having more individuals who serve on both boards simultaneously. Then there’s the economic rationalism of the Winning Edge strategy, which prioritises money to those sports more likely to produce medals. It might not have gelled with Pierre de Coubertin, he of “The most important thing in the Olympic Games is not winning but taking part”; it has to be conceded that Taking Part Edge doesn’t really have the same ring.
These are some of the areas that Coates was right to slap down in his return letter. “My difficulty with [Winning Edge]” he wrote, “is that the AOC executive has a fiduciary duty to support and hopefully effect the Olympic representation and participation of all 40 of our national member federations.” As for the AOC becoming more entwined with government, this naturally means its objectives can be compromised by the partisan demands of the day. Aside from Wylie’s stated aims, but there’s no knowing what else might be desired if the ASC did gain more control. Then there’s the issue that the ASC has a responsibility for all sport in Australia, of which Olympic sport is just one part.
Of course when it comes to public image – such as avoiding a repeat of the chef de mission missteps in Rio – that wouldn’t be such an issue if the AOC was more accountable, or its president more able to be swayed. So the dilemma continues, with Coates having proved unable to contain himself when his province was threatened. His sense of self, his power, the perks they entail, are all on the line, including his IOC position that he has waited so many years to attain. His personal blow-up at Wylie came under that pressure, but abusing his rival in front of assorted dignitaries now looks like the point where support really started to slip away.
The thing about autocrats is that they always seem eternal, right up until the moment that they’re not. All it takes to bring one down is the first whiff that their removal is possible. This is why they’re always so disproportionate in quashing dissent. So when the opportunity comes up, when momentum swings that way, it always feels like a matter of urgency to act on it. Still, for all that, it really pays to have an idea what you’re installing in their place.
Chelsea will conclude a “crucial week” in the context of their season’s ambitions at Everton on Sunday with Antonio Conte confident his team has the fortitude to cope with the pressures of the run-in as they target the 12 points from their final five games that will guarantee them the Premier League title.
They endured two fruitless trips to Goodison Park last season, in the league under José Mourinho and FA Cup with Guus Hiddink, and were uncharacteristically off-colour in their last away fixture, an untimely defeat at Manchester United a fortnight ago. Yet Conte has been hugely encouraged by his players’ response to that loss at Old Trafford, with second-placed Tottenham Hotspur beaten in the FA Cup semi-final and Southampton subsequently overcome in midweek.
A victory on Merseyside would re-establish a seven-point lead at the top for a few hours at least, transferring the pressure back on to Spurs for their eagerly anticipated north London derby. “This game is another step, another very important step,” says Conte, who is expected to recall Pedro in place of Cesc Fàbregas. “When you arrive at this moment at the end of the season, every single game is a test, a psychological test. Every game is very important, every single game. An easy game on paper becomes a tough game, which is why we have to go step by step. It’s important I send the right message to my players and that they think the same way as me. One game at a time.
“I always thought this week would be very important for us. For sure, after the United defeat, it wasn’t easy to face this type of moment. Above all because after the United loss we saw the lead was only four points and then we had to play a semi-final against Tottenham, our closest opponents in the league. After that game we had another match two and a half days later against Southampton, a team who had rested up for 10 days. So that was a good test for us, of our mental condition. So I considered this week crucial, both in terms of our FA Cup challenge and also for the league.
“The answer has been very good from my players so far but this crucial week is not over yet. We have to focus and prepare for the Everton game in the right way. I always knew we would have to fight until the end in this league. I looked at our fixtures and I saw the difficulty of the games we had to face. For this reason, even when we were 13 points or 10 points ahead, I said we’d have to fight until the end to win the title. I’m sure that whoever does end up winning the title will only do so by one or two points, not a lot of points.”
Conte has spoken of the progress players such as Eden Hazard have made this season in terms of coping with the pressure but he will lean on the side’s seasoned campaigners in what remains of the run‑in to see his team over the line.
Chelsea have 11 players who have played significant roles in claiming the Premier League title in the past – 10 from their last triumph in 2015 and N’Golo Kanté from Leicester – with the manager particularly encouraged by the sight of Diego Costa ending a seven-game scoring drought in midweek.
The game at Goodison Park inevitably draws the focus towards Costa and Romelu Lukaku, whom Chelsea may seek to re-sign should the Spain forward, as anticipated, depart for the Chinese Super League this summer. Lukaku is the top flight’s leading scorer this season, in his most prolific spell since departing Stamford Bridge for around £28m in 2014, but has opted against signing a new contract and is thought to favour a return to west London.
Yet, while Chelsea will make clear their interest this summer, Conte’s priority is coaxing more from Costa after his double against Southampton. “I hope it will be Diego who decides this match because that means we win the game,” he says. “We are talking about two great strikers. But you know that Diego, for me, is the best striker in the world. I hope he will be decisive in this game and from now on until the end of the season.
“In this part of the season, for sure, it’s very important to have players with good personality, with good strong characters, because you must always be ready to face a different situation.
“Before, during and after the games. It’s important to have strong players with strong characters but I think, in the team, we have a lot of warriors. I work every day to bring them to be warriors. I think it’s great to have talent but I like a lot when you are a warrior during the game and, above all, if players with talent show they work hard during a match.”
Manchester City Women beat Lyon 1-0 in the second leg of their Women’s Champions League semi-final at Park OL but they missed out on June’s final in Cardiff after a 3-2 aggregate defeat.
Carli Lloyd broke the deadlock for City in the 57th minute when Lyon goalkeeper Sarah Bouhaddi played the ball straight to the American, who fired back past her into the net.
It was too little for City to progress after their hopes of reaching a first final were slim at best having fallen to a 3-1 defeat in the first leg.
Saki Kumagai, Dzsenifer Marozsan and Eugenie Le Sommer were all on target for Lyon on that occasion, with Kosovare Asllani scoring the English side’s only goal.
Lyon will play Paris Saint-Germain Women in an all-French final after they defeated Barcelona Women 2-0 (5-1 on aggregate).
Luis Suárez scored twice as Barcelona moved back to the top of La Liga after a 3-0 derby win at Espanyol.
With Real Madrid having produced a late victory over Valencia earlier, the pressure was firmly back on Luis Enrique’s side.
Unlike at Málaga this month, there was no slip up as Suárez latched on to a stray backpass to put Barcelona ahead early in the second half.
Ivan Rakitic made sure of the points with 15 minutes left when he slotted in on the break before Suárez rolled in a late third following more shambolic defending from the hosts.
Barcelona were without captain Andrés Iniesta through a groin injury, but had Brazil forward Neymar available again following his suspension.
Suárez returned to lead the attack after being an unused substitute for the 7-1 trashing of bottom club Osasuna at the Camp Nou on Wednesday night.
Espanyol, meanwhile, were looking to respond against their local rivals following two LaLiga matches without a victory as they aimed to cement a place in the top 10.
The home side created an early opening when José Manuel Jurado was played into the Barcelona area but shot wide.
Barcelona slowly grew into the game, and as the half-hour passed Suárez cut inside, but could not find either Neymar and Lionel Messi in the Espanyol penalty area before Sergi Roberto sent a header into the sidenetting.
Suárez had been without a goal in three games, but was gifted the opener five minutes into the second half.
Midfielder Jurado decided to play a long diagonal ball back towards his goalkeeper from the right, which allowed Suárez to race clear and fire past the exposed Diego López.
Neymar was close to adding a second on the hour with a curling shot which Lopez tipped over.
At the other end, Barcelona keeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen was finally called into some meaningful action when he smothered Jurado’s angled drive.
With quarter-of-an-hour left, Rakitic made it 2-0 after Lionel Messi charged into the Espanyol penalty area before rolling the ball sideways for the Croatian to slot inside the far post.
On 85 minutes, Espanyol pressed the self-destruct button again as Aaron Martin completely missed his attempted clearance in the six-yard box, with the ball spinning to the feet of Suárez who sidestepped the keeper before tapping into the net.
Barcelona moved back level on points with Real Madrid, top on head-to-head record, but having played a match more than their title rivals.
Marcelo came to Real Madrid’s rescue to secure a 2-1 win over Valencia, provisionally taking Zinedine Zidane’s side three points clear at the top of La Liga, moments after they had conceded a potentially crucial equaliser.
At the bottom, Granada, managed by Tony Adams for the remainder of the season, were relegated following a 2-1 defeat at Real Sociedad, leaving Adams’s side 10 points adrift of safety with three games left. They join basement club Osasuna in the Segunda Division next season.
For the best teams dealing with adversity is second nature. Losing a game, especially a big one, inevitably leaves a few psychological scars. It happens to everyone, even at the top. The trick is developing and maintaining a mentality tough enough to ensure that self-doubt, kryptonite for any professional athlete, is kept at a safe enough distance to ensure that the mind does not conspire against the body. By working hard and keeping the faith, the chances of one setback turning into a crisis are diminished.
Momentum matters, of course. When Chelsea lost at Manchester United two weeks ago and allowed Tottenham Hotspur a scent of blood in the title race, what came next was as much a test of their mental strength as of their footballing ability. They had two options available, weakness or defiance, and chose the latter by winning their FA Cup semi-final against Tottenham last weekend. Three days later Chelsea beat Southampton and Antonio Conte praised his players for taking a “big psychological step” towards the title.
How Arsène Wenger must wish he could lavish such praise on his team. After delving deep into their well of toughness to defeat Manchester City from a goal down at Wembley last week, Arsenal will face Chelsea in next month’s FA Cup final, offering Wenger an opportunity to end a troubled season with a trophy. Even more importantly Wenger’s side head to White Hart Lane for Sunday afternoon’s north London derby still part of the scramble for Champions League qualification after the late and fortunate victory over Leicester on Wednesday, and it is not hard to imagine the Frenchman signing that two-year contract extension if he can pull off yet another top-four finish.
Arsenal have slumped 14 points behind Tottenham but have improved since switching to a back three after the appalling defeat at Crystal Palace three weeks ago, winning three consecutive matches and still able to secure Champions League football again. Manchester City and Liverpool are catchable. With six matches remaining, Arsenal are five points off the warm embrace of fourth.
It is how they roll. They torment and tease their fans with their flakiness, starting seasons promisingly before unravelling at the first sign of trouble. Then comes the recovery, the late spurt that rescues respectability and maintains the cosy status quo, at the end of which Arsenal end up more or less where they started, no closer to making the leap from good to great.
The problem with standing still in a ruthless world is being overtaken by one’s rivals, however, and this could be the year when Arsenal’s complacency finally catches up with them, the year when they find themselves shoved out of the exclusive club they have been members of throughout the Wenger era.
There was a sense of the inertia at the Emirates when Wenger spoke about how Arsenal struggled to recover from the shock of their humiliating defeats against Bayern Munich and Chelsea in February. He likened Arsenal to a boxer lying dazed on the canvas. Yet other teams clamber off the floor and start punching immediately, using their humiliation as fuel for revenge. Arsenal take too long to stand up again. When they do, their knockout blow never follows.
“We lost a little bit and people interpreted that as them not caring,” Wenger said. “No. Maybe it’s because they care very much that we were like that – shocked. We were shocked.”
No one watching from the sidelines was shocked by Arsenal losing badly at Stamford Bridge and, for the seventh year in a row, in the last 16 of the Champions League. But the problem since then has been their response and Wenger briefly sounded indignant about the way confidence deserted his players. “The turning point is that you have to revolt and say: ‘Come on, that cannot go on,’” he said, hinting at harsh words in the dressing room.
Yet the malaise was allowed to fester for far too long. “You cannot stop that,” Wenger said. “You have just seen Bayern went out against Real Madrid and they lost in the cup. It’s part of being disappointed. When you care and you have a big disappointment, it takes you a little bit of time to recover. It happens to everybody, to every team. Paris Saint-Germain went out against Barcelona and they were in shock. Why? Because they wanted to win the Champions League.”
It sounds convincing but there is a failure of logic here. Four days after Barcelona’s Champions League exit, they won the clásico. Perhaps Lionel Messi was able to score that 92nd-minute winner at the Bernabéu last Sunday because he was not disappointed enough about losing to Juventus.
Managers have a role to play in this area. Under Wenger Arsenal have failed to react with enough urgency. Under Conte Chelsea have repeatedly bounced back. “Chelsea didn’t play in Europe,” Wenger said. “Spurs did not qualify in Europe. They went out in the Champions League group stage, so they had time to get out of that. It is not like in March, you get knocked out, it is different.”
But Spurs have endured disappointment. Knocked out of the Europa League by Gent in February, they put together a winning run in the league. Beaten by Chelsea at Wembley, four days later they kept themselves within touching distance of Conte’s side thanks to Christian Eriksen’s late winner at Palace.
The debate over the title’s destination remains alive. It damns Wenger’s Arsenal that the conversation is taking place in a different room.
Harry Kane, it is merely the latest marker of Tottenham Hotspur’s progress under Mauricio Pochettino. The club have north London bragging rights in their sights – finally. If they beat Arsenal in the derby at White Hart Lane on Sunday, they will finish above them in the Premier League table for the first time since 1994-95.
Back then, Gerry Francis was in charge at Tottenham, having taken over from Ossie Ardiles in November 1994, while Arsenal also underwent a managerial change during the season – Stewart Houston stepping in to replace George Graham, who was sacked in February 1995 after the bungs scandal. Spurs finished seventh, Arsenal 12th.
Kane was not even two years old at the time but, as he grew up in a Tottenham household, the striker came to know all about Arsenal’s hold over his club and, specifically, what it meant to the fans. The annual marking of St Totteringham’s Day by Arsenal supporters became a thing and it was celebrated with particular ridicule at the end of last season. Spurs had been in a two-horse race for the title with Leicester and yet they contrived to finish third – below the surprise champions and Arsenal.
Kane, of all people, could be forgiven for wanting to talk up the prospect of Tottenham being able to look down on Arsenal at the end of a season but, in keeping with the message from Pochettino, he sees a bigger picture. To both of them, the neighbourhood spat seems trivial – parochial, even – when placed in the context of Spurs’ battle with Chelsea for the title.
“Exactly,” Kane says. “And it shows how far we’ve come in a short amount of time. Since the gaffer has been here, he’s changed everything and he’s been fantastic. You see the belief in the squad; you see the way we play.
“Sometimes, we win 4-0 and we play fantastically and then there are nights like last Wednesday at Crystal Palace when we have to dig deep and get a 1-0 win. We did that and it shows we can do both sides of the game. We’ve got to do that until the end of the season.
“For the fans, it would be great to finish above Arsenal and actually do it by winning against them but, from our point of view, we’ve got bigger things to look forward to. We’ve got to try and win that game to keep the pressure on Chelsea as much as we can.”
Chelsea are four points clear of Tottenham, with five matches to play. The leaders face Everton at Goodison Park before the derby kicks off at 4.30pm. Arsenal lag 18 points behind Chelsea. “We’ll probably be watching Chelsea while we’re waiting for our game,” Kane says. “But we’ve just got to keep winning. The derby is massive.”
There was plenty of talk in the aftermath of Tottenham’s win at Palace about how they had shown their mental toughness and maturity to bounce back from last Saturday’s FA Cup semi-final defeat against Chelsea. They have now won eight league matches in a row. Kane knows that it is Pochettino who has driven the change in the club’s mentality.
“The gaffer has installed his philosophy with the way we play – the pressing and getting the ball down – but he’s also installed that steel in us; that we’ve just got to find a way to win. He’s a very passionate manager and that bleeds into the rest of the team.”
Castleford powered back to the top of the table in style with their biggest Super League win over Wigan. The scrum-half Luke Gale needed to pass a head test before kick-off to take his place in the Tigers side and he gave the Warriors an almighty headache with a 20-point haul, comprising eight goals from nine attempts and one of their nine tries.
This rout enabled Castleford to complete the double over the champions and demonstrate a sizzling return to form after back-to-back defeats by St Helens and Hull had cast some doubt on their title credentials.
The victory topped the Yorkshire club’s previous biggest win over Wigan, a 42-14 success in 2015, and followed a 66-10 rout of Leeds this year.
Wigan had the chance to go top after three successive wins but were dealt a severe blow with the loss of their scrum-half Thomas Leuluai with a broken jaw and little went right for them all night.
They had two players sent to the sin-bin and lost three to injury, including the stand-off George Williams; he was subsequently ruled out of England’s Test match against Samoa on Saturday.
Gale, on the other hand, showed he will go into the international in peak form, along with his club-mates Mike McMeeken and Zak Hardaker, while the centre Michael Shenton presented a powerful argument for a place in England’s World Cup squad.
Gale made his mark a minute into the game when he supported a break by Shenton and, although he was hauled down 10 metres short of the line by Morgan Escaré, the Wigan defence could not regroup in time to prevent the loose forward Adam Milner forcing his way over from the resulting play-the-ball.
Shenton then accepted Hardaker’s pass to cross for a try and Gale’s second goal made it 12-0 after only eight minutes.
Both teams suffered early disruption, with the centre Anthony Gelling going off for Wigan and the Castleford stand-off Ben Roberts limping down the tunnel, but the Tigers had the luxury of a like-for-like replacement on the bench in Rangi Chase, who had been on stand-by for Gale.
Willie Isa took Gelling’s place while Chase slotted effortlessly into Castleford’s well-oiled machine as Gale extended their lead to 14-0 with a 19th-minute penalty.
Wigan had prop Frank-Paul Nu’uausala sent to the sin-bin for dissent but scored their only try while down to 12 men, Sam Powell handing off Milner to stroll over the line.
Escaré was wide with the conversion attempt when he had a red haze from a smoke bomb among the Wigan fans behind the posts in his eyeline and they conceded straight away after gifting the ball back to their opponents, substitute Matt Cook bulldozing his way over with his first touch of the ball.
McMeeken showed his class with a fend on Williams and a nice turn of pace to stroll through for Castleford’s next try as Gale extended the lead to 26-4 by the break.
Wigan’s debutant hooker Josh Ganson, son of the referees’ chief Steve Ganson, was unfortunate to have a try disallowed just before half-time when the in-goal judge ruled he failed to ground the ball, and any hope of a revival disappeared when Williams failed to re-appear for the second half.
Things went from bad to worse for Wigan when Escaré was sent to the sin-bin for a high tackle on Gale and this time they conceded three tries while down to 12 men.
Winger Greg Minikin took Chase’s cut-out pass to score his 11th try of the campaign, while Gale grabbed his 10th after working a one-two with Grant Millington, who supported a break by hooker Paul McShane to go over on 52 minutes.
More slick handling led the centre Jake Webster to power his way over wide out and Hardaker sent Minikin over for his second of the match as the Tigers piled on the agony for their stricken visitors, who had Flower carried off on 59 minutes.
Castleford were in such total control that they able to bring off Gale eight minutes from the end but McShane followed his vice-captain’s lead when he took over the goalkicking duties by landing a touchline conversion.
It was something Paul Merson said during that raw television interview a couple of Fridays ago that lingers in the mind. You might not always agree with Merson’s football opinions but there are times when that does not really matter. Earlier that day, his former team-mate Ugo Ehiogu, the friend he described as a “man-mountain”, had died from a heart attack, aged 44, and now Merson was in a television studio when it would probably have been kinder to allow him some time alone and he was trying to make sense of it all. He couldn’t, but it was some tribute. “You know what,” he said, and he was struggling to get out the words. “Billy Joel sings that song Only The Good Die Young. And that is him.”
To be pedantic, that song was actually about something entirely different when it was recorded in 1977, prompting a number of religious groups to pressure various radio stations to remove it from their playlists. Yet we all knew what Merson meant, we all probably know others it could apply to and no doubt there will be plenty of people – Merson, again, included in that number – who will be thinking the same about David Rocastle in the next few days.
I mention Rocastle because if everything had turned out differently, if the cancer had not spread so devastatingly, it would have been his 50th birthday this coming Tuesday. Rocastle was dead at 33. It’s a brutal, indiscriminate disease and anyone who has seen a friend or relative in its final stages will probably understand why, in his last few months, the small group of people he allowed to see him found his appearance so shocking.
Those toned, muscular legs – “thighs like tree trunks”, Tony Adams once said – had become little more than skin and bone. The shiny black hair had fallen out. His cheeks were hollowed and his glasses suddenly seemed too big for his face, propped up on sharp cheekbones. There were scorch marks on his chest, a legacy of his chemotherapy and all the poison that had been pumped into his system in an attempt to curb the disease. It hadn’t worked but the people closest to Rocastle remember he always thought there would be another solution – a miracle, perhaps. “Rocky”, as he was commonly known, even turned away the Marie Curie nurses, convinced he was going to beat it.
At the end, his younger brother, Steve, was holding his hand. The last time their mother, Linda, had heard from her eldest son was a few days earlier when he rang to wish her happy Mother’s Day and, breathless, barely had the strength to complete his sentences. “I’ll be all right once I’ve had some sleep,” he assured her. “Love you.”
It was the following morning he started drifting in and out of consciousness and, after that, his condition rapidly went downhill. He died with an Arsenal shirt by his side, “Rocastle” emblazoned across the back, brought to him by David Dein, the club’s then vice-chairman.
Then, like now, there was a north London derby and perhaps this is an appropriate time to remember what happened at that game and remind ourselves that, however tribal this sport can feel sometimes, there is a level of decency, too, and occasions that unite people who otherwise give the impression they do not particularly like sharing each other’s oxygen.
On that afternoon at Highbury, just a few hours after the news had broken, there was enough concern about the Spurs fans disrupting the minute’s silence it was suggested to the referee, Paul Durkin, he should blow his whistle prematurely as soon as he heard anything untoward, to try to minimise the risk of trouble between the rival supporters.
As it was, the tribute went ahead without the faintest interruption for the man Michael Hart summed up in London’s Evening Standard as a “throwback to a bygone age, a young footballer who retained a charm and sense of perspective at a time when the egoists were about to take over the dressing rooms”.
What would Rocastle have been doing at 50? Coaching, if he got his way. Or at least that was the plan when he retired from playing with a knee injury at the age of 32. But there would have been other options. Rocastle was articulate enough and had the personality – his “knockout smile”, to quote Ken Bates, then the chairman at Chelsea – to suit television. His agent, Jerome Anderson, had floated the idea of him joining the business.
Yet Rocastle wanted to be out in the fresh air and Dein, for one, liked the idea of him returning to Arsenal and mentoring the youth team in the same way that now applies to Steven Gerrard at Liverpool. David O’Leary used to say that if football put together a team of nice guys Rocastle would be the captain. It wouldn’t have automatically made him an elite coach but it would have made him someone the young players respected and wanted to impress.
Instead, his world fell in when he decided it was time to get an expert opinion about the two lumps that had appeared in his armpit. It was non-Hodgkin lymphoma, the same aggressive form of cancer that claimed Gary Ablett 11 years later, and though Rocastle tried to keep some of the shattering details from his family the diagnosis was just another reminder about what a bastard of a disease we are talking about. It was terminal – all the chemotherapy could do, at best, was delay the inevitable. He left a wife, Janet, and three children, Melissa, Ryan and Monique,
The best tribute now is the fact that, 16 years since his death, Arsenal’s fans still sing his name and inevitably will do so again at White Hart Lane on Sunday. Rocastle’s career started to drift once he moved to Leeds in 1992, followed by transfers to Manchester City and Chelsea, at a time when they were very different clubs to today, as well as loan moves to Hull (likewise) and Norwich and even a brief period in Malaysia. But his years at Arsenal, featuring 14 England caps and two league titles, provided the highlights of his show reel. “I’ve seen the nearest thing to a Brazilian footballer you’ll ever see,” Dein once said, “and he’s from Lewisham.”
Rocastle came in at No16 in a vote to find the club’s 50 greatest players and it is no coincidence – and probably a compliment in some form – that Stuart Pearce once tackled him with enough enthusiasm that the man wearing Arsenal’s No7 shirt landed closer to the stand than the pitch. Opponents often tried to kick Rocastle because they knew he had the finesse to get past even the more accomplished defenders. Alan Hansen did it, too, one time. But here was the other thing about Rocastle: he could look after himself. He got back to his feet, smiled and looked his opponent in the eye. “Getting old, Alan?”
These days, the authorities are so jumpy about the possibility of minute’s silences being interrupted they generally ask for applause instead. That is a pity because when a silence is respected it can work beautifully and that day, 31 March 2001, shows the respect there was for Rocastle within the sport. Remember him this week – the smile, the thumbs-up, the chip over Peter Schmeichel – and why it is that all of us should want our footballers to be like him.
“Why is he so fondly remembered?” James Leighton, the author of Rocky, writes in his elegant biography. “Simply, he came across as a beautiful human being. Softly spoken, with a smile permanently etched across his face, he led many, myself included, to think of him as a friend. He was someone you knew you would get on well with. You knew he would be great company. You knew he would be loyal. You knew he would make you feel good about yourself. And isn’t that what heroes are meant to do?”
Why does José Mourinho persist with creating the impression that Chris Smalling and Phil Jones are somehow guilty of professional cowardice by not rushing back from injury sooner, against all medical opinion at Old Trafford, to spare him from having to play Daley Blind in Manchester United’s defence?
In the case of Jones, is it usual to expect a player to run off a broken bone in his foot? Smalling’s knee was in a brace as recently as last week, having jarred ligaments on England duty, and it feels wholly unfair that Mourinho has depicted them as lacking competitive courage.
Indeed, the opposite could be said of Jones, in particular – of all the questions about his suitability for a team with United’s ambitions, accusations of halfheartedness have never surfaced until now.
My suspicion is that Mourinho wants to harden the attitude of everyone at Old Trafford and when he says it was a “nice group” he inherited from Louis van Gaal it is not necessarily meant as a compliment.
A valid point? Very possibly, but there are ways of going about it. Luke Shaw, Anthony Martial and Henrikh Mkhitaryan have all had it in the neck during Mourinho’s press conferences this season and, though United’s 24-match unbeaten run in the league is a measure of his restorative powers, it is this kind of approach that demonstrates why his players tend to feel worn down and mutinous once he has been in position longer than two years.
On one of the last occasions I saw Brian Clough in the flesh he had hijacked one of his son Nigel’s press conferences at Burton Albion and was berating him in front of the cameras for not being overly bothered about the idea of challenging himself at another club. “He’s shaping up to be a good manager but if there’s one weakness it’s that he’s too comfortable,” came the verdict from Old Big ’Ead. “Everyone tells me what a nice lad he is and I’m getting sick of it, to be honest.”
Well, Nigel took the advice, spending several years at Derby County and Sheffield United before returning to Burton, the club he led from the Southern League Premier Division, to inherit the side left by Jimmy Floyd Hasselbaink and winning promotion to the Championship last year with a team whose record transfer was £20,000, set in 2009 when they signed Russell Penn from Kidderminster Harriers.
Burton, under their shrewd chairman, Ben Robinson, have spent a bit more than that this season but still only a pittance compared with some of the teams in England’s second tier and they were the overwhelming favourites, with no argument from Clough himself, to finish in the relegation places. As it is, the team from the Pirelli Stadium, with its 6,912 capacity, have survived with something to spare, beating Derby, Nottingham Forest and Leeds United, among others.
Chris Hughton and Rafael Benítez might be the obvious choices when it comes to selecting the Championship’s manager of the year but perhaps the judges should look a little further down the table.
Bayern Munich secured a record-extending fifth consecutive Bundesliga title after beating Wolfsburg 6-0 to open up an unassailable 10-point lead with three matches remaining. The Bavarians, who have won 27 German championships, are on 73 points, with RB Leipzig in second place on 63 after they were held to a goalless draw by Ingolstadt.
“It is amazing what this team did again this season in the Bundesliga,” said the retiring Bayern captain, Philipp Lahm. “It is not a given we will always march through the league like we did this season.”
The Bundesliga’s leading scorer Robert Lewandowski scored twice to take his league goal tally to 28 and David Alaba, Thomas Müller, Arjen Robben and Joshua Kimmich were also on target as Bayern rode roughshod over the hosts.
Bayern finished off the relegation-threatened Wolves with three more goals in the second half, and the hosts were also reduced to 10 men following the dismissal of former Bayern player Luiz Gustavo.
Bayern had promised to bounce back following their midweek German Cup semi-final defeat to Borussia Dortmund and the Champions League exit to Real Madrid.
They had also failed to win either of their last two league matches, going five games without a win in all competitions. There was not a hint of self-doubt on Saturday as they scored three times before half-time.
“The league is the most honest of titles,” said Bayern’s chief executive Karl-Heinz Rummenigge. “And now we have won it for the fifth straight time. That is something unusual and amazing. We will have a good party tonight and then on the last matchday with the fans.”
Burnley had been waiting almost two years for this sensation but, at last, they have an away win to savour in the Premier League and, with it, surely another season to enjoy plenty more. This was a wonderfully resilient display, a performance forged on strong-arm defence and goalkeeping excellence, to suffocate Crystal Palace’s momentum. Sean Dyche’s team are eight points off the cut-off with winnable games ahead. A fine campaign is tantalisingly close to being rewarded with survival.
The away form feels like an anomaly for a team this organised, but that elusive first triumph on the road will have felt sweeter for all the waiting. The last Burnley player to score a winning goal outside Turf Moor in the top flight had been Danny Ings at Aston Villa on the final day two seasons ago, a victory secured once relegation had already been confirmed. Here the honours fell to Ashley Barnes and the substitute Andre Gray on the counterattack, but the win owed more to the efforts of Tom Heaton, Michael Keane, James Tarkowski and the visitors’ tireless collective work rate.
There were countless headed clearances and timely interceptions. Keane has been excellent all year so his display was perhaps to be expected, but Tarkowski was making a first Premier League start after 15 cameos off the bench. The former Oldham and Brentford defender was struck by a cigarette lighter flung from the home support in the Holmesdale stand – not the first time that offence has occurred from that area – as Burnley’s players celebrated their early lead.
“He wouldn’t have felt it, he’s got a big head,” Dyche said. “Look, Keano often gets the headlines, but Tarky was making his first start against a player like Christian Benteke, gets hit by a lighter and still retains his focus. He was absolutely outstanding.”
As were the entire backline. Time after time, Palace’s delivery ran aground on yellow shirts, with Benteke outnumbered and nullified and Wilfried Zaha whipped up into a frenzy of frustration on the flank. Once the home side’s anxiety had kicked in, there was no recovering composure. Without the reassurance of Mamadou Sakho at the back and Yohan Cabaye’s class in midfield, they were undermined at the end of a draining week. It came as no surprise to see George Boyd liberating Gray five minutes from time to sprint away from Damien Delaney and score emphatically inside Wayne Hennessey’s near-post.
That merely confirmed the worst for Palace. Their disjointed first-half display had given way to more frantic pressure late on, but they ended up infuriated by everything from Burnley’s refusal to wilt to the rather haphazard display from the referee. The focus was drawn to Zaha crumpling under Jon Flanagan’s challenge.
Sam Allardyce said: “He took Wilf’s heel, tackled him from behind and didn’t make contact with the ball so, in my opinion, it’s 100% a penalty. But I’m not sure the referee would have given anything today, inside or outside the box. There were some very strange decisions. Some really poor decisions.”
In truth, the real oversight had been made by a linesman when Zaha sprinted clear 15 minutes in to be clattered by Tom Heaton.
“Wilf’s gone through and is onside, and not just by a few inches … by a yard,” added Allardyce. “That’s a big turning point. An assistant referee puts his flag up and the goalkeeper upends Wilf, which is him sent off and them down to 10.” Heaton would save superbly from Delaney before the end. The goalkeeper is another gem in Burnley’s ranks.
In truth, an 11th home defeat for Palace told a familiar toothless story. This club are still on edge. Seven points clear with three games to play may seem comfortable, but the locals have seen that margin disappear in the final week of a Premier League campaign before to result in demotion. They were panicky here from the moment Luka Milivojevic surrendered possession early on to Sam Vokes. The ball was eventually fed wide to a galloping Stephen Ward and, even with the full-back’s centre initially miscontrolled by Barnes, the striker was still able to tuck home the opening goal from close range.
They created other opportunities, with Hennessey and Martin Kelly denying Vokes his own plunder, but needed only Gray’s to secure the point. “This win has been coming,” said Dyche. “We got our tactical plans right today, and the players delivered them to perfection.” He is not resting on his laurels quite yet but Burnley are two points off ninth and as good as safe. For once, they could enjoy a long journey home.
• Blackburn Rovers took the fight for Championship survival to the final day of the season with a 1-0 win over Aston Villa at Ewood Park, courtesy of Danny Graham steering home after 54 minutes. The win brought Rovers level with Nottingham Forest, who lost 2-0 at QPR, confirming Rangers’ safety in the process. Both sides have 48 points; Forest host Ipswich in their final game, and Blackburn head to Brentford.
• Burton Albion also secured their Championship status, capping a fine campaign for the club under Nigel Clough, who led them out of League One last year. However Wigan, automatically promoted with Burton last season, had their relegation confirmed with a 1-0 defeat at Reading, via Yann Kermorgant’s 17th goal of the season. With Rotherham already down, the final relegation spot looks to be between Forest and Blackburn; Birmingham City moved two points clear of the pair in Harry Redknapp’s second game in charge, beating Huddersfield 2-0 having missed a penalty and played with 10 men for most of the game.
• The fight to be champions will also go to the final day after Brighton lost 1-0 at home to Bristol City. Josh Brownhill’s 43rd-minute goal ensured the Seasiders’ latest promotion party fell flat and secured City’s Championship status for another season. Brighton must now win away at Aston Villa next Sunday to make sure of the title. Newcastle, a point behind the leaders after a 2-0 win at Cardiff City on Friday night, are at home to Barnsley in their final game and will be champions if they better Brighton’s result.
• Leeds United fell just short of a miraculous comeback at Elland Road against Norwich City, effectively ending their top-six chase for another season. Steven Naismith and two Nélson Oliveira strikes put Norwich three ahead in the first half but Chris Wood’s 29th goal of the season just before the break gave Leeds hope. Kyle Bartley and a brilliant Pablo Hernández free-kick brought the game back to 3-3, but Garry Monk’s side couldn’t muster a winner and will surely finish the season in seventh.
• Leeds’ result means Reading, Sheffield Wednesday and Fulham – barring a turnaround that makes up three points and a 13-goal deficit – are all in the play-offs, joining Huddersfield in a four-way shootout for that lucrative promotion place. Keiran Lee’s late goal gave Wednesday a 1-0 win at Ipswich, while Fulham drew their west London derby with Brentford 1-1, in which Daniel Bentley brilliantly saved Tom Cairney’s penalty and rebound – Fulham’s ninth spot-kick miss from 13 taken this season.
• Hartlepool United survived another week, but it will take a shock on the final day of the season if they are to extend their 96-year stay in the Football League. The club, who sacked Dave Jones this week, lost 1-0 at fellow strugglers Cheltenham, who sealed their survival in the process. But Newport could not take advantage, letting a lead slip at Carlisle via a goal from Jabo Ibehre and a stunning Nicky Adams strike in the space of two minutes. Hartlepool remain two points behind, however, and will have to beat high-flying Doncaster on the final day to have any hope of staying up.
• Unfortunately for Hartlepool, Doncaster will be determined having ceded top spot in a 3-1 defeat at home to Exeter. Nathan Blissett’s late header from six yards against Crewe gave Plymouth Argyle a 2-1 home win which moved them one point clear of Doncaster and two of Portsmouth and put them in charge in the title race
• The top three are well clear but two of the play-off places remain wide open. Luton and Exeter were the two sides to make certain of a top-seven finish, but below them seven teams are separated by only three points. Mansfield fell to the bottom of that pack with a 1-0 defeat to Pompey, Cambridge kept in the hunt after beating Crawley 2-0, and Blackpool wasted their chance to seal a play-off place in a 1-0 defeat to Notts County.
• Supporters of doomed Leyton Orient invaded the pitch after 85 minutes while losing 3-1 against Colchester at the Matchroom Stadium, halting the game to protest against the ownership of the club who are heading down to the National League. The match was eventually announced as being abandoned. However … once the fans had been emptied from the ground, an unlikely restart took place, with the game kicking off again at 6.43pm BST. A non-event subsequently took place, the match petering out to a 3-1 Colchester win. The EFL later issued a statement on the remarkable scenes:
#EFL media advisory - @leytonorientfc v @ColU_Official pic.twitter.com/Hd614nUqkE
• And York City, relegated from League Two last season, have been relegated again after mustering only a draw on the final day of the National League season at home to Forest Green when a win would have sent Guiseley down in their place. The veteran striker Jon Parkin twice equalised for the Minstermen but they could not find a crucial winner to survive and the National League North now awaits – the first visit to the sixth tier of English football in the club’s 95-year history. “I’m just sorry for everybody at the moment” said the York manager, Gary Mills, after the game. “It hurts, it’ll hurt for a while but that’s the situation we’re in. This is a special football club. I’m sorry we found ourselves in this situation but we have. We have to stay proud. On a personal note, I’m absolutely devastated.”
Lewis Hamilton admitted that he did not have the pace to match his Ferrari rival Sebastian Vettel after the German and his team brought Mercedes’ dominance in qualifying to an end with a front row lockout for the Russian Grand Prix, their first since the 2008 race in France. The performance demonstrated definitively the resurgence of the Scuderia that has ignited the new Formula One season.
Vettel claimed pole with a perfect lap and was followed by his team-mate, Kimi Raikkonen, in second. Hamilton, who had struggled bringing his tyres into their operating window all weekend and with his car’s setup, qualified in fourth behind his team-mate, Valtteri Bottas. “I just wasn’t quick enough today,” said the British driver. “It was all in the last sector, I’ve been struggling there all weekend with the balance and it’s been tough to utilise the tyres.”
After three years of Mercedes dominance, during which Hamilton has won two of his three world championships, he acknowledged that this year Ferrari are proving to be a more than significant threat. “Ferrari did a great job,” he said. “That was the best job I could do today.”
Hamilton was uncharacteristically short of confidence that he could come back against the Ferraris on Sunday. “Currently we are fourth, it’s very hard to overtake and their race pace was better than mine,” he said. “I was more than half a second off the pace today. But we will do some studying and try and turn negatives into positives. Who knows, we should hopefully be in a better position tomorrow.”
This is the first time Mercedes have not had a car on the front row for 31 races and the first time they have not claimed pole for 18 consecutive meetings. Vettel, who leads the Briton by seven points in the world championship, appreciated the significance of the achievement. “Mercedes have been very, very dominant the last years in qualifying, so it’s good to get there,” he said. “It’s been a mega qualifying. The car was really nice to drive and it’s a track where it comes alive.
“I’m sure tomorrow it will be tight with Mercedes. But, as I’ve said many times, I’m happy we got the result today and for the team it’s fantastic.”
The Mercedes executive director, Toto Wolff, conceded that his team were in a real fight and would have to improve. “It was not a fantastic day today,” he said. “Our record of many pole positions in a row ended because we couldn’t put it together. Now we need to learn out lesson and stick our heads together and make it better.”
David Moyes experienced the worst day of his career in football as Sunderland’s 10-year Premier League tenure ended with a 1-0 defeat at home to Bournemouth and the Stadium of Light echoed to chants demanding his dismissal.
Relegation to the Championship was most definitely not what the former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad manager envisaged when he succeeded Sam Allardyce last July and explains why, on the eve of the match, Moyes revealed he was considering his future. Sunderland’s seventh manager in six years is expected to step down this summer but before finalising any decision he will meet Ellis Short, the club’s owner and Martin Bain, the chief executive.
“I don’t think today’s the right time to talk about my future. That’s a conversation for another day I need to wait and gather my thoughts,” said an unusually subdued and quietly spoken Moyes.
“I’ll sit down with Ellis and Martin in the next week or so and speak about it but I’m more concerned about the people who follow the club. My emotions are with the people in this area, they’re the ones I feel for.”
The Scot – a candidate to succeed Gordon Strachan as his country’s coach this summer – readily agreed that relegation represented a personal nadir before apologising to Sunderland fans. “It’s my worst day in football, definitely the worst day, but my thoughts are with the supporters,” he said. “I’m just sorry we weren’t able to do a better job.
“I don’t think this is the time to offer them a reason why but they come here in their thousands week in week out and travel the country in their thousands as well. I’m so disappointed we couldn’t give them more. I know that cash isn’t always easy to come by in this part of the country, so I appreciate every penny they put into the club by watching the team. I hoped relegation would never come.”
Although shouldering a degree of responsibility, Moyes emphasised that he viewed this season as a collective failure at a club that have flirted with the Championship for the past five seasons and are £110m in debt, up for sale and carry one of the Premier League’s top-10 wage bills. With scores of staff about to be made redundant and nine senior players out of contract next month the future could scarcely be more uncertain. “There’s no criticism of the players, of their effort or commitment, they played as well as they could,” said a manager disappointed by the degree of transfer market backing he received from Short. “But I’m experienced, I know what a Premier League squad looks like and I’ve felt right from the start we’ve been a little short of the quality we need.
“The problem’s been a collective thing from top to bottom here, I don’t think it’s down to any one person. It’s been a long hard season of not winning games and that drags everyone down. You don’t feel good about it but we’ll regroup, take a bit of time and see what to do.”
In a statement, Short apologised and admitted mistakes: “Like any supporter my initial reaction is one of sadness, disappointment, anger and frustration,” he said. “It’s hard for everyone to take. It’s an especially cruel blow for our supporters and I am truly sorry we have not been able to retain our top-flight status for them.
“I acknowledge that during my ownership mistakes have been made, particularly in the area of player recruitment and we are paying the price for that now. We need to improve both on and off the field and there is a strong determination to do so.”
Eddie Howe was sympathetic. “David’s an outstanding manager and he will come back from this,” said Bournemouth’s manager, who saw Josh King score the game’s only goal in the 88th minute. “It’s sad to see a big club like Sunderland go down but the Premier League is unforgiving, it’s such a good standard this year and small margins decide important things.”
With his side stuck to the bottom and 13 points adrift of 17th-placed Hull, Moyes’s problem is that the gap between Sunderland and much of the division has become embarrassingly wide.
Marcelo came to Real Madrid’s rescue to secure a 2-1 win over Valencia, provisionally taking Zinedine Zidane’s side three points clear at the top of La Liga, moments after they had conceded a potentially crucial equaliser.
Cristiano Ronaldo scored his first goal in five league games to put Real ahead in the 27th minute but in the second half had a penalty saved by Diego Alves, who turned away a league-record sixth spot-kick of the campaign.
Valencia pulled level in the 82nd minute with a thumping free-kick from Dani Parejo, the former Real academy player who had fouled Luka Modric for the penalty.
Marcelo quickly restored Real’s lead, however, by cutting inside from the left-hand side of the area and curling the ball under Alves with his weaker right foot, keeping Real on course for a first title since 2012.
Real top the standings on 81 points after 34 games although the champions Barcelona, who have also played 34, could take their place at the summit due to their superior head-to-head record if they beat their city rivals Espanyol later on Saturday.
Granada’s run of six consecutive seasons in La Liga ended following a 2-1 defeat at Real Sociedad, leaving Tony Adams’s side 10 points adrift of safety with three games left. They join basement club Osasuna in the Segunda Division next season.
Mark Selby said it would be a dream come true to become a three-times world champion after he set up a Crucible final showdown with John Higgins.
The emotion of reaching another world championship final was clear as Selby bellowed “Come on!” and struck the table once he crossed the winning line against Ding Junhui.
The 33-year-old from Leicester won the semi-final 17-15, while Higgins needed one frame of the evening session to wrap up a 17-8 win over an out-of-sorts Barry Hawkins, firing a 120 break. Explaining his raucous reaction, Selby said: “It was more a relief than anything else.”
He had capitalised on a golden chance left to him by Ding, who missed the blue when looking like he might level the match and force a deciding frame. Selby’s 72 break nudged him to victory.
“I told myself that even if I took two minutes on every shot, make sure you don’t do something silly,” Selby said. “That was my chance and if I didn’t take it then I think the match would have got away from me and Ding could have come through. I made sure I didn’t rush anything even though the adrenaline was pumping.”
Now the 41-year-old Higgins stands in the way of the world No1 and a third triumph in Sheffield in four years. The four-times champion becomes the oldest finalist since the 49-year-old Ray Reardon lost to Alex Higgins in 1982.
Selby is the modern master of the sport, succeeding Higgins, Ronnie O’Sullivan and the retired Stephen Hendry. But he knows in Higgins he will be tackling a player who, though no longer as consistent as he was once, knows exactly what it takes to triumph in Sheffield.
“I can’t wait. It’s going to be a fantastic occasion,” Selby said. “He’s a great player. One of the greats of the game. It’s going to be another tough match. If he wins another one he’ll be equalling O’Sullivan, trying to create a bit of history himself.”
Selby potted fewer balls and scored fewer points than Ding, but plotted his way to victory all the same. It is hard to imagine a tougher match player than Selby, and such wins demonstrate why he has topped the world rankings for the last two years and is pulling away.
Higgins, whose match against Hawkins was a stodgy, error-ridden affair, said: “I definitely need to raise my game. The good thing is I know what I’ve got to do. It’s one last massive game for the season and I’ll give it everything and see where it takes me. I feel absolutely fine.”
The final is a replay, a decade on, of their 2007 final meeting, when Higgins saw off a 23-year-old Selby who was far from the finished article he is now. “It’s roles reversed,” Higgins said. “Ten years ago I’d have been a big favourite to win but obviously Mark’s the favourite this time and I’m the underdog.
“I’ll be nervous. As you get older I feel the nerves are harder to suppress. I’m sure I’ll be a bag of nerves before it starts but then I’m sure I’ll settle down and we’ll hopefully give everyone a good final.”
Hawkins and Ding headed for home, both magnanimous in defeat.
There was no doubt Hawkins was off his game, and he said: “I think I dragged John down in the end. I played so badly and I think he struggled as well. You won’t find many days when John plays like that, and I didn’t capitalise. It’s just another bad day at the office.”
Ding’s reaction to bowing out to Selby was obvious frustration, given his impressive performance over the last fortnight and the fact he lost to the same opponent in last year’s final.
Ding said: “I’m disappointed to have lost when I played so well but that is sport. Before I missed the blue in the last frame I thought I was going to level at 16-all, but sadly that didn’t happen.
“However I have improved and have been a lot more confident and aggressive here so that is good. On this performance I think Mark Selby is the favourite to win the title.”
Andy Murray’s chequered start to life as the world’s top player continued with a first defeat to Dominic Thiem, the talented ninth-ranked Austrian, in the semi-finals of the Barcelona Open.
Murray, still feeling his way back on to the Tour after more than a month on the sidelines with an elbow injury, was beaten 6-2, 3-6, 6-4 in two hours and 13 minutes. In a match defined by the ups and downs of an opponent whose searing power frequently overshadowed his consistency, Murray fought back from a subdued start but was ultimately edged out by Thiem in a tense finale.
If it was not the outcome that Murray had hoped for, he can at least reflect on a week of solid progress following an inauspicious start to the clay-court season at last week’s Monte Carlo Masters. As for Thiem, through to the seventh final of his career on the red stuff, his first win over a reigning world No1 will be cause for encouragement as he seeks to build on last year’s run to the French Open semi-finals.
As in the previous round against Albert Ramos-Viñolas, his surprise conqueror in Monte Carlo, Murray quickly fell behind. He dropped serve in the opening game, a tentative drop shot perhaps betraying early doubts in the face of some ferocious hitting from Thiem, and the setback set the tone for the remainder of the set. The Austrian’s superior confidence, power and movement earned him two further breaks and, although Murray clawed back the first courtesy of a Thiem double-fault, he rarely looked comfortable.
The Scot sportingly conceded the opening set when another thumping Thiem drive, mistakenly called long, sent him scrambling fruitlessly to his forehand corner. The umpire, Fergus Murphy, called for a let, but Murray generously indicated he would have been unable to put the ball back in play. The top seed soon gave the lie to any suspicion that he was in benevolent mood, however, surviving break points in the first and seventh games of the second set as a nip-and-tuck contest unfolded, more in keeping with their previous two meetings.
The second of Thiem’s two missed chances, which came and went when he lashed a forehand long, seemed to afford Murray a significant boost as he sought to make it three wins in three. Lingering disappointment appeared the only explanation for the glaring errors that followed, the Austrian missing a sitter at deuce in the next game before screwing a forehand wide.
Serving with greater bite and consistency than he had in the opener, when barely half his first deliveries found the court and he won just 17% of the points behind his second, Murray quickly evened the contest. But a rapid exchange of breaks in the opening two games of the decider signalled that the younger man, a semi-finalist at Roland Garros last year, was not about to go away.
So it proved. Thiem rediscovered his early form to move a break ahead and although Murray levelled the match at 4-4 the 23-year-old was not to be denied. He held to move within a game of the final and converted his first match point with a well-judged topspin lob that left Murray flailing.
Thiem will face Rafael Nadal, the winner of the second semi-final. The third seed and nine-times champion defeated Horacio Zeballos of Argentina 6-3, 6-4.
There was better news for British tennis as Aljaz Bedene secured a place in the final of the Hungarian Open with a straight-sets win over Laslo Djere. The British No4 forced two early breaks to take charge of the opening set and went on to close out a 6-2, 6-4 victory in one hour and 19 minutes.
The win was a 16th in succession for Bedene, who secured back-to-back titles on the second-tier Challenger Tour before coming through qualifying in Budapest. Bedene upset second seed Ivo Karlovic in the quarter-finals.
Bedene, 27, was ranked outside the top 100 at the beginning of March, but his winning run promises a return to the top 50 for the Slovenia-born player. In the final, his first on the ATP World Tour since 2015, Bedene will face Lucas Pouille of France, the top seed and world No14, who beat Italy’s Paolo Lorenzi 6-2, 7-5.
When Maria Sharapova began her comeback from a 15-month drug ban in Germany this week, she may have imagined she was returning to the same sporting landscape she left behind at last year’s Australian Open. Kristina Mladenovic, a third-round loser at that event, invited her to consider a rather different reality with a 3-6, 7-5, 6-4 win in their Porsche Grand Prix semi-final in Stuttgart.
While victory would have secured Sharapova’s eligibility for the qualifying competition at next month’s French Open, the former world No1, twice champion at Roland Garros, will now have to rely on the goodwill of Bernard Giudicelli, the French federation president, who talked of the need to “take the right decision” after meeting Sharapova in Los Angeles recently.
Giudicelli will deliver his verdict on 15 May, which should give Sharapova ample time to reflect on this defeat to Mladenovic from a set and a break up. It initially seemed there would be only one winner as Sharapova, who had reached the last four without dropping a set, broke in the fourth game and served flawlessly to see out the opener.
Yet Mladenovic, ranked 19th, has been one of the best players on the Tour this year, winning her first WTA title in St Petersburg, reaching the final in Acapulco and claiming a semi-final place at Indian Wells. She was never likely to be content with a bit-part in the unfolding narrative of Sharapova’s return and, once she belatedly began making inroads on the Russian’s serve in the second set, the momentum slowly began to turn.
“Maria is a tough player, she is very aggressive from the first shot,” reflected Mladenovic at courtside afterwards. “It was not an easy match, but I just tried to fight and it paid off.
“We all know that she has a long career behind her, a lot of experience … but I had my chances and I fought. The most important thing for me was to return her serve – it was really not easy, and that was the key for me. Eventually I managed to put some returns back, put pressure, and be in the rally.”
Awaiting Mladenovic in the final is Laura Siegemund of Germany, the world No49, who upset fourth seed Simona Halep 6-4, 7-5.
Leicester Tigers put themselves in pole position for the fourth Premiership play-off place with a bonus-point victory at home to Sale.
The convincing win put the Tigers on 62 points, nine ahead of Bath, who meet Gloucester on Sunday. Victory at Worcester next week will clinch fourth place for the Tigers, who scored five tries in front of a 23,940 crowd.
Freddie Burns led the way in his final home game before joining Bath with a try and 19 points, the other scores coming from Graham Kitchener, Owen Williams, Jack Roberts and George McGuigan. Rob Webber and Bryn Evans scored for Sale, with AJ MacGinty kicking eight points.
Kitchener and the winger Adam Thompstone both made their 100th starts for Leicester, while captain Tom Youngs returned to the pack.
Sale made four changes, including at the back of the scrum where former Tigers No8 Laurence Pearce replaced the injured captain Josh Beaumont.
Leicester led 20-10 at half-time thanks to tries by Burns, who also kicked 10 points, and Kitchener, with hooker and captain Webber replying for Sale. Fly-half MacGinty kicked a conversion and a penalty.
After a first minute punch-up, Sale showed their intent by going for a try from a lineout instead of kicking a penalty, Leicester flanker Brendon O’Connor drove lock George Nott back five metres and Sale winger Josh Charnley was sent to the sin-bin in the fourth minute for taking out Thompstone in mid-air.
Burns gave Leicester an eighth-minute lead with a penalty but moments after Charnley returned to the field, Webber was driven over for a try from a lineout which MacGinty converted.
MacGinty’s 21st-minute penalty put Sale 10-3 ahead but then Leicester, despite a misfiring lineout, hit back with tries in the 24th and 31st minutes from Burns and Kitchener.
Burns converted both and also kicked a 40th-minute penalty.
Sale came close to scoring twice in the opening minutes of the second period but winger Denny Solomona knocked on when trying to collect a bouncing ball near the line and then they were held up on the line after some intense pressure.
Leicester added two more tries in four minutes from Owen Williams and then Roberts.
Lock Evans scored Sale’s second try four minutes from the end, MacGinty missing the conversion, but replacement George McGuigan got Leicester’s fifth with seconds left and Williams converted.
Exeter’s story since they were promoted to the Premiership seven years ago has been one of steady ascent and they are approaching the top. Victory next Saturday against a Gloucester side who will have the European Challenge Cup final on their minds would earn the Chiefs a home tie in the play-off semi-final and a likely place at the head of the table, with the leaders Wasps at home to Saracens.
Exeter not only achieved their biggest Premiership victory over Northampton, but dominated throughout. The Saints scored the first and last tries of a one-sided match, but they were reduced to all-out defence. They attempted more than 250 tackles against opponents who kicked as a final option, but their initial resolve faded into submission against remorseless opponents who look bound for the Premiership final for the second successive year.
There is nothing romantic about Exeter, who in extending their unbeaten run in the Premiership to 14 matches harvested a try bonus point for a record eighth successive game. They lost the prop Greg Holmes to a shoulder injury and the flanker Dave Ewers with a knee problem in the first 10 minutes, but did not miss a step on their relentless march upwards.
Northampton may have lost their previous three matches and arrived without their injured captain, Tom Wood, but stubborn, rather than flamboyant, they defended resolutely after taking the lead against the run of play with a JJ Hanrahan interception try, only to be worn down by having to make so many tackles against an Exeter side as territorially dominant playing into the wind as with it.
There were two summer Lions on the field, but only for 20 minutes. Exeter had Jack Nowell, a dynamo of a wing who kept popping up all over the pitch, with the number on his back irrelevant. He scored one try, was denied what would have been his side’s first of six when he lost the ball in the act of touching it down over the line, and created another.
He was in possession when Northampton’s Lion, Courtney Lawes, got his body position wrong in the tackle and his head made contact with the wing’s hip. Lawes, who had been moved from the second row to the back row to cover for Wood’s withdrawal, was treated on the field for four minutes before being taken off for a head-injury assessment, which he failed.
The Northampton director of rugby, Jim Mallinder, said he hoped Lawes, who also injured his shoulder in the challenge, would be fit for Saturday’s final match of the season at home to Harlequins. It will be a battle for a Champions Cup slot, even though this was the Saints’ 12th league defeat of the season. Unable to arrest Exeter’s flow in a match in which the penalty count was low, it became a matter of how long they would hold out.
The answer was 26 minutes. Nowell’s miss was followed immediately by Stuart Townsend knocking on before picking up to touch down. The home side’s pressure told when the flanker Don Armand, spotting the Saints forwards lined up on the left, went right, where he had an unequal grappling contest with two backs, Hanrahan and Harry Mallinder, that his opposite number, Jamie Gibson, was unable to even up, and twisted his way over the line.
Northampton were reduced to 14 men when their wing Ken Pisi deliberately knocked on as Kai Horstmann waited for what would have been a scoring pass. Exeter kicked the penalty to touch and suckered the Saints into defending a driving maul, only for Townsend to seize the ball and send the wing Olly Woodburn into the space vacated by Pisi.
It took Exeter two minutes to extend their 12-7 interval lead. Ian Whitten picked up a loose pass and ran outside the second-row David Ribbans whose tackle was a symptom of his side’s growing fatigue. Nowell’s try was reward for his persistence – the home side’s back three carrying the ball for more than 400 metres between them, rarely receiving the ball in their designated positions.
The replacement centre Sam Hill scored Exeter’s fifth try and Woodburn received Nowell’s pass for his 10th in the Premiership this season – proof of Exeter’s ability to take players from other clubs and turn them from journeymen to assets – before the Saints full-back Ahsee Tuala, whose enthusiasm for tackling waned as the match went on, finished the scoring by sneaking in on the left wing. For a side with title ambitions eight months ago, it was no consolation.
“We left a few tries out there, but we are in a good place mentally,” said the Exeter coach, Ali Hepher, after his side moved level on points with Wasps, but remained second having won fewer matches. “It was good to see Jack Nowell back to his best: we sat him down after the Six Nations, with all the pressure the tournament put on him, and knew we had to manage him. He is back to his bouncing best as we move in to the final month of the season.”
Having not scored a try in seven years at Saracens, Petrus du Plessis grabbed two in 20 minutes to seal a bonus-point victory against a defiant Bristol, to keep the defending Premiership champions in the hunt for a home play-off semi-final.
In arguably their worst performance of the season, despite naming a starting XV who included five of their six Lions, Saracens stumbled their way past the bottom side, who led 9-3 at half-time, with two tries from their replacement tighthead and one apiece from Chris Ashton and Nick Tompkins. Saracens, for whom Kelly Brown and Neil de Kock were making their final appearances, remain third but now go to Wasps on the final day of the season, only two points behind Dai Young’s side and Exeter, who are level on 79.
The Saracens director of rugby, Mark McCall, will rest a number of players against Wasps with an eye on the Champions Cup final and rejected the idea the team-bonding trip to Barcelona after beating Munster last weekend was to blame for their poor showing.
“It was a really disappointing performance,” said McCall, who also confirmed Mako Vunipola was fine after a knock to his troublesome left knee. “We’ve got certain standards, give Bristol some credit, but we fell well short of those. But you mustn’t try to say that what’s happened this afternoon was because of Barcelona. We had a good training week, we just played poorly.”
Ashton thought he had scored the opening try on 23 minutes – not for the first time a Bristol grubber kick was blocked, allowing the Saracens wing to hack ahead and beat Gavin Henson to the ball, only to be hauled back for offside. So far back that the penalty was within Henson’s range – 3-0 to Bristol and fully deserved considering Saracens’s error count.
Billy Vunipola was uncharacteristically at fault for a number of those. His handling was poor in the opening half and he was not alone – Ashton would have been clear in the right-hand corner had he held on to Alex Lozowski’s pass.
Henson has endured his fair share of ill-fated spells at various clubs throughout his career but his stint at Saracens, when he started a solitary match, was particularly forgettable. A second penalty from his booming right boot put Bristol 6-0 to the good and it is hard not to think what may have been had the 35-year-old stayed injury-free this season.
Henson and Owen Farrell, who had earlier missed a routine kick at goal, traded penalties before half-time and six minutes after the restart Ashton had his 14th try in as many matches and 75th for the club – gathering his measured kick down the right touchline after a break from Tompkins. Farrell converted to edge Saracens ahead.
If that was an ominous score for Bristol it took Saracens another 10 minutes to score their second try – Du Plessis shoved over from a lineout drive, shortly after coming off the bench. Farrell missed the conversion but Saracens had their third try when Lozowski pierced the Bristol defence and found Tompkins on his outside. Farrell then had a try disallowed but Du Plessis, who leaves the club at the end of the season, was again pushed over to clinch the bonus point with 90 seconds to go.
“To win Premiership matches you need to score tries and in the second half we probably didn’t fire enough shots,” said Bristol’s head coach, Mark Tainton. “I suppose it flattered them in the end. We were a lot closer than the scoreline indicated, that’s the story of the season.”
Mark Hughes believes Jack Butland is already back to his best, after the Stoke City keeper kept a clean sheet in front of the England manager, Gareth Southgate, in just his second game since returning from a 13-month injury lay-off.
Butland twice denied André Ayew – once from an overhead kick – and used his leg to thwart Manuel Lanzini as the Potters recorded a 0-0 draw with West Ham United in their goalkeeper’s first home appearance since March 2016.
It was while playing for England in Germany that month that Butland fractured his ankle, and two further setbacks kept the 24-year-old sidelined until his comeback at Swansea City last weekend.
Southgate, who had swerved the Manchester derby to watch rugby league on Thursday, will have been encouraged by Butland’s performance ahead of England’s games with Scotland and France in June, and Hughes knows his ambition is to be his country’s No1 again.
“When you have got dominance, sometimes the opposition can break and make chances, and you need a top-class keeper to make match-defining saves, and that is what Jack did,” said the Stoke manager after the stalemate at the bet365 Stadium.
“All top clubs need keepers like Jack. There have been a couple of false dawns. It has taken 12 months to get him back and we are all delighted he is showing the form he did prior to the injury.
“Jack enjoys the England setup. He had just broken in at senior level, but first things first – we are just two games into his return.
“We were caught out just prior to the start of the season, when he broke down again. Clearly his ambition is to be the No1 keeper for England. Gareth knows him, and I am sure the reason he was here today was to see him. I think he was his captain in the Under-21 setup.”
The draw moved Stoke up to the 40-point mark in the Premier League, while West Ham are only one away from such a figure after a game in which they needed Adrián’s brilliant one-handed save to deny Saido Berahino a maiden Stoke goal, and his first for anyone in 427 days.
Berahino’s barren spell has not stopped Stoke’s supporters warming to the striker and his luckless start to life in Staffordshire was summed up when he lost this footing as Xherdan Shaqiri looked to play him through.
Another block, this time from José Fonte, prevented him from converting Joe Allen’s cross, while the former Southampton captain was equally alert to stop Marko Arnautovic turning home Glen Johnson’s pull across.
The Hammers lacked creativity outside of Lanzini, but Ayew did display some ingenuity with an overhead kick that provided Butland with his first test.
West Ham are eight points above the drop zone, though that margin could be trimmed to five again if Swansea win away to Manchester United on Sunday, and their manager, Slaven Bilic, is not prepared to declare safety as a certainty ahead of contests with Tottenham, Liverpool and Burnley.
“We need more points, it may be enough,” Bilic said. “We don’t want to come into the last game of the season with the radio on and keep asking ‘what is the score there?’. We would love to avoid it.
“We are not panicking, but we are not safe. Nine points to play for. We need more points.”
The Premier League champions can finally breathe more easily as any lingering relegation fears were put to bed on an afternoon when Jamie Vardy continued his resurgence under Craig Shakespeare to score the only goal of a game that rarely came to life.
It was Vardy’s 15th of the season in all competitions and his eighth in 12 matches under Shakespeare – a run of form that has been central to propelling Leicester from the lower reaches of the table to 11th place. This was only Leicester’s second away victory in the league this season and takes them to the 40-point barrier with four fixtures remaining.
As for Albion, an excellent season has badly unravelled and this must have felt like groundhog day for Tony Pulis, their manager. This was a fourth straight defeat and a fifth successive league game without scoring, which is a club record, and it is hard to avoid the impression that their players signed off for the season when they beat Arsenal 3-1 six weeks ago.
It was a scrappy game throughout, low on quality and riddled with mistakes, one of which led to Vardy’s goal. Salomon Rondon, who has failed to score since December, gifted possession to Shinji Okazaki with a loose pass and Albion, normally so tight and compact, were suddenly wide open. Okazaki fed Vardy and the English international did the rest with the minimum of fuss, sweeping a right-footed shot from just inside the area beyond Ben Foster.
Until that point neither side had offered much in a fractious game that had threatened to boil over on a couple of occasions. Danny Drinkwater picked up a booking for a full-blooded challenge on Nacer Chadli – when Mark Clattenburg quickly reached for his pocket it was tempting to think that the referee was going to brandish a red card. Then Claudio Yacob was booked after catching Okazaki with an elbow. Clattenburg, in other words, was being kept busy in what is likely to be his last assignment in the Premier League before he takes up his new position as head of referees in Saudi Arabia.
Other than Vardy’s goal, there was little to get excited about in the opening 45 minutes. Albion’s chances in that period were restricted to a couple of headers, with Kasper Schmeichel denying Christ Brunt at the far post and Rondon, back in more familiar territory at the other end of the pitch, glancing Chadli’s corner off target.
Leicester came close to scoring a second early in the second half. Vardy once again was involved, escaping in the left channel before sliding a low centre across the six-yard box and behind the Albion defence. Okazaki, stretching every sinew, was just unable to get a touch. Riyad Mahrez, cutting in from the right, swept another effort into the side-netting as Leicester began to attack with more conviction.
Albion, in contrast, looked flat, one-paced and devoid of ideas. Pulis responded by bringing on Darren Fletcher and James McClean in the second half to try to lift his team. James Morrison headed straight at Schmeichel late on but it was a routine save for the Leicester goalkeeper on a day when he had precious little to do in the face of a toothless Albion attack.
If Harry Redknapp did not know Birmingham City’s theme tune before, he will now. The club’s new manager must keep right on till the end of the road as his three-game salvation mission goes to the last day of the Championship season at Bristol City next week.
Redknapp enjoyed victory in his first home game in charge despite Birmingham playing 70 minutes with 10 men, after Che Adams was sent off, and missing one penalty before scoring another either side of Jonathan Grounds’ breakthrough goal. And all this against Huddersfield Town’s reserves.
Craig Gardner smashed home the clinching penalty, 14 minutes from time, showing Lukas Jutkiewicz how it is done, and Redknapp took it all in his stride, strolling on to the pitch at the end to applaud the impassioned capacity crowd, but knows the job still needs seeing through.
Next Sunday, starting two points safe but with an inferior goal difference, Birmingham must match the results of Blackburn, away to Brentford, and Nottingham Forest, hosting Ipswich, to avoid relegation. Maybe then he will get paid. “We need a win,” said Redknapp. “A point means nothing, if the other two teams win. You can get beat, and the other two teams lose, then you’ll be OK, but if they win, a draw’s no good.
“We showed unbelievable character today, to win the game, fantastic. A full house here at St Andrew’s made a big difference, they got behind the team and dragged every ounce of effort from them. I couldn’t be more proud of the players.”
Whether this convinces him to apply to succeed Gianfranco Zola on a full-time basis remains to be seen. Redknapp said: “It’s up to the owners. I’ve not spoken to anybody. I’ve just come in for a couple of games and then we’ll see what happens.”
Birmingham, even with 10 men, looked well organised and confident. “We’ve encouraged them,” he said. “We’ve worked hard in training. Steve Cotterill’s been excellent with them, and the shape of the team was good. We stuck in there and, even a man down, they couldn’t break us down. I always believed you lift people by telling them what they can do rather than what they can’t.”
David Wagner, the Huddersfield manager, was “willing to argue with anyone” who wanted to debate his right to make 10 changes from the side that clinched a play-off place at Wolves last Tuesday. Huddersfield slip from third to fifth, meaning they would face Sheffield Wednesday in the play-off semi finals as things stand.
Redknapp said he would have done the same. “Why should they take charge of [worry about] us or Blackburn or Forest?” he said. “It’s not their job. Their manager’s job is to get his players ready for a four-team tournament. He’s got to do whatever he needs to do to win the play-offs.”
The Huddersfield players lining up averaged just 10.7 league starts this season, and Birmingham ripped into them in the early stages, playing some slick one-touch stuff. They earned a penalty when Mark Hudson tripped Adams but Joel Coleman saved Jutkiewicz’a weak penalty kick.
Then Michael Jones, the rather jittery referee, adjudged Adams had gone in two-footed on Martin Cranie in a reckless tackle and sent him off.
Birmingham could have been forgiven for melting. Instead, they dug in with resilience and four minutes before the interval found their reward.
Craig Gardner’s initial corner was returned to him and from his second cross Ryan Shotton headed back across goal for Grounds to run in bravely and head in at the far post.
Grounds was booked for time-wasting – in the 64th minute. But when Gardner smashed home his penalty after Dean Whitehead tripped Jacques Maghoma, Birmingham knew they remained in control of their own Championship destiny.
The wait for an away win under Marco Silva goes on but this felt every inch like one as Hull City garnered another priceless point in their fight for Premier League survival. This was a dire match lit up by a frantic finale with Eldin Jakupovic ultimately proving the Hull hero, with the goalkeeper saving Dusan Tadic’s 90th-minute penalty after Alfred N’Diaye was adjudged to have wrestled Maya Yoshida to the floor by the referee, Mike Dean. No team has conceded more penalties in the top flight this season.
The game exploded into life in the final seconds, with Cedric Soares hacking Oumar Niasse’s effort off the line in added time after Tadic’s penalty was saved. The 1,000 or so travelling supporters sang Silva’s name relentlessly and Hull’s revival under the Portuguese is still very much alive after stopping the rot of five straight away defeats. They were brave in possession and Silva felt he could take plenty of encouragement.
“I want this in our team,” he said when asked about Hull’s intent to attack. “It’s not easy because of the position we are in the table, but this is our football. We play like that at home and away as well. Our players showed big, big courage again. We played very well, more in the first half, but in general in the game. The way we played gives more confidence to our players.”
The pressure is now on Swansea City, three points behind Hull, to get a result against Manchester United on Sunday.
Silva, wearing an open-necked white shirt, stalked the touchline at a sunbathed St Mary’s where Southampton were left chasing shadows for much of this contest, especially that of Kamil Grosicki. He struck the side-netting inside the first couple of minutes before hitting the post with a superb free-kick.
Fraser Forster, the Southampton goalkeeper, was again out of sorts, gifting Lazar Markovic the ball before Steven Davis fouled the Liverpool loanee to allow Grosicki to wrap his right boot around the ball from the edge of the box.
There were few positives to pinpoint for Southampton but Soares’s whipped ball caused a moment’s panic in the Hull back line only for Andrea Ranocchia to ease his countryman Manolo Gabbiadini aside, allowing Jakupovic to collect.
Southampton were tedious in their approach, guilty of overplaying at times and repeatedly second best. Sofiane Boufal’s attempt to nutmeg Sam Clucas was met by groans and a growingly restless home crowd, who booed their team off at the interval and again at full‑time.
“We are angry like the fans and we have to accept this,” Claude Puel, the Southampton manager, said. “Our play was too poor, too slow but congratulations to Hull because it was an important game for them also. It was a poor game for us. We didn’t deserve to win and we are angry because we didn’t do what we needed.”
Puel sought personnel changes shortly before the hour mark, with Gabbiadini, starved of service, and Boufal replaced by the former Hull forward Shane Long and the academy graduate, Josh Sims.
Southampton’s uninspiring performance was summed up by second-half miscommunication between Long and Redmond, with the confusion resulting in Hull moving up the pitch and earning a free-kick. Saints had a couple of half-chances with Davis and Tadic volleying high and wide, but were left shortchanged by a resilient defence, led by Harry Maguire, who was again outstanding. Silva said he predicts the 24-year-old centre-half will have a “big career in the future”.
Hull’s early attacking promise faded a little but they continued to run themselves into the ground. Sometimes, though, it was not enough, as when Long’s pace left Ranocchia in a spin, forcing his partner, Maguire, to clear the danger. Maguire then threw himself in front of the ball to deny Long a simple finish.
Southampton had suddenly come alive. Tadic forced Jakupovic into another smart stop but his party piece was still to come. When Yoshida fell under N’Diaye’s challenge in the box, Tadic stepped up to convert from the spot but Jakupovic dived low to his left to push the ball – and his team – that little bit closer to safety.
Relegation finally became a reality for Sunderland and divorce from David Moyes may not be too far behind it.
A combination of Josh King’s late winner and Hull City’s draw at Southampton pushed Sunderland unceremoniously into the Championship, leaving their manager staring blankly into space.
When the final whistle blew, Moyes, who acknowledges he is considering stepping down at the end of the season, stood a little apart from his assistants. As the calls for his head from a previously very quiet crowd gathered intensity and invective, he looked dejected and alone.
After the bleakest and least imaginative of campaigns punctuated by one-dimensional tactics and inadequate recruitment, it was the least the former Everton, Manchester United and Real Sociedad coach could expect. Yet much as Moyes has failed to impress, many of the club’s manifold problems are rooted in the boardroom where Ellis Short, the owner, should not escape blame.
Given his club’s dramatically superior fanbase and infrastructure – not to mention top-10 wage bill – Short should be ashamed Bournemouth are safely in mid-table while Sunderland supporters contemplate an uncertain future. Yet the beauty of the Premier League is that it remains a meritocracy in which innovative coaches such as Eddie Howe and well-run clubs, however small, can thrive.
By way of reminding their hosts of this reality, Howe’s Bournemouth began by forcing a series of corners. With the lively Marc Pugh clearly on a mission to torment Donald Love, Moyes’s right back, the home defence was soon in all too familiarly shambolic mode.
Admittedly Fabio Borini’s viciously swerving shot forced Artur Boruc into a good save but King, who has scored more goals than Sunderland during 2017, missed four first-half chances as his side monopolised possession.
If Bournemouth were playing a three-dimensional, high-definition passing game, Sunderland’s tactics seemed from the analogue age and principally featured the ball being pumped in Jermain Defoe’s direction as early and directly as possible.
King’s most audacious attempt involved him changing pace, cutting in from the left and unleashing a curving, dipping shot which hit the underside of the bar and the inside of the far post before somehow rebounding, bagatelle style, to safety.
Goodness knows what might have happened if Didier Ndong, Sunderland’s best player, had not been around to hold the home midfield together. The Gabon international’s interceptions repeatedly broke up wave on wave of blue-shirted attacks.
Ndong kept Sunderland in a game in which Moyes’s players might have startled everyone by taking the lead had Defoe not directed a six-yard volley straight at Boruc after springing the offside trap.
After that little cameo Howe started to cut an ever more agitated, and animated, figure in the technical area. Try as they might – and Benik Afobe had a shot blocked by Javier Manquillo, while Love cleared off the line from King – his players’ slight hesitancy in front of goal dictated they could not quite turn their technical and creative advantages into goals.
It left Sunderland harbouring hope of snatching victory on the counterattack. Shortly after Pugh had shot fractionally wide, one such break, early in the second half, concluded with Borini collecting Defoe’s pass and, once again, bringing the best out of Boruc.
By now the attendance figure had been announced as a significantly lower than average yet still a respectable 38,394. No one could be blamed for staying away yet the absentees left an awful lot of vacant red plastic seats – many sun-bleached by the passing years and badly in need of replacing – scattered in clusters around the ground.
Social media posts had suggested there would be vociferous anti-Moyes protests but the mood was strangely subdued, more about apathy than anger and punctuated by lengthy, slightly surreal, silences.
Perhaps the pre-match hint Moyes dropped, indicating he may leave Sunderland in the summer, had drawn the sting from the dissenters and prevented a mutiny or maybe some of England’s most loyal fans simply had no energy left after such a draining, depressing campaign.
There was polite applause when Boruc – by now emerging as a suprisingly influential figure – saved smartly from George Honeyman following Defoe’s cute reverse ball but not even a mass bout of push and shove engaged in by every outfield player could raise the volume.
It began with Borini catching Lewis Cook late, eventually involved everyone piling in to remonstrate with each other and ended with Stuart Attwell booking Borini and Harry Arter.
Clearly aggrieved, King forlornly demanded a penalty in the wake of Lamine Koné’s foul but managed to score in the end anyway. He shot assuredly low and right beyond Jordan Pickford after being played in by Ryan Fraser on a high-speed break.
Cue the first, initially tentative choruses of “We want Moyes out”. By the time they reached peak volume and stridency, their target was staring into space and Sunderland were in the second tier.
It is such a consuming, mesmerising game that the number of professional cricketers who have retired prematurely is remarkably small. Last week Zafar Ansari, five months after making his England debut, joined a select band, notable for players who are very bright or very rich or occasionally – and nauseatingly – both.
Most professionals keep going until the evidence is overwhelming that they are beyond their peak. Until recently this determination to persevere was not so much for monetary gain but because this crazy sport has the capacity to get under the skin; it is well-nigh an obsession, a guaranteed source of torment as well as the odd tantalising triumph. What sportsman fails so frequently or so publicly as a cricketer? Those failures are there in the papers every morning (well, most of them) in undeniable black and white.
Ansari probably wasn’t consumed by the game; he was challenged by it, determined to improve himself and to discover how far he could go. But he obviously recognised that it was not his primary passion. He has been a very good cricketer and a popular one in dressing rooms as contrasting as Cambridge University and Surrey but the chances of him being a significant player for England were minimal.
He realised that. On tour in the winter he articulated with rare candour how his natural ability could not compare with that of so many of his peers. Hence his decision to retire at the age of 25 is easy to understand and probably very wise. He might have been a very good captain of Surrey but he has so many other talents to explore; moreover the modern cricketer, in contrast to those who had six‑month contracts in the 20th century, has no scope to accommodate two separate careers.
It was reassuring to hear how sympathetic Alec Stewart, Surrey’s cricket director, was to Ansari’s situation. In the short term his sudden departure may be a hindrance to the county’s plans but it was for the best – “a brave and considered decision”, said Stewart.
So Ansari goes the way of Alex Loudon, the doosra-bowling old Etonian, who played one ODI for England before retiring at 27. Jamie Dalrymple, once of Radley and Oxford University, played 30 white-ball internationals; he dallied a little longer – he even tried captaining Glamorgan – but his cricketing career was over before his 31st birthday. He now works as a psychologist. Both seem to have survived the fact that they did not stay in the game long enough to qualify for a benefit.
These types of cricketers were once affectionately known as “clever bastards” and they could be a source of envy. They had choices, which was something of a luxury for anyone pursuing a precarious career as a professional sportsman.
Yet an old team-mate of mine once gave me the alternative view. Peter Roebuck, like Ansari, had a first-class degree from Cambridge yet he did not regard this as a means of reducing the pressure upon him to prosper as a county cricketer for Somerset. True, he had options but he sometimes felt that the burden to succeed was greater given that he could easily have followed an alternative career. He had consciously made the choice to devote himself to the vagaries of hitting – or defending – a red ball hurled in his direction at an uncomfortable speed rather than taking up a more sensible and reliable means of earning a living. He constantly had to justify that decision to himself.
For Roebuck the fascinations and tribulations of playing cricket could not be resisted; it was part of his DNA. And the same must have applied to another of those clever bastards, who was celebrating his 75th birthday on Friday. Mike Brearley also contemplated leaving the game prematurely. By the age of 27 he had scored a triple century in Pakistan and had toured with the senior England side in South Africa in 1964-65 (without making his Test debut) but in 1969 he chose to lecture in philosophy in Newcastle, which meant his appearances in first-class cricket became sporadic.
But in 1971 he was tempted back by this seductive game and by the task of captaining Middlesex. Here was another good decision by Brearley. By the mid-70s Middlesex started winning championships under his leadership and he remained stimulated by that challenge. However not even he could have predicted how his career would evolve: a Test debut at 34, the advent of Kerry Packer bringing about the end of Tony Greig as an England captain and the recall to arms after Ian Botham’s 14 months in charge.
Do not expect Ansari to return to cricket in such a dramatic fashion. The game will be poorer without his idiosyncratic, highly intelligent presence. But we can be confident that this England cricketer will soon be excelling in some other field. Good luck to him.
Everyone is seeking a new mandate for change, it seems. Colin Graves, chairman of the England and Wales Cricket Board, sounded almost prime ministerial when pronouncing: “We are delighted that such an overwhelming majority of our members [it was 38-3] voted to support the changes to the ECB articles [thereby allowing the new T20 proposals to proceed]. In doing so they have paved the way for an exciting new era for cricket in England and Wales.”
So the ECB manifesto can be construed to have won the argument – except that there has not really been an argument. Dangle £1.3m per annum in front of most county treasurers and there is no room for debate. Middlesex and Essex nobly voted against; Kent curiously abstained. Beyond this trio there was only a handful of clubs with anything like the financial independence to oppose the plans. Surrey and Somerset were once opponents but decided not to jeopardise the prospect of future favours from the ECB.
Many current fans – probably more than 48% – feel alienated by the decision as we sleepwalk towards summers with two T20 tournaments dominating June, July and August, one of which is bound to wither away. But it looks like it is going to happen. So, in the manner of dismayed Europhiles, we can only hope for the best when the details of the plan eventually unfold in  2019.
It took until the very last day of the jumps season but Nicky Henderson finally prevailed in his battle with Paul Nicholls to be champion jumps trainer, thanks to Altior’s success in the Celebration Chase. But in Ireland, the established champion proved harder to unseat as Willie Mullins did enough at Punchestown to withstand the spirited and sustained challenge of Gordon Elliott, retaining his title for a 10th time.
Altior’s success was an apt conclusion to the season for Henderson, who readily acknowledged the enormously superior firepower which won him this fourth title of his career. The classy youngster, still unbeaten over obstacles, sauntered to an eight-lengths success over the champion two-miler, Special Tiara, on a day when Nicholls was unable to get in the winner’s enclosure.
“We have got some Grade One horses,” Henderson said, “and, to be fair to Paul, he’s done incredibly well because he actually hasn’t got Grade One horses and he’s winning a huge amount of prize money with some very good placing. If you’ve got Altiors and Buveur D’Airs, you’ve got a chance of winning some serious prize money.”
Nicholls’ ability to pick up chunks of prize money with limited horses was again on show in this very race, as San Benedeto bagged £13,000 for running third of four behind Altior. The 20-1 shot had started his season in a novice chase at Sedgefield and won six races along the way, including a Grade One at Aintree.
That consistent chipping away was enough to see off Willie Mullins when Nicholls won his 10th title last year. But his stable strength did not improve during the summer and, when the very best races at the Cheltenham Festival came around last month, the Somerset man was watching from the sidelines. San Benedeto has won more prize money than anything else in his Ditcheat yard this term.
Henderson’s title quest seemed shipwrecked back in November when he had to announce the retirement of Sprinter Sacre and then watched Simonsig suffer a fatal fall just hours later. “I thought, well, you can’t do without two arrows like that,” he reflected here.
But other talents like Might Bite, Brain Power and River Wylde emerged, while Henderson made the critical decision in February to switch Buveur D’Air away from novice chases and towards the Champion Hurdle, which he duly won by four lengths. Henderson, who also had the runner-up in My Tent Or Yours, nominated that race as the highlight of his season.
Self-deprecating as ever, the 66-year-old Henderson reckoned he has now won one title for every decade he has held a licence. “Another 10 years, I’m not sure I’m up for that … But it won’t stop us trying.
“It’s been good fun since Cheltenham, really. It’s been tight. I’ve sort of enjoyed it. I can do better now.
“I’m as up for it as I’ve ever been. When I announced that Sprinter was going to retire that day, I think you all thought it was me that was going to retire. But I’ve no intention of that.”
Henderson enjoyed a treble on the day but came up short by a head in the Bet365 Gold Cup, in which his Vyta Du Roc finished strongly but too late to catch the 40-1 shot Henllan Harri, who made all under Sean Bowen, riding for his father, Peter. “It shows how good a trainer he is,” young Bowen opined, “because I was thinking what a muppet he was for running it in the Bet365. He was right again.”
This was the latest occasion on which Sandown’s two winning posts caused confusion for spectators, and apparently one of the jockeys as Daryl Jacob on Vyta Du Roc continued to ride his horse to the second post, two strides after the race had ended at the first post. He was in front by the second post and thought he had won, according to Bowen, but was soon disabused by the judge’s verdict.
Both Bowen and Jacob were given two-day suspensions by the stewards for overuse of the whip. The stewards decided that Jacob had only waved his whip after crossing the line and that, even if he had used it, he had only done so once. Two uses of the whip after the line would amount to an offence.
Mullins, meanwhile, was not yet in celebratory mood as his status as champion was confirmed in Ireland. “It’s been a funny season. It hasn’t been that enjoyable and I’m glad it’s over,” he said, an apparent allusion to the injuries to several star horses as well as his autumn split from the owner Michael O’Leary.
“Gordon is a great competitor. He’s fantastic and has been a gentleman the whole way through. I didn’t think it was possible for us to win, particularly when a few of the early photo-finishes went against us this week. It’s fantastic to win and a big thank-you to all the team at home and all my owners.”
2.00 Sharp Defence (nap) 2.30 Del Parco 3.00 Campion 3.30 Adamant 4.00 Stone The Crows 4.30 The Tartan Spartan 5.00 Aristocratic 5.30 Almanack
2.15 Bogsnog 2.45 Majorette 3.15 Judy Woods 3.45 Regal Decree (nb) 4.15 Rembrandt 4.45 Grandad’s World 5.15 Materialist 5.45 Helovaplan
The man Anthony Joshua credits with putting him on the path to boxing superstardom has backed his former protege to beat Wladimir Klitschko in one of the most eagerly anticipated heavyweight fights of recent years.
Sean Murphy, a coach at Finchley and District Amateur Boxing Club in north London, where Joshua first learnt to box, believes the 27-year-old will be the fresher of the two fighters when they meet on Saturday night before 90,000 fans at Wembley in a contest that will be watched by millions around the world.
With only 18 professional bouts under his belt, Joshua lacks the 41-year-old Ukrainian’s wealth of experience in the ring, but he is unbeaten and Murphy suggested the momentum was with him. Joshua grew up in Watford and joined Finchley when he was 18.
“Klitschko was the world champion for four, five years, he dominated it,” Murphy said. “But he hasn’t boxed for 18 months. Josh is the new kid on the block. He’s got bags of enthusiasm. He’s won his last 18 fights and he’s been busy. He’s been boxing regular, and that’s what I think will make the difference. All the amount of sparring you do in the gym ain’t the same as getting in the ring and fighting, and I think that’s going to be a big advantage for Josh because his timing is going to be that bit better.”
Murphy, who has been with Finchley and District ABC for 17 years, said Joshua, the IBF heavyweight title-holder, who will add the WBA and IBO titles to his tally if he wins on Saturday night, was an intelligent boxer who would learn from previous mistakes.
“The one fight in his professional career he didn’t box to instruction was against Dillian White because he had a score to settle. The next day I spoke to him on the phone. I said: ‘you took too many punches.’ He said: ‘I know but I wanted to go out there and have a fight with him. I wanted to beat him up and beat him at his own game.’
“He’s clever, he’s not stupid. He went to spar Klitschko. His reckoning was ‘one day I’m going to have to fight him, see what he does.’ All the time he’s got an ulterior motive.”
Speaking to the Observer in his small office, a few yards from where scores of children – some as young as nine and many of them girls – were sparring furiously, Murphy, a former professional boxer, said Joshua did not immediately strike him as a future world heavyweight champion.
“Not right away, but with him progressing, going right through the novices, I thought there was something there. When you’re a coach you’ve got to gel with your boxer. I’ve had 200 boxers in here, some who I haven’t got on with and have made it. It’s that personality where you click. I done that with Joshua. He asked me questions. I took him sparring to the professional gyms to bring him on quicker.”
Murphy recalls a young man who was “always happy, always smiling”. He said: “He got on with everyone, he was very inquisitive, asking ‘why am I doing this, why am I doing that?’ He picked it up very quickly. In about two months he was ready to box. A lot of the other coaches thought he wasn’t. When I said he was getting ready, they were like ‘oh he’s not ready,’ but I said ‘no, no, no I think he’s going to be alright.’ He won his first couple of bouts and then everyone was like ‘oh, he’s not a bad lad.’”
Compared with many boxers Murphy has taken on, Joshua was relatively old when he took up the sport. “He was 18 when he walked in here,” Murphy said. “He was getting in a little trouble on the streets. He wouldn’t answer you back. Some kids give you a bit of cheek.
What marked Joshua out was his desire to learn, Murphy said. “He come back from the Europeans and said: ‘I want to work on my left hook.’ I said: ‘why’s that?’ And he smiled and said: ‘this geezer, he done about three people with left hooks, knocked them out.’
“So we were doing half-hour, an hour sessions, working left hooks, using his legs. That’s where his power is. Working on the technical side of it. He’s very much a perfectionist, keeps going over the same move again and again. I trained Josh to his strengths, to stand up, to throw nice long punches because he’s a big fella.”
Klitschko has 68 fights under his belt, 64 of them wins, 53 of them by knockouts, but Murphy said people needed to look beyond Joshua’s 18 professional bouts. “He had 40 odd bouts in the amateurs, he’s been to the Europeans, the World Championships, the Olympics. He’s handled all that well, took it in his stride. Then he’s turned pro and he’s done everything that’s been asked of him. This is just another step on the ladder to greatness for him.”
Murphy will be at Wembley on Saturday night, along with 23 others from Finchley ABC, who have all been given tickets by Joshua. The 6ft 6in giant, who weighs in at almost 18 stone, still comes back to the club to give out prizes. Last year he paid for it to be kitted it out with new punchbags, spar bars and ropes. The other week he surprised Murphy by handing him the keys to a £70,000 BMW by way of a thank you for helping him find his true vocation.
The two men are clearly still very close. So does Murphy experience any anguish at the prospect of Joshua being on the receiving end of a punch from a hard-hitting fighter known to his fans as Dr Steelhammer?
Murphy laughs at the idea. “Nah I love it,” he says. “I get a buzz out of it. I’ve been to a lot of Josh’s fights at the O2 and the atmosphere is unbelievable.”
And his prediction for Saturday?
“I think Josh is going to stop him in round eight or nine.”
Change has been palpably in the air this season and by the close of a tense and gripping Q3 Sebastian Vettel and his Ferrari team-mate, Kimi Raikkonen, had completed their own Russian revolution to put a definitive full stop on Mercedes’ dominance of the single qualifying lap by locking out the front row for Sunday’s grand prix.
The two Ferrari drivers shunted Lewis Hamilton into fourth place, half a second slower than Vettel and behind his Mercedes team-mate, Valtteri Bottas, who was in third.
The scale of their achievement can only really be measured in relation to just how dominant Mercedes have been in qualifying since the beginning of 2014. This is the first time for 31 races that Mercedes have not put a car on the front row and the first time they have not been on pole in Sochi. The pole was the Italian team’s sixth since 2008.
A jubilant Vettel was more than aware of the giant step his team had just made. “In qualifying Mercedes have been very, very strong,” he said. “I am sure it will be very close tomorrow. Especially over the long-run. We will see but for now we are full of joy. We are back, at least if you talk about the front row.”
Ferrari are back indeed and to prove it in Russia, a circuit that has traditionally played to the strengths of Mercedes, is hugely significant for the rest of the season. The Scuderia have endured a long struggle with little reward during the three years of Mercedes dominance.
The German’s first pole position in Russia, the 47th of his career, is also Ferrari’s first since he secured the top spot at the Singapore Grand Prix in 2015 and converted it into victory. They have not locked out the front row since the French Grand Prix at Magny Cours in 2008 and in doing so Raikkonen, who was five-hundredths of a second behind his team-mate, finally found his A game. It is his first front row since Monza in 2015 and by far the Finn’s best performance of the year.
A subdued Hamilton acknowledged that he could not match Ferrari when it mattered. “I just wasn’t quick enough,” he said. “We have to go back to the drawing board and figure out why. Tomorrow is still all to play for and at least I am still in the mix. It was all the last sector – I was half a second down in the last sector. That’s where all the mistakes happen.”
That both Ferrari drivers could put in such superlative laps in what has been a Mercedes stronghold is indicative of the sea-change at the top of F1. Vettel has two wins to Hamilton’s one and in Sochi the shift to advantage Ferrari in machinery seems to have been proved beyond doubt. Their car has shown superb balance all weekend, allowing their drivers to attack the corners with confidence.
On the final runs in Q3, Vettel exploited it to the maximum, pushing through the lap and making the most of the advantage his car enjoyed through the slower corners of sector three. On this evidence, Ferrari have more to come in race pace.
They had also been quickest through all three practice sessions, while Mercedes have struggled with balance and in putting their tyres in the correct operating window, especially on quick laps using ultrasoft rubber and getting heat into the rears. Hamilton in particular has at no point seemed comfortable with any of his quick laps or able to extract the maximum from his car. He still played his part in what was an enthralling final session, however, with all four drivers in the mix on their last hot laps when Vettel nailed one that could not be matched.
“When I got the message I had got it I was over the moon,” Vettel said. He and the Scuderia can rightly celebrate but will recall that no other team has won the Russian Grand Prix since its inaugural race in 2014. “If you have a rhythm here it feels fantastic. It is great to have both cars on the front row but it is only part of the job done.”
The Red Bull of Daniel Ricciardo was in fifth with Williams’ Felipe Massa the best of the midfield in sixth, ahead of the second Red Bull of Max Verstappen. Nico Hülkenberg put in another strong performance in his Renault in Q3, finishing in eighth; with the Force Indias of Sergio Pérez and Esteban Ocon in ninth and tenth respectively.
There was yet more misery for McLaren as Fernando Alonso finished in 15th place and his team-mate, Stoffel Vandoorne, who qualified in 17th, will take a 15-place grid penalty after having to fit a fifth turbocharger after practice, with four changes to power unit components the new limit for the 2017 season.
Carlos Sainz in the Toro Rosso finished in 11th place but will take a three-place grid penalty for causing an accident at the last round in Bahrain. Lance Stroll in the Williams was in 12th in front of the second Toro Rosso of Daniil Kvyat and the Haas of Kevin Magnussen
Britain’s Jolyon Palmer had to have an engine change on his Renault after the third practice session but made it to qualifying only to spin and hit the wall at turn four, ending his run in 16th.
Sauber’s Pascal Wehrlein also spun at the end of Q1 and finished in 18th, one place ahead of his team-mate Marcus Ericsson, while Romain Grosjean struggled to find a lap, unhappy with his Haas and ended up in 20th place.
In a five-year period that has encompassed administration, liquidation, Saturday afternoons in the company of Albion Rovers and even a 5-1 trouncing at Celtic Park, nothing has wounded the Rangers support as much as this. Make that 16-4 on aggregate to Celtic from six Old Firm fixtures this season, and in the last one a record: the scoring of five at this venue.
As Celtic swaggered around Ibrox – on and off the field – suddenly the full extent of Rangers’ woes reappeared in sharp focus. This green and white party was too much for some, even at a time in the campaign when this result had very little bearing on league matters.
One fan had to be forcibly removed from the pitch after accosting the Celtic captain, Scott Brown, as others reverted to prehistoric verse. The Brown incident, which occurred after goal No1, should lead to scrutiny of Ibrox security given the distance travelled by the spectator at far more of a stagger than a sprint. Scottish football’s lame approach to such affairs means Rangers will probably be spared any penalty.
Missiles were hurled at celebrating Celtic players and one Brain of Britain contender was captured on television making monkey gestures at Scott Sinclair after the game’s opening goal. Rangers said they do “not condone any form of unacceptable behaviour”, which is all well and good, but here we are in 2017 and the message is not getting through. The claiming of moral high ground is a seriously tricky business where these sets of fans are concerned but how Rangers conceded territory in this lunchtime kick-off.
Embarrassment in the stands was matched only by the woeful standards produced by Rangers on it. “I’m ashamed to be part of a performance like that,” said Kenny Miller. At 37, the Rangers captain looks his team’s best player.
It would be comical if there were not such a depressing undertone: this scene of Rangers and their very serious, historic sense of entitlement, which triggers such venom as Celtic revel in a position of vast superiority. A notably intense, nasty, opening-half atmosphere subsided only when apathy set in.
The latter sentiment at least was perfectly understandable, with Rangers supporters having no reason whatsoever to believe either in those on the board who took over the club with grand promises that have amounted to very little, or a batch of average players and a coaching team who collectively fail to convince. Rangers’ decision to part company with Mark Warburton in February has not been endorsed by events since.
“That was totally my responsibility,” said Pedro Caixinha, Warburton’s successor. The Portuguese manager spoke of his anger and asked onlookers to “recognise the gap” between his club and Celtic. It may only be partly disrespectful to suggest that chasm is actually responsible for Caixinha being in position.
As Rangers once again contemplate an uncertain future – what will come first, audited accounts or a title tilt? – Celtic deserve immense credit for their relentless touch. The terrific Ibrox surface even seemed to assist Celtic’s style as, it has to be said, did Caixinha deploying two forwards from the outset rather than adopting an approach of containment.
Only woeful shooting prevented them from scoring umpteen goals in the first 45 minutes alone. Sinclair sent Celtic in front from the spot after Myles Beerman crazily upended Patrick Roberts with the winger posing no danger whatsoever, before Leigh Griffiths collected a Stuart Armstrong pass and blasted home No2. Griffiths hit the crossbar and Sinclair missed two glaring opportunities as Rangers desperately and unsuccessfully grasped for air.
Callum McGregor, Celtic’s standout player, produced his team’s third. Dedryck Boyata was the unlikely scorer of the fourth from a fine Griffiths free-kick. Miller’s consolation – which was also cheered from the Celtic end – mattered even less than at the time as Mikael Lustig showed the finishing instincts of a forward rather than a full-back from 18 yards.
“My only disappointment is that we should have scored more,” Brendan Rodgers said. “When I first came in, I said the season doesn’t finish until the very last whistle. I’m trying to create a squad and a team and a club that goes beyond our domestic football and that’s about a mentality. I think this game told you everything about their mentality.”
For the record, Celtic are 36 points clear of Rangers with four matches to play. It is approaching the point where an Ibrox revolution will be necessary. Again.