
Chrissy Teigen and Kelly Rowland are in their element!
ET's Kevin Frazier caught up with the beautiful brunettes at the fifth annual Beautycon festival in Los Angeles on Sunday, where they gushed about coming face-to-face with female glamour entrepreneurs.
"I have no idea what to expect!" Teigen, who wore an off-the-shoulder top, green pants and a bold lip, confessed. "I've never been here before."
"[I'm excited to see] a ton of beautiful ladies who are very excited about makeup and hair... and I feel like I'm their momma," she joked. "I feel like they're my baby birds. And I'm here to talk to my baby birds. I'm excited."
Rowland also gushed about the next generation of up and coming beauty entrepreneurs.
"It's all different beauty brands that are here, from big ones to up and coming ones, which is really exciting to watch. It's like kids as young as like, 12 and 16 and 18, and so many different age backgrounds that are starting their businesses," she said. "So it's really exciting to be here and watch women starting their movement."
The 36-year-old singer didn't just come for fun -- she came on behalf of her lash subscription service, Elora Lane.
"Actually my makeup artist, Sheika Daley, wanted to do lash subscription service. And I was like, 'I don't know, let's give it a try.' So I'm one of the investors, a main investor for Elora Lane," she explained. "It's really, really cool."
"I have Elora Lane lashes on right now," Rowland added.
EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Rowland Talks Candidly About Post-Baby Sex: 'I'm a Woman and I Have Physical Needs!'
The mother of one also opened up about new music while speaking with ET earlier this week. Hear what she had to say in the video below.
Chris Pratt is back in public.
The Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 star accepted the Choice Sci-Fi Movie Actor surfboard at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards on Sunday night, in his first appearance since he and Anna Faris announced their separation after eight years of marriage last week.
"Wow thank you. I love you too, thank you," the 37-year-old actor said during his acceptance speech, joking, "Many years ago, when I came to Los Angeles, I came from Hawaii and I had this blonde hair and tan, and I met an agent, because I really wanted to be an actor ... and he said 'Wow bro, you must surf,' and I said, 'Uh, yeah.' And that was the first of many lies that I told to get to where I am today."
"Thank you again, thank you Teen Choice. You guys have a great night and get home safe, I love you all," Pratt concluded the speech. The actor's last appearance at the Teen Choice Awards was 13 years ago, when he and Everwood co-star, Gregory Smith were nominated.
EXCLUSIVE: Patti Stanger Says Chris Pratt and Anna Faris Are Still Living Together After Split Announcement
For more on the couple's shocking split, watch the video below.
Country music favorites Faith Hill and Tim McGraw took to Instagram on Saturday to wish their daughter, Maggie, a happy 19th birthday.
Hill dug up a throwback pic of the trio enjoying some time on the ocean, with Maggie serving up a giant smile for the camera.
“Happy Birthday to Maggie who is 19 years old today!!!!!” Hill wrote. “How is this possible? To one of the most adventurous, funniest and hardworking young ladies I know. So happy to have you home even if it is only for a couple more weeks. We love you!”
McGraw also paid tribute to his dear girl’s adventurous nature, sharing an underwater snap of Maggie scuba diving.
“Happy birthday Mags-a-million,” he captioned the photo. “Ur sisters, your mom and I are so proud of you and your adventurous spirit … Stay curious! we love you!”
Maggie is one of three daughters the country couple shares.
McGraw’s posts then took on a serious note as he shared a clip from the video for his GRAMMY-winning 2015 single, “Humble and Kind,” and urged peace in the wake of deadly protests and violence in Charlottesville, Vermont.
“This cannot stand. These days surely MUST be behind us #StayHumbleandKind #charlottesville,” McGraw captioned the video on Instagram.
See more on the family and their Bahamas getaway in the video below.
While this year's Teen Choice Awards was a celebration of pop culture, the specter of tragic violence at a white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, weighed heavily on a lot of entertainers as they walked the red carpet before the show -- including Black-ish star Yara Shahidi.
The 17-year-old actress stopped to talk with ET's Lauren Zima, where she opened up about the disturbing rally and the conversations she's had with her castmates about the effect the violence has had on the public consciousness.
"I think we're all in this strange state because it is, not to say unexpected, but with what's happening in Charlottesville is an example and the personification of hate in a way that hasn't been seen in such a long time," Shahidi said. "We've had these instances throughout the years in which you see unarmed black men being killed, or whatever the situation is, in which we are aware of the racism that already exists."
The actrss said the racism apparent in the Charlottesville rally is something above and beyond the hatred that many are used to seeing on such a public scale.
"To see an entire rally and protest centered around the idea of an entire race being inferior or centered around this idea of hate, centered around this idea that they feel as though they have the space and privilege to be able to walk through [the University of Virginia] and make people terrified to even come outside I mean it's all so insane," she added.
On Friday, hundreds of white supremacists marched through the University of Virginia holding torches and chanting as part of a so-called "Unite the Right" event.
The rally was met with a number of counter-protests made up of civil rights organization, student groups, anti-fascist activists and community members. Tensions rose between the groups with occasional bouts of violence.
On Saturday afternoon, a man drove into a crowd of counter-protesters who had turned out to march against the rally. The attack killed a 32-year-old woman and injured 19 others. The fatal incident incited many in Hollywood and in Washington to denounce the rally and those who participated.
For Shahidi, the one positive thing to come from the tragic events of Charlottesville is the galvanization of people standing up against hatred and bigotry and coming together in greater numbers than ever to recognize the dangers of racism.
"I do appreciate that people are more united than ever and I think it is hard for anybody to ignore that racism is still so prevalent and relevant in everything we do," Shahidi said.
During the awards show, Shahidi presented the prestigious Visionary Award to Bruno Mars, and she used part of her time on stage to advocate for people to use their voices to make a difference, sharing, "With everything that's happening in the world, it's so important that we use our platforms as Gen Z to spread this love that is so crucial right now."
On the red carpet, Shahidi also opened up about her upcoming Black-ish spinoff series, Grown-ish, starring her character, Zoey Johnson.
"Well we start [work on] the spinoff September 5th. That's the official start date," she explained. "We're really looking forward to being real to the teenage experience… it's going to be relevant and real and I'm excited for Zoey to grow up and I'm terrified."
In terms of what fans from expect, Shahidi couldn't give much away aside from teasing, "Zoey gets in trouble. That's all I can really say." Grown-ish premieres in early 2018 on Freeform.
Fifth Harmony showed up to the 2017 Teen Choice Awards looking like queens, but they weren't always so confident.
ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the group on the red carpet, where they dished on the advice they'd give to their younger selves -- and it's pretty good.
"Just love yourself," Lauren Jauregui said.
"Definitely love yourself," Ally Brooke agreed. "Take in every moment, don't try to grow up too quickly."
"I have like a teenage sister right now, and she's going through a rough time of like, she's all about [her] figure right now, because that's what you see," Dinah Jane confessed. "I'm like trying to calm her down like, 'Regina, just live in your teenage years. Like, live in he moment. That's the last thing you should be worried about right now. You should be living your youth."
"I would definitely say to be present," Normani Kordei added. "Because I look back now, and I'm like, 'Man, I just wanted to be 21 so bad, or 18.' And now that I'm actually 21, I'm like, 'Man, I feel old.' I feel like time is not being kind to me, so I would definitely say be present."
Fifth Harmony is living definitely in the present, but their past crushes might surprise you.
"Oh my god, Nick Jonas and Zac Efron [were my teenage crushes]," Jauregui admitted, while Dinah Jane professed her love for Ethan Craft on Lizzie McGuire.
Brooke and Kordei, meanwhile kept their lips sealed. "It might get me in trouble," Kordei teased.
The girl group dominated the Teen Choice Awards on Saturday, taking home Choice Music Group, Choice Summer Music Star: Group, Choice Fandom and Choice Single: Group for their song, "Down."
See more from the red carpet in the video below. 
Maroon 5 isn't going anywhere anytime soon.
The band was presented with the 2017 Teen Choice Awards' Decade Award on Sunday, and Adam Levine couldn't help but poke a little fun at the honor.
"I'm not going to lie. I'm 38 years old," Levine cracked onstage. "I mean, we look really good for 38, but we're not teens."
"But the fact that teenagers, all of you, can appreciate what we do after all this time... I mean, our first album came out in 2002. Like, most of you hadn't been born at that point, and so it's so crazy that we're still doing this," he remarked. "We have surfboards. It's the Decade Award, which can only possibly mean one thing, which is we've been around for forever, which is amazing, and basically, most of the time is a result of you guys."
"Our sixth and final album is coming out in November," Levine continued, shocking the audience. "I'm just kidding. I'm joking. We are never going to go away. Thank you guys very much."
Levine recently reflected on his career highs and lows, calling Maroon 5's "She Will Be Loved" "lightning in a bottle."
"The day that we wrote it, we thought to ourselves, 'Wow, this song is gonna mean a lot to a lot of people,'" he recalled. "We just kinda had that feeling, or I guess it was just one of those special moments where I thought, 'Wow, we're gonna have a career because of this song."
See more in the video below.
We see you, Vanessa Hudgens!
The 28-year-old actress was presented with the "See Her" award for her works towards "seeing a change" for women and girls in the media at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday.
Hudgens rocked the red carpet in a sassy purple ensemble, and inside the awards show, gave a moving speech encouraging her fans to embrace their individuality.
"To all my fans out there, I just have to say thank you guys so much from the bottom of my heart. You guys have been with me through thick and thin, and you guys have been such a rock for me, so thank you," the former Disney star began her speech.
"Thank you so much to the Teen Choice Awards and the AMA for presenting me with this, I mean, ridiculously amazing award. You know, I'm not going to lie, when I was 25, I felt like I had it all figured out. And then I woke up at 27 and I realized I had no idea who I was, what I stood for, and what I wanted," she continued. "And It was terrifying and extremely humbling. But I look back on that moment really grateful because it pushed me to look deeper and figure out what type of woman I want to become."
"Martha Graham said this quote that I love. It says, 'You are unique, and if that has not been fulfilled, then something has been lost,'" Hudgens said. "I think it is so important for us to lean into our individuality and to embrace our weirdness, to not be afraid of being different, because God made you you for a reason, so know that in your heart, you are enough, and the more that you lean into that, the brighter you will shine. Thank you so much and God bless."
See more on Hudgens in the video below. 
It seems Miley Cyrus just had too much on her plate.
The 24-year-old singer took to Instagram to explain her absence at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards on Sunday, confessing that she "created an unrealistic schedule" for herself as she prepared to drop her new single, "Younger Now." Cyrus was set to accept the award show's highest honor, the Ultimate Choice Award.
"To my dearest fans & all of those watching @teenchoicefox ! I want to say thank you from the very bottom of my heart for presenting me with #TheUltimateChoiceAward !" Cyrus wrote alongside the artwork for her upcoming single. "I am beyond bummed I couldn't make it to the show as I had every intention of being there to accept and celebrate this honor!"
"I created an unrealistic schedule for myself which leads me to this announcement!" she explained. "I've been tryin to keep the secret but I can't hide it any longer! My new single / music video #YoungerNow will be dropping this Friday, Aug 18th & I am sooooooo EXCITED to share it with all of you!"
"I hope to always make people smile and shine light thru my work! I look forward to making music for the rest of my life and I'm thankful everyday for those who listen! I am sending so much love and peace into the world right now because THATS what we need most!" Cyrus concluded. "Love Love & more LOVE! ❤️💙💚💛💜❤️💙💚💛💜."
Younger Now is also the title of Cyrus' new album, which is set to release on Sept. 29.
"Miley really leaned into her roots with this new album, 'Malibu' in particular," Billy Ray Cyrus recently told ET. "I mean, the sounds that were roaring out of our house and the people that were coming through our house as great songwriters -- Carl Perkins and Waylon, Hank Cochran, some of the greatest songwriters in the world. Ed King, who wrote 'Sweet Home Alabama,' was frequently at the house…" 
"I think Miley absorbed a lot of those sounds and a lot of that conversation," he continued. "It becomes part of who you are."
See more in the video below.
Maddie Ziegler has adorably shared how her boyfriend, Jack Kelly, makes her constantly “giddy.”
The 14-year-old Dance Moms star recently celebrated her eight-month anniversary with her beau, and told ET she’s thrilled about the milestone.
EXCLUSIVE: Maddie Ziegler Talks Boyfriend
“It’s great,” she told ET’s Lauren Zima at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards on Sunday. “I always get giddy about it. I’m just happy.”
The dancer, who has famously starred in several of Australian songstress Sia’s music videos, also said how she “can’t wait” for the world to see her next project with the “Cheap Thrills” singer.
The hitmaker is directing Ziegler in the film Sister, which she promises will be “unlike anything you've seen before.”
Kate Hudson is also starring in the movie and shaved her head for the role.
“She's amazing. She’s incredible,” Ziegler gushed about Hudson, adding that she has learned “everything” from the actress. “She’s becoming like a family member to me, so I love her so much.”
Ziegler once again took home the award for Choice Dancer at the Los Angeles, California, awards ceremony.
A regular Teen Choice Awards attendee, she was looking forward to catching up with “all my friends” and was looking fab in a jumpsuit.
“I've never done a jumpsuit with pants and a sweatshirt almost, so I thought that'd be cute,” explained the teen, who is preparing to accompany Sia on her Australia and New Zealand tour later this year.
See Ziegler spill more details on her boyfriend below.
Ashton Kutcher and Mila Kunis seem to be enjoying their time in  Hungary!
The couple, who relocated to the country while Kunas shoots a film, stepped out for a casual date night at the Sziget Festival in Budapest on Thursday where they watched Wiz Khalifa perform.
EXCLUSIVE: Mila Kunis Says She and Ashton Kutcher Are 'Good' With 2 Kids, Describes Their 'Crazy' Home Life
Kunis and Kutcher had the perfect seats to enjoy the show. The two were spotted on scaffolding above the stage, alongside Jennifer Anniston/s hubby, Justin Theroux.
MORE: Ashton Kutcher Shuts Down Mila Kunis Cheating Claims With One Tweet
Kutcher also captured a couple of his own snapshots from the  "See You Again" rapper's set, which he posted to Instagram.
"In that cloud is Wiz," he wrote next to a pic of the stage, while another post feature a closeup shot of the music star captioned, "The better seat."
MORE: Ashton Kutcher Recalls His and Mila Kunis' 'That '70s Show' Kiss, Says She Wrote About Him in Her Diary
In May, The Ranch star opened about another epic night out with his wife during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. Kutcher, 39, shared the hilarious story of how Kunis, 33, chose the name for their 8-month-old son Dimitri.
"On our way to a date night, Mila turns to me and she goes, 'So... I think Donald Trump is gonna become the president, and I think Dimitri's the name of our baby," Kutcher explained.
"I'm telling you, she called it, that's not even a joke," he insisted. "Probably a month out, or two months out.”
"Everything Mila said is right," added Kutcher who also has a 2-year-old daughter, Wyatt, with Kunis. "She's my wife, that's just what it is."
See more below.
Fifth Harmony came to slay!
The girl group stunned on the red carpet at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday.
Normani Kordei and Lauren Jauregui worked all-white looks, while Ally Brooke and Dinah Jane rocked colorful caped ensembles.
Fifth Harmony took home the coveted surfboard for Choice Music Group, where they used their time on the stage to seemingly call attention to Saturday's white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia.
"In light of recent events, we just wanted to say to all of the young ones at home watching, no matter who you are, where you come from or what you look like, you are beautiful and you are important," Jauregui said. "So keep spreading love and positivity, all right? God bless."
ET caught up with the band last month, when they teased their "genuine" new sound on their third studio album. 
See more in the video below.
The Riverdale girls are even closer in real life than they are on the show.
ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the cast at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards in Los Angeles on Sunday, where they couldn't stop gushing about their friendship.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Riverdale' Star Skeet Ulrich Dishes on Cole Sprouse and Lili Reinhart's 'Great Chemistry'
"We've always been so close, so it's just progressively getting closer and closer which is you know, amazing. I work with my best friends which is rare and again, these are my best friends. I'm here with my best friends. Can I say best friends one more time?" Lili Reinhart adorably said, before giving Camila Mendes a huge hug. "My date [tonight] is my cast."
"They're all my family, honestly. I can tell them anything," Mendes sweetly added. "I'm sharing this really bizarre experience with them, and we're all kind of in the same boat. We get to go to events together, and it's nice to have them."
While the cast couldn't be cuter, their Riverdale characters will be taking a "darker" turn in season two.
"That's what we're definitely doing in season two. We're exploring a lot more into these characters and particularly with Betty getting in touch with her dark side a little bit so that's fun for me," Reinhart said.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Riverdale's Most Romantic Season 1 Scenes -- We Dare You Not to Swoon!
"Like, everything's taken to the next level," Mendes shared. "It really feels like  level one was season one, and level two is season two, and the story lines are great. The relationships are being more fully fleshed out. It's great."
Madelaine Petsch, meanwhile, admitted to already seeing the more intense side of fame, with a crazy fan experience.
"My first [encounter] was so overwhelming. I was at the Grove, it was right after we got back from filming, and a fan yelled my name, actually 'Cheryl Blossom' at the top of her lungs, but it didn't really register," she recalled. "And [she] starts running, like a soldier, running at me, and then jumps on me. "I was so stressed out."
EXCLUSIVE: 'Riverdale' Romance Rundown -- All the Details on Season 2's Love Interests!
The Riverdale crew proved they really are like "family," while paying tribute to their late line producer, JB Moranville, during their acceptance speech for Choice Drama TV Show.
Watch a sneak peek of season two in the video below. 
When your mom is Gwen Stefani, you can expect to have some really magical birthday parties.
The singer and former Voice coach threw her son Zuma an epic Harry Potter-themed celebration in honor of his ninth birthday later this month.
The proud mom shared a number of photos to Snapchat and her Instagram story, showing off the impressive level of detail that went into the special day.
The fantastical festivities included some downright amazing decorations to set the mood, including a beautifully crafted facsimile of the famous Platform 9 3/4 that led into the house, a life-size Harry Potter cardboard cutout and a massive fruit display carved and diced to look like a huge owl!
Among the other decorations were two more life-sized cutouts of Draco Malfoy and Serverous Snape, and a vast assortment of snakes made up to look like magical potions and various candies you might find at Honeydukes in Diagon Alley.
PHOTOS: Celebs Share Pics of Their Cute Kids
The most impressive treat of all might have been the enormous birthday cake with Zuma's name spelled out in a banner across the base.
On the first tier were the crests of all four houses of Hogwarts while a full-sized fondant sculpture of the sorting hat stood atop the edible work of art.
As for the fun and games, the No Doubt frontwoman rented a towering volcano-themed inflatable bouncy slide for the back yard.
This is certainly going to be one difficult birthday party for Stefani to top in the future.
Zuma, who turns 9 on Aug. 21, is Stefani's second-oldest child with her ex-husband, rocker Gavin Rossdale. The pair also share an 11-year-old son, Kingston, and a 3-year-old son, Apollo. Check out the video below for more on Stefani's adorable kids.
The 2017 Teen Choice Awards kicked off on Sunday at USC’s Galen Center in Los Angeles, California, honoring big-name stars in a variety of categories, ranging from television and movies to sports and music.
Among the stars who attended were Vanessa Hudgens, Zendaya, Fifth Harmony, and  Louis Tomlinson.
Notable awards included Bruno Mars receiving the "Visionary Award,” Miley Cyrus’ “Ultimate Choice Award” and Maroon 5 honored with the “Decade Award.”
Audiences were also treated to musical numbers by KYLE, who performed his hit song, “iSpy,” alongside Lil Yachty; Rita Ora performed her new single, “Your Song,” and Louis Tomlinson performed “Back to You” with Bebe Rexha.
Check out all the big winners below!






































Prince Harry’s cousin-in-law Mike Tindall has given Meghan Markle the royal stamp of approval!
The former athlete, who is married to Harry’s cousin, Zara, told Sunday People that while it’s “nerve-wracking” dating a royal, he doesn’t envision Markle having any problems settling in if she becomes engaged to the prince.
“It comes with a lot of history and the family that it is. It’s obviously nerve-racking,” Tindall said. “But she has been under enough scrutiny and pressure in her day-to-day life, so I’m sure she will get through it. She will be fine.”
“As long as they are both happy that’s all that you can ask for,” he added. “She’ll do absolutely fine.”
The 32-year-old royal and 36-year-old actress have been dating for nearly a year. They recently enjoyed an African safari vacation over Markle’s birthday.
Harry is yet to introduce his girlfriend to Tindall, who said, “it will be nice to meet her.”
And the first thing Tindall plans to do when he meets the Canadian beauty?
Try to get her to dish spoilers on her TV show, Suits!
EXCLUSIVE: Meghan Markle Has Tightened Security Since Dating Prince Harry
“I’m obviously a big Suits fan,” he said. “It’s a very good show. I will definitely try and get the inside scoop on it.”
See more on the couple’s African vacay below.
DeMario Jackson is clearly trying to send a message.
The reality star was photographed wearing a T-shirt reading "Show the Tape!!!" just days ahead of Bachelor in Paradise's season four premiere.
Jackson was all smiles as he arrived at the Doheny Room in West Hollywood on Friday, showing off his shirt with black pants and matching sneakers.
The former Bachelorette contestant made headlines after an encounter between him and Corinne Olympios halted production on season four of Paradise in June following a producer's complaints of misconduct. Warner Bros. announced nearly two weeks later that their investigation found no wrongdoing, and filming had resumed, but neither Jackson nor Olympios returned to Mexico to complete the season.
While it's unclear how much of Jackson's interactions with Olympios will be shown when Paradise premieres on Monday, the latest promo shows the two getting close in the pool. 
"This is 30 minutes into Paradise, Corinne and DeMario are already having a blast, hanging out with each other in the pool," contestant Alex Woytkiew says in the preview, before producers start whisking Corinne and DeMario away from conversations.
"Corinne was getting pulled away, DeMario was getting pulled away, and I'm thinking, 'What did he just do?'" contestant Danielle Maltby explains. "Are Corinne and DeMario OK? All we know is that we aren't filming, so what the f**k is happening?"
Chris Harrison told ET that he would be sitting down for interviews with both Jackson and Olympios to discuss the situation. See more in the video below. 
Soulmates!
Kevin Hart and his pregnant wife, Eniko Parrish, celebrated their first wedding anniversary on Sunday by dedicating sweet messages to each other on Instagram.
The 38-year-old comedian gushed over his "unbelievable wife" with a candid snapshot from their wedding ceremony.
"Thank u for all that you do," he captioned the snap. "Thank you for loving me & supporting me at the highest level...Thank you for loving and embracing my kids the way you do. Thank you for turning my house into home."
"Thank you for simply making me Happy," continued the Jumanji star. "You are & will forever be my 'Rib'….[one] year down & the rest of our life to go. Our family & our union is getting bigger & stronger & I love it!!!!!"
Parrish, 32, also shared a photo from their wedding day along with a heartwarming dedication to her "soulmate."
"I'm Grateful to God everyday for putting us together," she began. "When it's real, no love/bond can ever be faked nor broken. My partner in life, My other half that makes me whole, My SOULMATE.♥ Thank you for always keeping a smile on my face. I love you more everyday. 8 years together…1 year married..Forever to go!"
The mom-to-be added, "Happy [1-year-anniversary] babe! We made it!"
MORE: Kevin Hart's Wife Eniko Flaunts Baby Bump in Bikini: 'Halfway There!'
The anniversary comes just over a month after Hart laughed-off cheating rumors, which were sparked by a photo of him with another woman while in Miami, Florida.
Hart was spotted chatting with the woman outside of a Miami Beach hotel at around 5 a.m. on July 3, but the early-morning encounter was strictly platonic.
"It's absolutely not true," Hart told ET's Kevin Frazier of the cheating rumors before explaining why he was out so late. "It's Miami, the clubs close at 6 a.m., so I was actually going home early."
EXCLUSIVE: Kevin Hart Reveals Whether He's Ready to Have More Kids With Wife Eniko Parrish
Happy birthday, Chris Hemsworth!
The Thor star turned 34 on Friday, and celebrated with a romantic weekend away with his wife, Elsa Pataky, on Australia's Orpheus Island.
Pataky and Hemsworth were two of just 28 guests on the secluded hideaway on the Great Barrier Reef, and if the actor didn't get enough of the VIP treatment from the exclusive resort, he also got some pampering from his wife!
"Happy birthday to my koala bear!! @chrishemsworth. best weekend ever!" Pataky captioned a cute shot of herself carrying her husband. "Love you always and forever!! #shitimstrong 💪😜 #paradise @orpheusisland @australia ❤️❤️."
ET recently sat down with Hemsworth in New York City, where he revealed that Pataky has kept him "healthy" throughout the years. 
"She's great at just kind of being incredibly optimistic that it'll work out," he explained. "I'm not pessimistic, but I'm certainly cautious at times or kind of concerned, 'Oh, what if this happens, or this, or this?' And she's like, 'It's fine. You're on a good thing.'"
"She makes me enjoy it, you know. She makes me kind of just go, 'You've worked your a** off. Now have fun. Enjoy it. And continue to work and apply that same sort of, you know, commitment, but you're allowed to enjoy it too,'" he added.
See more in the video below.
Khloe Kardashian is opening up about her romance with Canadian basketballer Tristan Thompson, calling it the “best relationship” she’s ever been in and sharing the most “scary” thing about the prospect of starting a family with the athlete.
The 33-year-old Keeping Up With the Kardashians star talked to the Mail on Sunday's YOU magazine about her stance on getting married again and the possibility of starting a family.
“I’m in the best relationship I’ve ever been in and it doesn’t take a ring for me to feel that way,” Kardashian said. “I believe in marriage and I want to be married again one day but I don’t have a time frame. Why do people think that marriage equates to happiness? There are a lot of people in unhealthy marriages.”
Kardashian -- who filed for divorce from NBA star Lamar Odom in 2013, after four years of marriage -- added that she and her fellow Christian beau share the same “belief system and morals,” which makes their relationship easier.
She also shared how Thompson, whom she’s been dating for a year, is protective of the entire Kardashian clan and makes her feel secure and loved.
“My boyfriend is very protective of me,” she gushed. “Feeling loved and validated and secure is a huge thing. Tristan is protective of my entire family, which is beautiful. And I love that everything we do is as a union. When he speaks, it’s ‘us’ and ‘we,’ and that’s important because it shows that you’re sharing life.”
“The best thing is that we’re able to communicate about anything, and I think a lot of relationships don’t flourish because people are afraid to voice their opinion, not wanting to rock the boat,” Kardashian added.
While the Revenge Body star said Thompson is a great father to his 8-month-old son, Prince (from a previous relationship), she admitted she’s in no rush to pop out babies herself.
“I definitely want a family, but I don’t feel any pressure,” she said. “Tristan is a great and he definitely wants more children, but we both feel that it will happen when the time is right. We’re still in a new relationship and I love us having time together.”
“Once you have kids you can’t get back your non-kid years,” she added. “My sisters and I bother my mom all the time, so it’s not like when they’re 18, you don’t worry about them again. You worry about your children for the rest of your life. The concern I have is raising little human beings in a world that’s filled with such hate and terror. That seems very scary.”
For now, she’s happy playing aunt to her siblings’ children, calling her place “the fun house” for her nieces and nephews.
“We do arts and crafts and bake a lot," she shared. "We like to play outside and in the pool, just being goofy. I have water balloons and we have water fights. I’m like a big kid myself. At night when I babysit them we have dance parties. I love to give their moms the evening off.”
Check out the epic 4th of July party that Kardashian and Thompson threw in the video below.
No "respectful, loving space" here!
Orlando Bloom and Katy Perry were spotted getting pretty close at Ed Sheeran's Staples Center concert in Los Angeles on Saturday night.
Bloom and his possible on-again girlfriend covered up in jackets and baseball caps during the show, but that didn't stop fans from recognizing the pair as they cuddled up on Saturday. An eyewitness tells ET that "Orlando put his arm around Katy's waist several times, and at one point, she sat on his lap."
"Orlando seemed to be having a great time and really seemed to enjoy the concert, even dancing at one point," the eyewitness says, adding that the two were sitting in first row floor seats with a side view of the stage. "Katy was more laid back and seemed to just be listening and taking it all in."
A second eyewitness who saw Perry and Bloom backstage near the dressing rooms after the concert tells ET that "They seemed to be happy and uplifted. They were holding hands."
"They all seemed to be having the time of their lives! They looked to be enjoying the music. They danced a lot," a third eyewitness at the concert told ET. "[Bloom] held and hugged her from behind."
The pair's reps announced in February that the two were taking "respectful, loving space" after nearly a year together, but Saturday's concert wasn't the first time they've reunited. 

Vienna Girardi is mourning the loss of her twin daughters.
The Bachelor alum took to Facebook on Sunday to reveal that she suffered a miscarriage on Aug. 5, losing both babies to TTTS (Twin to Twin Transfusion Syndrome).
"On Aug 3rd, I went in for an ultra sound bc the Perinatologist noticed one of my twins had more fluids than the other which was the first sign of TTTS(Twin to Twin Transfusion Syndrome) this is when one twin takes more nutrients than the other. They said that it did look like it had improved over the last week though," Girardi began her emotional essay. "Unfortunately, that was not the case and that evening my water broke due to the amniotic sacs rupturing. I spent the next 2 days in the hospital trying everything to save them."
"My little angels went to Heaven on Aug 5th and I was rushed into the OR for emergency surgery and was in the ICU for 4 days," she continued. "I don't know why this happened and I pray the Lord gives me strength to understand why he needed my little girls."
"RIP My Sweet Angels 💕," Girardi concluded. "Your mommy will never forget you and I loved you both with my entire heart."
Girardi was previously engaged to Bachelor Jake Pavelka, after winning his final rose on season 14 of the ABC dating show. Shortly after their messy split, Girardi appeared on Bachelor Pad 2, where she romanced Bachelorette alum Kasey Kahl.
Girardi got engaged to Todd Allen, her boyfriend of three years, last August. She announced that she was expecting twins in June.
Sylvester Stallone has officially joined This Is Us. There was just one problem on his first day -- cellphone coverage!
The legendary actor began filming the hit NBC series in Santa Clarita, California, on Saturday, and while he managed to document his exciting new role on social media, getting online proved a mission.
EXCLUSIVE: Chrissy Metz Dishes on ‘Complicated’ Storyline in ‘This Is Us’ Season 2
“The irony is we can get Wi-Fi in Bulgaria, surrounded by wolves, but we can’t get it in Santa Clarita,” he said in an Instagram video, while panning to show his co-star, Chrissy Metz, getting lint removed from her outfit.
The star continued to humorously vent in the caption for the video.
“THIS is one of the great mysteries in MY life!!!” he wrote. “We can travel to the far ends of the UNIVERSE, yet, it's hard to find a decent local cell site!????! A MINI CELL PHONE HORROR movies starring Sylvester Stallone and Chrissy Metz ... and thank you Dan Fogelman you have created a great show. #thisisus @chrissymetz.”
While he couldn’t get enough signal to post his video until Sunday, Stallone did manage to upload a series of pics from set on Saturday, including a shot with his “good buddy” Milo Ventimiglia, whom he credited for inviting him onto the series.
Another snap showed him getting punched by Metz, while a third showed him dressed matchy-matchy with hunky co-star Justin Hartley. Stallone will share a pivotal storyline with Hartley's character, Kevin, in This Is Us' upcoming second season.
“On the THIS IS US set with Justin Hartley, this is a fantastic show and he is great to work with!” Stallone wrote.
Stallone is guest starring as Hartley’s character Kevin’s dad in the upcoming second season.
Ventimiglia – who previously worked with Stallone on 2006's Rocky Balboa – recently talked to ET about having the 71-year-old star sign on for a role.
“It's nice to know that the material attracts the greats even like Sly,” he said. “And to know that he'd want to be a part and play with us, it's a very good feeling, so we're thrilled."
"I'm personally excited, too, because his character's involvement gives Jack a lot,” Ventimiglia added. “Because you imagine if Sylvester Stallone is Kevin's movie idol, where'd he learn that from? Probably from Jack, probably from dad."
See more from the interview below.
Stassi Schroeder's anniversary with her on-again, off-again boyfriend Patrick Meagher didn't go quite as planned.
On Sunday, the 29-year-old reality star tweeted that Meagher broke up with her on their anniversary. Just one day before, Schroeder professed her love for the radio host in a now-deleted post.
"Broken up with on our anniversary after I planned a trip for us to Mexico," Schroeder wrote on Sunday. "Call me Carrie Bradshaw. @rachaelnobrien you're coming w me now."
Schroeder is of course referencing the plot of the 2008 Sex and the City movie, when Mr. Big (Chris Noth) gets cold feet on his wedding day to Carrie (Sarah Jessica Parker). Carrie ended up going on their planned honeymoon with her BFFs, Charlotte (Kristin Davis), Miranda (Cynthia Nixon) and Samantha (Kim Cattrall).
On Instagram, the Vanderpump Rules star shared an image of Carrie lashing out at Mr. Big.
"@Rachaelnobrien, will you accompany me to Mexico, close the shades & feed me oatmeal on the trip I planned? If I see any ❤ sh**, I may die," she wrote.
Schroeder and Meagher have been involved in a rocky relationship for the past four years. During an episode from Vanderpump Rules in January, Schroeder broke down over their breakup at the time.
"It's really hard, because my family really likes Patrick, and my friends like him, too," she shared. "I'm used to people just being like, 'Your boyfriend's an a**hole.' So, what happens if I wake up a year from now and I'm like, 'That was a f**king huge mistake to breakup?'"
Last December, she told ET she thought Meagher was "the one."
"I think he's a wonderful person… but right now, we do not mix well," she said at the time. "We fight. We fought way too much, it was way too up and down, we're both so stubborn… It's not like there wasn't enough love, that was there.”
Watch below:
Tom Cruise has apparently been injured while performing a stunt on the set of Mission: Impossible 6 in London.
In a video posted by TMZ, the actor is seen filming a scene involving jumping from scaffolding onto the roof of a building, but fell short and smacked into the edge of the structure.
EXCLUSIVE: Tom Cruise Says There Might Be a Volleyball Scene in ‘Top Gun’ Sequel
Climbing up onto the roof, he then appears to attempt continuing to run across the rooftop before falling to the ground in apparent pain.
Limping back to the edge -- pausing to bend down and hold his knees as he catches his breath -- the 55-year-old star is then pulled back to the rigging via his harness, before limping away.
The extent of Cruise’s injury is unknown.
ET has reached out to the actor’s rep for comment.
See Cruise talk to ET about another upcoming sequel for Top Gun below.
Thomas Rhett and his wife Lauren Akins welcomed a sweet baby girl on Saturday.
The country singer-songwriter announced the birth of Ada James with an adorable photo of the family posted to Instagram on Sunday morning.
"Last night at 10:28 PM Ada James Akins was born and it was truly the most amazing thing I have ever experienced," Rhett, 27, wrote. "I can't believe that we have two daughters!!"
The "Crash and Burn" singer added that he has a "newfound respect for moms" following his wife's long labor of 36 hours.
"My wife @laur_akins labored for almost 36 hours," he continued. "She is by far the strongest human being I have ever met and I have a newfound respect for moms around the world. We are so excited that Willa Gray has a baby sister! Thank you Lord and everyone for the prayers."
Rhett added the "#outnumbered" hashtag, referencing the couple's recently adopted daughter, 1-year-old Willa Gray.
Akins also posted the same snap to her Instagram account, referencing the 36-hour labor, "Only Jesus got me through that, and she is sooo worth it. She weighs 7 pounds 3 ounces and is so stinking cute I just can't take it!"
The proud mom added that the new family of four are "doing well now, just resting."
"Thank y'all for the prayers -- she is a miracle and God is so good," she continued. "Thomas Rhett and I are so [in] love with her. And Willa Gray is so excited to finally have a baby sister."
MORE: Country Singer Thomas Rhett and Wife Lauren Expecting a Baby and Adopting a Child
In February, the couple announced that they were not only expecting, but they were also in the process of adopting a baby girl from Africa. The GRAMMY nominee later told ET's Sophie Schillaci that he planned to make any and all adjustments necessary to be able to take his family on tour.
"We've already added a crib to our tour bus," he said. "We're trying to make all the right alterations to make sure that our kids can come [on tour]."
The singer added that he made sure to stock up on sleep in anticipation of the couple's new arrival. (Smart move, Rhett!)
"I wish I got a break, but I doubt it's gonna happen," he told Schillaci. "We're just gonna try to integrate them into our lives as much as possible and try to just create as much of a normal lifestyle as possible. I'm getting all the sleep I can right now, because I know that I'm about to not sleep ever."
As for having two girls? Rhett is elated!
"Before we even started wanting to have kids, I wanted girls. I'm just gonna love them so much," he confessed. "I'm nervous about it as well -- I don't want to deal with boyfriends down the road, you know?"
For more on the happy parents, watch the video below.
Real Housewives of New York City star Carole Radziwill and her boyfriend, Adam Kenworthy, have ended their relationship, a source tells ET.
The source says that Radziwill and Kenworthy are officially over, months after he moved out, as depicted on an episode of RHONY. Kenworthy, 32, is now living downtown. The source adds that the breakup has been "really difficult" for the both of them, and though they have struggled to come to terms with it, they remain friendly.
Radziwill's rep tells ET, "I never comment on Carole's personal life."
Rumors began swirling about the breakup when the 53-year-old RHONY star recently unfollowed her chef beau on Instagram. And according to previous episodes of the hit Bravo TV series, living together clearly took its toll on the couple.
"Living together, our relationship evolved past the point where either of us felt comfortable," Radziwill said during confessional on the show. "I didn't want to keep reminding him to pick up his socks. I'm not that girl."
The star added during a conversation with friend and co-star Bethenny Frankel, "It's not like we don't love each other. I feel like there's balance again. Our relationship is not one where we should be living together."
News of their breakup comes less than two weeks after another notable RHONY split -- Luann de Lesseps announced via Twitter that she and husband Tom D'Agostino were divorcing after just seven months of marriage.
MORE: 'RHONY' Star Luann de Lesseps and D'Agostino to Divorce After 7 Months of Marriage
For more on the couple's breakup and how it will affect the series, watch the clip below.
With reporting by Darla Murray.
Bruno Mars is giving back!
The 31-year-old singer is donating $1 million from his Michigan concert to help those affected by the Flint water crisis. Mars made the announcement during his sold-out show in Auburn Hills, Michigan, on Saturday.
"I'm very thankful to the Michigan audience for joining me in supporting this cause," Mars said in a statement. "Ongoing challenges remain years later for Flint residents, and it's important that we don't forget our brothers and sisters affected by this disaster. As people, especially as Americans, we need to stand together to make sure something like this never happens in any community ever again."
Mars and Live Nation will redirect funds from the Detroit show to The Community Foundation of Greater Flint, an organization that addresses the issues brought on by the effects of the water crisis.
The "Versace on the Floor" singer is currently on his 24K Magic World Tour and will be honored with the Visionary Award at the 2017 Teen Choice Awards on Sunday.
For more on the singer, watch the video below.
Keep the Backstreet pride alive!
Nick Carter, Howie Dorough, Brian Littrell, AJ McLean and Kevin Richardson are celebrating 20 years since the U.S. release of their first album, Backstreet Boys.
"What a 20 years it’s been! To each and every one of you who's been a part of this journey, thank you! We love you all. 💙 #20YearsBackstreetAlbum," the band wrote on Instagram on Saturday.
EXCLUSIVE: Watch the Backstreet Boys Help a Fan Propose to His Girlfriend With a Sweet Surprise Serenade!
BSB released their self-titled album on Aug. 12, 1997. On Saturday, the singers -- who will return to their Vegas residency in November -- were among the opening acts for Florida Georgia Line and performed at Wrigley Field in Chicago, Illinois.
McLean took to Instagram Stories to thank fans for their constant dedication to the group.
"I think it's pretty awesome that today, 20 years ago, our first U.S. album was released and here we are now, 20 years later, selling out Wrigley Field. God bless you guys," he said.
"I want to thank you guys for helping us create this 20th anniversary for Backstreet’s first album," Dorough added on Instagram. "You guys are the heart and soul of the group. You guys are the Backstreet army and happy anniversary to you too."
Earlier this year, ET spoke with BSB about their surprising secret to staying in harmony for more than two decades.
"It's like a marriage," Richardson confessed, with his bandmates quickly echoing the sentiment.
"We go to counseling," Carter added, revealing that it was Dorough who came up with the idea. "We talk things out," he explained.
See more in the video below.
Jordin Sparks and Dana Isaiah are red carpet official!
The 27-year-old singer and her boyfriend posed for photographers together at the 2017 Harold & Carole Pump Foundation Gala at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Beverly Hills, California, on Friday.
The American Idol winner was all smiles and looked radiant in a royal blue sheath dress, which she accessorized with black pumps. Meanwhile, Isaiah opted for a gray suit with a black button-up shirt and lavender handkerchief.
Later that night, Sparks took the stage and was one of the evening's performers.
The couple has been going steady for a while, frequently sharing adorable pictures of each other on Instagram.
Earlier this month, Isaiah dedicated a sweet post to Sparks on National Girlfriend Day, writing, "Shoutout to a real one ❤️🔒," alongside a pic of the two kissing in front of the sunset.
For another couple who recently made it official, watch below.
It’s a sad time for Chelsea Handler.
The 42-year-old Chelsea host shared on social media on Friday that her beloved dog, Tammy, died.
"I lost my bear today," Handler began her note. "She was struggling and I couldn't bear to have her fight anymore. Anyone who doesn't believe a dog changes your life has never rescued one. I only had 2 years with Tammy, but she made sure I never went to bed once without hearing her little paws mount my stairwell 2 paws at a time. If my door was closed, she slept outside my room like a security guard."
"Dogs give you something you never knew was missing," she continued. "I love you, bear. Thanks for being such a girl. I will get another dog that needs a home and it will remind me every day how much I miss you. Lub lub lub. @realtammyhandler."
The comedian also posted a heartbreaking message on Tammy’s Instagram account.
"It is with a very heavy heart that we must inform you of the passing of our beloved bear, Tammy," she captioned a black-and-white pic of the two. "She lived life to the fullest and never let her struggles bring her down. We love you, Tammy, and we will miss you dearly. Please keep her and her mama in your thoughts and prayers tonight. Forever and always, Team Tammy 🐾💋."
Last week, Handler wrote on Instagram that her pup was "recuperating from renal failure."
"My whole family is falling apart. Poor @realtammyhandler is recuperating from renal failure while remembering happier times...Fight like a bear, bear. These poor dogs. I'm starting to think it might be my parenting," she shared at the time.
On Saturday, Handler remembered her sweet friend by posting a sentimental pic and writing, "Rainbows are the best sign the person you loved the most is with you. #tammytime."
For the latest on Handler, watch the video below.
Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Peta Murgatroyd go glam!
The newlyweds attended their friends, Ashley and Johnny’s, wedding in Lake Como, Italy, on Saturday -- and took to social media to show off their fabulous ensembles.
“Wedding time with my loves.  So happy to celebrate Ashley and Johnny!
#nosleeptillcomo,” Murgatroyd captioned her fabulous Instagram slideshow. The Dancing With the Stars pro looked exquisite in a bright red, strapless maxi gown, which she accessorized with a black choker and cherry lips. Meanwhile, Chmerkovskiy looked dapper in a crisp white button-up shirt and black suit.
The 37-year-old dancer also shared a handful of snaps on his Instagram, showing off his beautiful lady.
The couple was also joined by Maks brother, Val Chmerkovskiy, who shared a gorgeous black-and-white pic of the bride and groom.
“To a beautiful life spent celebrating one another. You've become one, now may you multiply bringing life into this world. May God bless you and strengthen this beautiful union for a lifetime to come. #TheLennons #nosleeptillcomo,” he wrote.
Maks and Peta have been documenting their time in Italy all week, sharing gorgeous snaps of the two together and enjoying the beautiful scenery.
For more on their travels, watch the video below.
We're incredibly impressed by Sterling K. Brown's dance skills!
The 41-year-old actor showed off his moves in an epic dance battle with Derek Hough on Friday.
"My man @sterlingkbrown has moves #nbc #thisisus #dancing #robot," Hough captioned a video of their dance-off.
Though it's unclear what prompted the battle, this isn't the first time Brown has gotten down on Instagram. In fact, the actor posted another "impromptu dance session" last Sunday.
EXCLUSIVE: Why Sterling K. Brown Is Keeping It All in Perspective
While Brown gets his boogie on, his This Is Us mom, Mandy Moore, has been hard at work.
"And that's a wrap on episode 3 for me. Happy weekend, folks! #thisisus 📷by @zoehaymakeup," she wrote alongside a sweet BTS photo of herself on set.
Moore recently revealed to ET that she'll be bringing more of her musical talents to the show's second season. 
"There may be some singing coming up, I'm just saying," she dished. "I don't know if it'll be [Chrissy Metz and I] together or us by ourselves. Might be happening."
See more in the video below.
Selena Gomez and The Weeknd like to laugh!
The cute couple was spotted cracking up on a date night at the Laugh Factory in Hollywood, California, on Friday.
Gomez and The Weekend took a seat on the upper mezzanine of the comedy club, in the venue's more private seating section. The two couldn't contain their smiles in a sweet shot The Laugh Factory later posted on Instagram.
The pair enjoyed performances by comics like 2 Broke Girls star Jonathan Kite, Raj Sharma, Max Amini and Chris Redd, and Tacarra Williams, who later shared a video of her and Gomez on social media.
The 25-year-old singer-actress recently gushed about her beau in an interview with InStyle, telling the magazine that she's "lucky because he’s more of a best friend than anything else." 
"I don’t depend on one area of my life to make me happy," she said of how her romance with The Weeknd is different from any other relationship. "It’s really important for me to love and nourish my friends and family and to make sure that I never get influenced by a guy. I’ve wanted to be in a strong head space for years, and I really wasn’t. Before, I was so young and easily influenced, and I’d feel insecure. You want someone to add to your life, not to complete you, if that makes sense."
See more in the video below.
Stars are taking to social media to express their shock and condemnation of the white nationalist rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, on Saturday.
Charlottesville officials declared a state of emergency in the city shortly after 11 a.m., after hundreds of people crashed the rally, which saw men dressed in militia uniforms carrying shields and guns to protest the city's decision to remove a statue of Confederate General Robert E. Lee.
"I pray a true leader will rise to expel hatred from America. This is not US! This is Anti-American #ThisIsNotUS #Charlottesville #BeKind," Lady Gaga tweeted. "I know we are not created to hate each other, but to help & love. Use hashtag #BeKind #ThisIsNotUS to tweet positive messages. #Charlotte."
Zendaya, meanwhile, took to Instagram to comment on the violence and chemical sprays used in the rally, calling the event "terrorism."
"I really don't know what to say...but this is terrorism," she captioned a video of the rally. "This is America TODAY...not 40 years ago, and your president is silent. Disgusting."
President Donald Trump later took to Twitter, writing, “We ALL must be united & condemn all that hate stands for. There is no place for this kind of violence in America. Lets come together as one!”
See more celebrity reactions below.
Kevin James and Leah Remini are together again!
In June, CBS announced that Remini would be returning as a series regular on the second season of Kevin Can Wait, following the untimely departure of Kevin’s wife in season one, Erinn Hayes.
Remini will star alongside her King of Queens husband Kevin James as Vanessa Cellucci, a wise-cracking undercover police woman.
Season two of the sitcom has officially started shooting, and Remini took to Instagram on Friday to share a first look of life on set.
“It's been an amazing first week on @kevincanwaitcbs, so blessed that I had my family with me,” the 47-year-old actress wrote. “Thank you to all who came out tonight, cast, crew, writers, thank you for the love!”
Remini recently opened up about reprising her character on The Late Show after guest-starring in just two episodes last season.
“At the end of his first season, I played his ex-partner. We were cops together, we were detectives together. So I just come back as that character,” Remini explained of her role.
When CBS executives were asked if Remini and James’ Kevin Can Wait reunion is just a roundabout way of rebooting King of Queens, they quickly shot the notion down.
"I don’t think so,” said Thom Sherman, CBS programming executive. “The show speaks for itself and stands for itself. Obviously, the chemistry [between Kevin James and Leah Remini] was amazing in the stunt episodes.”
The second season of Kevin Can Wait premieres Monday, Sept. 25 at 9 p.m. ET/PT on CBS.
Aaron Carter is feeling the love.
The 29-year-old singer took to Twitter on Saturday to thank fans for their support since opening up about his sexuality.
"I was in shock!!" Carter wrote of fans' embracing him during his performance at gay bar Hamburger Mary's near his hometown in Brandon, Florida, on Friday. "It was an emotional night in a lot of ways."
In a video obtained by TMZ, the singer is shown breaking down into tears as the audience chanted his name. 
"I just want to thank you for all your love and support in the LGBT community and my announcement. It means a lot," he said. "Yes, I am a bisexual man. That motherf**ker right there is gorgeous. You're gorgeous. He's kind of cute."
"It is what it is. I am who I am," he continued, before playing the crowd a new song, "Hard to Love," which he wrote about his ex-girlfriend, Madison Parker. "I wrote this song about my ex girlfriend that just left, so bye Felicia. This song is about her."
"I just wanted to say thank you for believing in me, guys," he said through tears. "Even if you don't, I still love you."
EXCLUSIVE: Aaron Carter Tearfully Opens Up About His Eating Disorder: 'I Am Sorry For the Way I Look' 
Carter seemed to further open up about his split with Madison on Saturday, tweeting, "Some people aren't loyal to you, they are loyal to their need of you. Once their needs change so do their loyalties as I've learned."
"Being single isn't fun I'm not gonna lie. But I'm gonna do it for awhile for myself," he said. "My decision and choices are apart of me, no matter what the outcome may be."
EXCLUSIVE: Aaron Carter Says He and Brother Nick Might Never Reconcile: 'There's Too Much Animosity'
See more on Carter's split from Parker in the video below.
There is nothing this girl can’t pull off.
Bella Hadid is the September cover girl for Elle Russia, and took to Instagram on Saturday to share some fun and feisty looks from her shoot.
The 20-year-old model rocked multiple leather dresses in the photos, even sprawling across a staircase in one snap.
Hear about one of Hadid’s major wardrobe malfunction moments in the video below.
Get a woman who can do both.
Madonna may be an global superstar, but she is also a soccer mom! The 58-year-old mother-of-six took to Instagram on Saturday to share a photo of her 4-year-old twin daughters, Stelle and Estere, geared up for soccer practice.
“Going in!” she captioned the fun pic of the girls in their uniforms. “Saturday sesh!”
Earlier this week, the “Ray of Light” singer shared a few other family photos, this time of the twins with their older brother, 11-year-old David.
Madonna confirmed in February that she had adopted the twins from Malawi. David, along with her adopted daughter Mercy James, 11, were also born in the African country.
In addition to her four adopted children, the singer also has two biological children, 20-year-old Lourdes Leon and 17-year-old Rocco Ritchie.
Hear more on her sweet family in the video below.
Lauren Bushnell is Instagram official with her new beau!
The former Bachelor shared her first pic of herself with Devin Antin on Instagram on Saturday. 
EXCLUSIVE: Lauren Bushnell Reluctantly Offers Advice to Rachel Lindsay: 'Put Your Relationship First'
"Dibs," Bushnell wrote alongside the cute pic.
The blogger also flaunted PDA with Antin on her Instagram Story, leaning in for a sweet kiss.
ET exclusively caught up with Bushnell on Thursday, when she gave her first on-camera interview since her May split from Ben Higgins. The blonde beauty revealed that despite their breakup, the two have no bad blood -- but she is extra "protective" over her new relationship with Antin. 
"I have nothing negative to say about Ben," she shared. "He's such a good person. There's nothing wrong with him at all. He did nothing wrong, I did nothing wrong, it's just more like… sometimes it doesn't work, and the pressure [of getting married] obviously is an added element. But I don't think that's necessarily what caused a breakup."
"I'm very protective over [this new relationship], because it's someone that I've known for a while," Bushnell explained. "We had a friendship established before I even went on The Bachelor. When you go through a breakup -- for me, at least -- that was the last thing on my mind. I wanted to just take the time to, like, take a deep breath and think back on things that happened and just kind of reset a little bit."
"So, it wasn't necessarily planned, if you will," she added. "It's a friendship, and because of that friendship first, I'm also very protective of it. So, I haven't really shared a lot about it, but I'm very happy."
See more in the video below.
Nikki Minaj is flaunting what she's got!
The 34-year-old rapper took to Instagram on Saturday to show off her booty in a sexy mirror selfie.
Minaj sports thigh-high silver fringe boots and a thong one piece in the pic, completing her look with a sassy blonde wig.
The "Anaconda" rapper posted a pic of the front of the ensemble last month, writing, "New stripper boots, who dis? I love being a stripper."
Minaj also shared a throwback pic on Saturday of her blue latex outfit from her night out with Blac Chyna. 
See more in the video below.
Kim Kardashian means business!
The 36-year-old reality star stepped out looking ready for both the gym and a business meeting in the early hours of Saturday morning.
Kardashian paired an oversized suit jacket with cropped leggings and a bandeau top as she visited friends in Bel-Air. She accessorized the unique look with clear heels and minimal jewelry.
Though she was out late at night, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star woke up early to share a sweet throwback snap of herself and husband Kanye West from their rehearsal dinner before their 2014 wedding.
Kardashian reflected on motherhood on Friday, writing on her blog that she has "such unconditional love" for 4-year-old daughter North and 1-year-old son Saint.
"No matter what, I will always love them and support them in anything they choose to do in life," she shared. "My family was so close growing up; now that I'm a mom, I understand the bond my mom and dad felt with us."
"There can be ups and downs with kids but no matter what, I always learn so much from them," she added. "Being a mom is the most important job I have."
See more in the video below.
Fast & Furious is going global.
Vin Diesel took to Facebook Live on Wednesday to announce that the Fast & Furious franchise will now be a live show.
"As you know, my work with Fast & Furious never ends, which I'm grateful for because of you all," the 50-year-old actor said. "So now, I am in New York, believe it or not, and we are filming something that is going to be pretty state-of-the-art, something no one's ever seen before, which is a live show. I think it's first gonna be a show at the O2 Arena in London that's gonna go all over the world and we're really excited about it. But it'll be a way for you to kind of see the action firsthand."
"I'm in the middle of shooting it right now," he added. "It's amazing how many studios there are in New York City now."
According to the Fast & Furious Live website, this show is sure to be unlike anything you’ve ever seen. The show will recreate some crowd favorite stunts from the eight-film franchise, so much so that “you’ll feel the heat from flaming, nitrous charged exhausts” and “wonder ‘how’d they do that’ as scene after scene unfolds.”
The Fast & Furious Live global tour is set to hit the road January 2018.
Days after returning from her honeymoon, Julianne Hough is off on another trip!
This time, however, the Dancing With the Stars judge made time for her girls.
"It only took 11 years to make this happen. But my high school besties and I finally went on a girls trip," Hough captioned a cute snap of herself surrounded by her BFFs. "We miss you @kandymarlowe & @mikeannebailey #kristyisthenewestishy #11yearsinthemaking #isheswiththefishes #imonaboat #cruisenobooze 🚢🐋⚓️🏔🎣🐻🚣🏼🐺."
We still can't get over the 29-year-old dancer's gorgeous honeymoon -- and neither can her brother, Derek Hough!
"Julianne is killing life right now," Derek told ET last week.  "She is just killing it! Her wedding was literally the best week of my life. It was the most fun, exciting and perfect, perfection, beautiful, magical thing I've ever experienced." 
"Their honeymoon photos were pretty," he added. "It's actually kind of a joke. It was actually a joke, because we [all] spent so much time together [around the wedding]. I was joking, like, 'Oh, you're going to take me, right? For the honeymoon? I'm going to be there.'"
See more in the video below.
Todd Chrisley is one proud papa!
Chrisley Knows Best star and family patriarch Todd Chrisley took to Instagram on Friday to wish a happy birthday to his daughter, Savannah, who just celebrated her 20th birthday.
“Oh how I love this girl @savannahchrisley,” the real estate developer wrote. “Happy Birthday my sweet girl! I am so proud to be your dad! #cantbelieveyouare20 #happybirthday”
Savannah also got some birthday love from her new beau, NBA basketball player Luke Kennard.
“HAPPY BIRTHDAY!!!! Wish I was there to celebrate with you,” the 21-year-old wrote. “I hope you have the best day and I can't wait to see you again!”
The lovebirds confirmed they were dating in June, around the same time Kennard was drafted to the Detroit Pistons.
Savannah shared a sweet selfie of the pair at the time, gushing that Kennard is “her guy.” Kennard also took to Instagram to confirm his new relationship, posting photos of him and Savannah in NYC.
“We took over NYC.... and Detroit is next! Thankful for the support she has given me,” Kennard wrote. “Beyond blessed with this girl in my life!”
Hear more on the new romance in the video below.
We could all use a little bit of Laura Dern's advice.
The 50-year-old actress writes a touching letter to her 12-year-old daughter, Jaya, in the September issue of InStyle, sharing the importance of letting go of expectations and limitations, and instead embracing your own path. 
"I’ve spent a lot of my life going, 'OK, I’m going to be an actress, but I have to give it everything, so I probably won’t be able to also have a successful relationship,' or 'I’m about to be a mother, so I’ll give up my acting' or 'I’m married, so I’m going to put my career on hold and be ‘a good wife’ and support him,'" Dern recalls, before noting that Hillary Clinton's recent presidential campaign made her start "realizing that focusing on one thing in an effort not to fail at anything else was a weight I was carrying."
"I want to be a woman who does it all, no matter how it turns out," she writes. "Jaya, I’ve awoken to something recently, and it has inspired me during this time in my life. Here it is: Life is scary, and it’s glorious. You’re never going to get it all right. You’ll get it deliciously messed up, and that will be part of figuring out who you are."
The actress then discusses the perils of placing too much weight on social media, and how she hopes her daughter sees beyond the superficial expectations of public life.
"I want you to have faith and hear yourself when you’re just barely holding it together. I want you to be able to talk to friends about their gray areas and be open about your own without judgment," she continues. "You will succeed and fail in equal measure. Both experiences are worthwhile. They will both define you. The truth is, the minute I surrendered to the flow of the mess of life, everything came together magnificently: my longing for art, my skill as an actor, and my capacities as a friend and mother."
"The beauty of being a woman today is in savoring the minutiae of life, all the moments that add up to you. The joy you’ll find in being in your body, in sexuality and sensuality, in service, in art, in mothering. You have to get out of your own way and write your own story -- and not be forced into the narrative that you think will give you the easiest path to success or the most likes," Dern concludes. "I want you to live in the space that’s your own, your own delicious mess. The story comes from within you."
EXCLUSIVE: Laura Dern Jokes That Her Upcoming 50th Birthday Isn't Really a Milestone: 'We Don't Discuss Age'
Nina Dobrev is missing her feline friend.
The Vampire Diaries alum took to Instagram on Friday to share a sweet tribute to her cat, Lynx, who passed away earlier this year.
“A day doesn't go by that I don't think about my sleeping angel,” the 28-year-old wrote. “Especially on #Internationalcatday. Rest In Peace beautiful girl. Missing your sandpaper kisses terribly, my Lynx.”
Lynx had been a part of her life for 18 years before her passing in March. Dobrev memorialized her at the time, gushing over how much “joy, love, unlimited cuddles and so many sandpaper kisses” she had given her over the years.
“I still remember the first day I brought you home, the size of a tea cup purring as I held you in my hands,” the Toronto native wrote. “You were so fragile and furry, as soft as the worlds tiniest cashmere blanket. I knew in that moment you were my soulmate. From there our long journey began and we were inseparable.”
Hear more on Dobrev in the video below.
Happy birthday, Cara Delevingne!
The model turned 25 on Saturday, and celebrated the big day the only way she knows how -- with a week-long vacation with her girls in Mexico.
Friends like Adwoa Aboa, Jamie Winstone, Alice Dellal, Georgia May Jagger, and Mary Charteris hopped on a private jet with the birthday girl last week, where they then settled down at  Chablé, a five-star resort located less than half an hour from the city of Mérida on Mexico's Yucatán Peninsula.
The ladies enjoyed a little topless time by the pool, sightseeing in matching outfits and some fun in the sun on the island of Holbox.
While Delevingne surely got epic gifts as she hit a quarter century, our favorite are these matching T-shirts with her face on them.
The actress appears to be enjoying a much-needed break after killing it on her Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets press tour. See more in the video below. 
Ariel Winter and Levi Meaden are celebrating nine months together.
The cute couple took to Instagram on Friday to commemorate the milestone with adorable pics.
"9 months starting off on a night shoot with Stanley :) 💘," Winter captioned a shot of herself and Meaden petting Stanley the Giraffe. Meaden also penned a sweet message to his lady love.
"Happy 9 month anniversary to this beautiful woman!!! Every day is an adventure and I couldn't be happier," he wrote alongside a casual snap of Winter getting frozen yogurt.
Winter, 19, recently opened up about Meaden, 29, in an interview with Refinery 29 -- slamming those who are critical of their relationship. 
"I don’t understand why someone would even comment on our situation at all," she said. "There are tons of people of all ages that live with their boyfriend. There are tons of people that live with their girlfriends, [and] tons of people that don’t live together and are super happy. But I’m super happy in the arrangement that we have. We love living together. It’s just great."
See more in the video below.
Don’t watch these videos before bed.
Two new trailers for the seventh season of American Horror Story have dropped, and though both are only a few seconds long, they will leave you shook.
The upcoming season of the popular FX series will be centered around the 2016 president election.
“The season that we begin shooting in June is going to be about the election that we just went through,” Murphy said on Watch What Happens Live with Andy Cohen in February. “I think that will be interesting for a lot of people.”
In a recent interview with ET, Billy Eichner revealed that he gets to be “dramatic and violent and sexual” on the show.
“People may not be prepared to see that side of me,” the 38-year-old actor added.
Although last year’s sixth season was shrouded in secrecy -- the theme, Roanoke, wasn’t actually revealed until the premiere -- Murphy and FX execs decided to give fans a bit of a preview this year.
EXCLUSIVE: Billy Eichner Talks 'AHS: Cult' Role: 'I Get to Be Dramatic and Violent and Sexual'
American Horror Story: Cult premieres Sept. 5 at 10 p.m. ET/PT on FX. Check out the video below to hear more about the frightening upcoming season.
Lauren Bushnell knows a thing or two about handling a relationship in the public eye.
ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the former Bachelor star at JoJo Fletcher, Becca Tilley and Sole Society's Toast Friends and Fall Fashion event at the Dream Hotel's Highlight Room in Hollywood, where she reflected on her recent breakup with Ben Higgins, and reluctantly offered advice to Bachelorette Rachel Lindsay. 
EXCLUSIVE: Lauren Bushnell Opens Up About Feeling 'Very Alone' After Ben Higgins Split
"I feel weird giving advice, because, I don't know. I don't know if we did it right or wrong," she said of her relationship with Higgins, which ended in May. "I feel strange telling people how to do it, but I think, obviously, if they love each other -- which I'm sure they do -- obviously you don't get engaged to someone unless you love them and care about them. I would say, continue to put that first."
Bushnell and Higgins' engagement experienced the added attention of another reality show, Freeform's Ben and Lauren: Happily Ever After? In her advice to Lindsay, Bushnell said to put her relationship with Bryan Abasolo before any other opportunities in the spotlight.
"Put your relationship first. When it comes to opportunities or anything that comes after the fact, I would say always put your relationship first, would be my No. 1 piece of advice," Bushnell said. "I know it sounds simple."
EXCLUSIVE: JoJo Fletcher on Engagement to Jordan Rodgers 1 Year Later, Why They're Not 'Rushing Into' Marriage
The blogger, who told ET that she's currently working on launching a rosé called Dear Rosé, said she still can't "pinpoint" where it went wrong with Higgins.
"It's just a hard situation when you meet on TV and you get engaged in such a short amount of time," she explained. "I don't even know if anything went wrong; I think it just came to a point where, obviously you're engaged, so the next step is marriage. When it came to talking about marriage, it didn't feel completely right."
As for whether taking engagements out of Bachelor finales might lead to more lasting couples in the franchise, Bushnell said it's all about doing "whatever feels right" for those standing at the end.
"Sometimes, something might feel right at that moment and then, later on, it might not feel right and that's life!" she shared. 
"It's hard to determine what tomorrow looks like, let alone a year from now or two years. So, I would say, go with your heart," she added. "Follow your heart. Do what feels right."
Fletcher also offered advice to Lindsay on her engagement. See what she said in the video below. 
See how the A-listers live!
Bindi Irwin and her boyfriend, Chris Powell, are the cutest!
On Friday, the 19-year-old Dancing With the Stars champ shared an adorable picture on of herself and Powell with rings on that special finger -- but it isn't what you think!
"When diamonds are out of your budget ... buy ring pops instead! Just found out that it is #InternationalDiamondDay! 💎❤️💍😘 @chandlerpowell," Irwin wrote alongside a selfie of the two wearing matching ring pops.
The pair appeared to have had a "perfect day in Far North Queensland," according to the 20-year-old wakeboarder, who Instagrammed a snap of the two holding a scrub python earlier in the day.
Irwin and Powell met while he was visiting the Australia Zoo in November 2013 and later began dating long-distance. Last month, he dedicated a sweet post to Irwin on her 19th birthday.
"Happy Birthday for tomorrow to the kindest, strongest, most beautiful soul I have ever met," he began his post. "We have been together for years now and loving you will always be the greatest blessing. Every day I aspire to be more like you in the way you work tirelessly for what you believe in and the people you love most, all while carrying the most gorgeous smile."
Watch below for more on the adorable lovebirds.
Jamie Bell knew that he and Kate Mara were meant to be!
The 31-year-old actor opens up about knowing he instantly wanted to marry the House of Cards actress and his love for his 4-year-old son in the latest issue of ES Magazine.
Bell and Mara worked together on 2015's Fantastic Four and began dating shortly after filming the superhero movie. The couple tied the knot in Los Angeles in July.
"There was an instant connection, like we’d known one another forever," Bell said in the interview. "It was obvious very quickly that we were going to get married."
Bell was previously married to Evan Rachel Wood for two years before divorcing in 2014. The two share a 4-year-old son.
"Without question, the thing I’m proudest of achieving is my son," Bell expressed. "I’m obsessed. Every moment I spend with him I fall a little bit more for him. It’s almost kind of painful, that thing when you are falling into something so unconditionally.”
The actor's father left him and his mother before he was born. Now, after becoming a father,​ he has become more understanding of how difficult it is to be a good parent.
"It’s difficult raising a child. It’s really stressful. It requires a lot of you,"
​Bell shared. "You have to sacrifice your life and some people don’t want to do that. It’s not particularly noble, but I could see why the easier thing is to leave."
​But Bell emphasized that he would never walk out on his own son. "F**k no! You can’t be thinking, 'I'm doing this because no one ever gave me this experience.' The thing is not to love from a place of anger because that is potentially devastating," he replied.
PICS: Kate Mara and Jamie Bell Are Relationship Goals at Dior Fashion Show
As far as co-parenting goes​, he and Wood are on good terms and maintain a healthy relationship when it comes to raising their son.
"As kids from divorced parents we understood very quickly the importance of maintaining a good relationship,” Bell explained. "I think that is also a generational thing: we learned from our elders that it’s better if you have to share a space with someone to be able to look them in the eye. If you succeed, the kid succeeds."
For more on Bell, watch below.
Sterling K. Brown isn't afraid of a sophomore slump -- at least not anymore.
The Emmy-nominated This Is Us actor chatted with the Los Angeles Times on Friday, where he recalled wondering if they could keep the momentum going after a great first season run.
"I had this little bit of trepidation," Brown expressed. "We had a really good first season. Is there going to be a sophomore slump? And then you read what [creator] Dan Fogelman writes, and you're like, 'No, we're good.' That man is amazing, and as long as he is helming the ship, we gonna be aight."
The cast is currently filming season two of the Emmy-nominated series, yet when they were first given the script for the first episode, the final scene was "omitted for secrecy."
"[Fogelman] omitted the last scene, and I know why he did it," Brown shared. "He's done it for two scripts thus far. He's omitted the last scenes for secrecy and I understand why."
So, is​ i​t​ hard for him to keep the details to himself, even when his wife, Ryan Michelle Bathe, works with him on the drama?​ Bathe played ​Yvette, a mother of a boy young Randall befriends at the pool, in a handful of episodes.
"She is on the show, and if she asks me, sometimes I'll tell her," he confessed. "But sometimes I just want everybody to experience it. People always act like, 'What happened to Jack?' and I'm like, 'You really want to know? You really want me to tell you?' and sometimes they'll be like, 'nah,' because they know that it would ruin it for them."
As far as learning how to keep spoilers to himself, Brown stated that being part of Marvel's Black Panther is the "pinnacle of secrecy training."
​Viewers have a lot to look forward to in the new season of This is Us​. Brown ​shared that "Kate starts singing and it's got its own trials and tribulations."
"It also brings up a lot of stuff between her and her mother because her mother was a chartreuse as well," he dished. "Kevin is dealing with a new opportunity to be in front of the camera and also trying to balance that with his relationship with Sophie, which is to me, as an actor who has a family and has a character, is an interesting journey to see him go through."
Meanwhile,​ Jack and Rebecca​'s storyline​ "will pick up right where they left off, the day after he left the house. We see how or if they are able to make their way back to each other."
For even more on what to expect on season two of This Is Us, watch the video below.
Scott Porter is a dad again!
The Friday Night Lights star welcomed baby No. 2 with wife Kelsey on Thursday, taking to Instagram to share the news.
"Hello, World!!! My name is Clover Ash Porter," the 38-year-old actor shared to Instagram on Friday. "I'm 9.3 lbs, 20 1/2 Inches, and have a 37.5 CM Head."
On Thursday night, Porter shared a sweet daddy-daughter pic with his newborn, writing, "Sweet dreams, world."
MORE: 'Friday Night Lights' Star Scott Porter and His Wife Are Expecting a Girl -- See the Cute Reveal!
Little Clover's 2-year-old big brother, McCoy, was born in May 2015. Porter and his ​wife ​wed in 2013.
Last month, Kelsey shared a pic of the baby's crib to Instagram, writing, "Baby girl's nursery #cantwait #almosthere."
Congratulations to the happy family!
There's no better way to welcome Jennifer Hudson to the crew than with a beach party!
The 35-year-old singer joined fellow Voice coaches Miley Cyrus, Adam Levine and Blake Shelton for a fun beach day, posing for tons of adorably cheesy photos.
EXCLUSIVE: Adam Levine on Bringing in Joe Jonas as His 'Voice' Mentor: 'He's a Beautiful Man'
Executive producer Mark Burnett and host Carson Daly also hit the beach for some fun. Check out the photos below:
Burnett dished all about the changes coming to The Voice while speaking with ET in June. Hear what he said in the video below. 
Season 13 of The Voice premieres Monday, Sept. 25 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
Radio DJ David Mueller's lawsuit against Taylor Swift has been thrown out.
A judge released Swift from the suit on Friday, determining that the singer "did not act improperly" by reporting that Mueller had allegedly groped her during a Denver, Colorado, meet-and-greet in 2013. The judge declared that there was insufficient evidence that Swift was responsible for his firing from country station KYGO-FM, which occurred two days after the alleged incident. 
Swift's mom, Andrea, and her point contact with radio stations, Frank Bell, are still defendants in the case as Bell did contact KYGO following the alleged incident, and Andrea testified on Wednesday that she did want Mueller fired. Swift's countersuit against Mueller, in the amount of $1 for assault and battery, still stands, and will be deliberated by the judge on Monday.
Mueller was stone faced during his attorney's attempt to counter, while Swift pointedly look over while he accused her of making up her story against Mueller. When the judge announced that Mueller's claims had been dropped against Swift, the singer and her legal team appeared overjoyed. Swift said, 'holy sh*t,' and hugged her brother, Austin, as the rest of the courtroom erupted in hugs.
"Having two daughters, a son, a wife of 32 years, I couldn't be more proud to represent someone like Taylor Swift who is willing to step up in a situation like this," Swift's attorney, Doug Baldridge, said in a statement to ET. "And I am grateful to say to Judge Martinez, to the marshals, to the people of Denver for getting the law right."
Reporting by Tracie de la Rosa and Sophie Schillaci.
See more on the trial in the video below. 
When in doubt, ask Reddit!
Serena Williams took to her fiancé, Alexis Ohanian's, website to ask users for pregnancy advice on Friday.
"When did you pack your hospital bag?," the 35-year-old tennis pro asked on Reddit. "[One]​ month before? 6 weeks? 8 weeks? I'm totally stalling. But I have a lot of time still.... I think...Anything you didn't expect to need that I'll really appreciate having in there?"
Williams received a slew of tips from real-life moms, detailing their own experiences: "​[Five] minutes before we went out the door," "Right after I suspected my water had broken" and "by 30 weeks."
People also shared what they packed and things they didn't think they would need.
"Some of my favorite snacks," one user wrote. Another commented, "Your favorite things like lotion and body wash."
"Besides the obvious (phone charger, hair ties) I liked having my own water bottle (klean kanteen)," another user wrote. "I wish I had brought my own towel! The hospital towel was tiny and scratchy and sad. I packed my bags about a month before and definitely over-packed but I didn't mind it too much. Good luck!!"
Williams is expecting her first child with fiancé and Reddit co-founder, Alexis Ohanian. Last month, the Olympic gold medalist also shared a video of herself doing a cartwheel, writing, "Since getting pregnant, I really do miss doing cartwheels."
The tennis star is getting ready for the arrival of her little one. Last week, she celebrated her baby shower with an adorable '50s​-themed party in West Palm Beach, Florida. Among the guests were Williams' sister, Venus, Ciara, Kelly Rowland and Eva Longoria.
Take a look at the star-studded party in the video below.
The 'Praying' singer's fashion sense has always been bold, but she's transformed into a bright butterfly reflective of her new album title, 'Rainbow.' Click through the gallery to see her latest bold choices.
Anna Paquin is having an absolute field day ​over an accidental NSFW boob slip.
BBC News accidentally sh​owed footage of the True Blood star's breasts ​(​from a topless scene on the​ HBO show) ​on live television -- something that was caught on a computer screen in the background​,​ thanks to some seriously eagle-eyed viewers​. Word ​got out to the 35-year-old actress​ and she found the whole situation hilarious.
EXCLUSIVE: Could Anna Paquin's Rogue Show Up on Husband Stephen Moyer's 'The Gifted' X-Men Show?
​"​Now that I know what u guys were talking about this some of the funniest s**t I've seen in a while!!! Thanks for the giggle! #FreeTheNipple," Paquin tweeted, going on​ ​to retweet and respond to fans getting in on the fun, at one point sharing the hashtag, "PhotoBoobed."
"MY BREASTS!! SO FUNNY ON SO MANY LEVELS," ​she tweeted (the subtweet thread between Paquin, her husband Stephen Moyer, and ​True Blood co-star ​Robert Kazinsky‏ is absolutely worth the read).
Paquin ​tweeted at a fan commending her sense of humor​, "It's objectively funny!​," and​ also made light of the reports that the British news channel was "looking into the matter."
"What's there to look into? My t**s photobombed the news because someone was watching #trueblood in view of camera😜," ​she gleefully responded.
Paquin's True Blood co-star Evan Rachel Wood even got in on the fun, tweeting, "I really wish the word accidentally was in quotation marks. This is great. 😂."
Obviously, True Blood alums have a true sense of comedy!
Meanwhile, Paquin's husband recently gushed to ET about the couple's adorable 5-year-old twins, Poppy and Charlie.
Watch the video below for more.
FKA Twigs doesn't seem too concerned about Robert Pattinson's non-committal comment about their relationship.
The 29-year-old singer was photographed hanging out with model Brieuc Breitenstein in Ibiza on Wednesday.
Twigs, whose real name is Tahliah Debrett Barnett, sports a cute crop top, Calvin Klein undies and baggy jeans in photos obtained by The Daily Mail. Breitenstein, wearing black sweats and a blue baseball cap, stays close by Twigs' side, even nuzzling her hair at one point. 
Fans started to question Twigs and Pattinson's relationship status after the Twilight star told Howard Stern that he and Twigs are "kind of" engaged following his 2015 proposal. The two started dating in 2014. 
Pattinson has since been spotted with Katy Perry​,​ though an eyewitness told ET that he and the singer "never showed any PDA" during their restaurant outing earlier this month. 
See more in the video below.
Kristoff St. John and his ex-wife, Mia, are still mourning the tragic loss of their son, Julian.
It's been nearly three years since Julian was found dead at age 24 in his room at a mental health care facility in Long Beach, California, after suffering from schizophrenia for years. His death was reported as suicide.
Shortly after, Kristoff and Mia filed a wrongful death lawsuit against the La Casa Psychiatric Health Facility, alleging that nurses and staff members regularly skipped mandatory check-ins and observations of Julian, who was supposed to be on suicide watch and checked on every 15 minutes. The St. Johns alleged that on the day that their son died, surveillance footage showed nobody had checked on him for over an hour before they found him with a bag over his head in the bathroom. They claimed nurses and staff doctored documents to cover up the neglect. The facility denied all allegations at the time.
The lawsuit was settled out of court last month and all funds were used to set up a foundation in Julian's name to raise mental health awareness. Now, Kristoff and Mia are opening up to ET.
"I'm still angry," Kristoff tells ET's Kevin Frazier, when asked what it was like watching the footage that captured Julian's final moments in the facility. "I watched it the first time, I'll never watch it again. It's not something I want to see."
"I watched that video and I saw my son talking to me on the phone and he hung up the payphone and he went into his room and they didn't check on him," Mia notes. "Time went by and I couldn't help but think my son was dying at that moment."
Kristoff continued on, saying he believes the corporation will "do business differently now."
"Well, we know that they have already taken out the plastic bags and a lot of mental health facilities have taken over that policy since my son's death," Mia added. "I will fight for the rest of my life until something is done. Because there are other kids that are left in these facilities that have no voice and no one to speak out for them."
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
The St. Johns also spoke to ET back in 2015, where they revealed what it was like receiving that tragic call from the mental health hospital.
"That call was the worst call I've ever had in my life," Kristoff said. "I knew that Julian had died."
Kristoff noted that he sees the opportunities to speak with ET as a way for himself and Mia to discuss their commitment to advocating for reform of mental health facilities and their parent companies.
"We do not want to lose any more mentally ill patients who are not receiving the proper care from their caregivers," they explained.
If you or someone you know needs help, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
Daphne Oz is saying farewell to The Chew.
The 31-year-old co-host announced on Friday that she's leaving the ABC cooking talk show after being part of the program for six years.
"It has been an incredible 6 seasons with the @abcthechew crew, and I am honored to always be a part of this wild family of 5! thank you for being the BEST audience, and for spending your lunch time with me 💋," Oz wrote alongside a snap of her and co-hosts Carla Hall, Mario Batali, Michael Symon and Clinton Kelly.
Oz is the first co-host to exit The Chew since its debut in 2011. According to TVLine, she will depart the show ahead of its season seven premiere on Sept. 5.
Oz is currently pregnant with her third child with husband John Jovanovic. The couple is already parents to 3-year-old daughter Philomena and 1-year-old son Jovan.
Earlier this year, Oz wonderfully responded to internet trolls criticizing her body after she posted a bikini pic while on vacation. See her inspiring response in the video below.
We can't get enough of seeing our favorite casts back together again -- even if it's only for one night.
Water does a body good!
Salma Hayek took to Instagram on Friday to share a sexy snap of herself taking an outdoor shower.
"#water the most beautiful delicious and precious necessity of humans," Hayek captioned a shot of herself enjoying a cool stream with her arms in the air.
The 50-year-old actress recently opened up about staying in shape, revealing that she loves her "curves."
"I will sometimes say, 'I am 50 years old! Why do I have to look good? I already got my guy!'" Hayek, who married François-Henri Pinault in 2009, said in an interview with The Edit. "But then, I don't want to lose the guy, either." 
"I'm not going to lie to you, I would like the curve to go in instead of out in some places, but I love a little curve," she adds of her curvaceous figure. "I love the word 'curvy.' It's artistic. A straight line can be boring."
See more on Hayek in the video below.
98 Degrees has spent years in the spotlight, but do they want their kids following in their footsteps?
ET's Sophie Schillaci caught up with the band in Los Angeles last month, where they opened up about fatherhood and the advice they would give their kids if they ever wanted to pursue a 
career in Hollywood.
EXCLUSIVE: 98 Degrees Tease 'Magical' New Christmas Album 'Let It Snow'
Nick Lachey has already done the reality TV show route, but with three kids, he now says those days are behind him.
"It's one thing to do it when you're just a young person and you're in this business, but when you have a family, your sole job is to kind of look out for your kids," he explained. "I just feel like that's not the place for them to be, on a show that's in their lives and it's just not normal."
"There's nothing normal about that, so as a parent, the responsible thing to do is to definitely steer away from that," he added.
For now, Nick's three young children are just enjoying being kids.
"My daughter, especially, dotes on him and loves him and hugs him, sometimes a little too tight," Nick said of welcoming his third child with wife Vanessa, son Phoenix, last December. "Then Cam is now kind of realizing he is going to have this younger brother, and at some point, he can teach him how to play cars and ride scooters."
"They're both doing really well [with a younger sibling]," he added. "It's a lot of fun to have three in the house."
Nick's brother, Drew, has two kids of his own, and revealed that "unfortunately" they're pretty musically inclined.
"I was hoping for medicine, maybe law," he confessed.
EXCLUSIVE: 98 Degrees Say They're Glad They Weren't Famous During the Social Media Era
"That could still happen," Nick noted. "But my kids are definitely musical and love it. My daughter's like a theater junkie."
Jeff Timmons, who has three kids of his own, said that his daughter, Alyssa, is pursuing a different path in Hollywood.
"My daughter has now transitioned into becoming a model all of a sudden," he shared. "Like, right out of the blue. She was wanting to get in the medical field, like Drew was talking about, and then overnight she decided to become a model and it's tough."
"I mean, having experienced the business, as you know, it's a tough business and you don't want anybody to experience the lower parts of it," Timmons added. "The high highs are great, but the lower parts are really tough, so trying to stand back as an experienced person in the business and watch her do her thing is tough, but also giving her advice, so it's a fine line. I have trouble figuring out where to cross on it."
EXCLUSIVE: Jeff Timmons on His Stunning Daughter’s Fashion Week Debut & 98 Degrees’ Las Vegas Plans!
"Plus, they don't want to listen," Drew chipped in. "Mom and Dad don't know anything, ever, about anything."
"You can try to steer them in another direction, but then they say, 'Well, Dad, you did it,'" Jeff said.
Jeff and the rest of the band definitely did a lot in their day -- and aren't necessarily proud of it! See their style regrets in the video below. 
Whether they were inspired by Angelina Jolie or just love showing a little skin, these celebs stun when putting their foot forward in dresses with thigh-high slits. Click through the gallery to see some of our fave looks.
JAY-Z's "Moonlight" video is officially here!
Fans got a taste of the rapper's Friends-inspired music video starring Tiffany Haddish, Issa Rae and more last week, and now the full video has been released online.
Rae stars as Rachel, Haddish channels as Phoebe, and Lil Rel Howery takes on the part of Joey, while Lakeith Stanfield plays Chandler, Jerrod Carmichael does his best Ross and Tessa Thompson plays Monica. Hannibal Buress makes a cameo appearance as himself.
From the opening sequence to Monica's apartment, the video perfectly parodies Friends -- until Ross appears to question his role, walking off set and into a park. JAY-Z's "Moonlight" starts playing, before audio from the 2017 Oscars Best Picture snafu.
Watch below:
See more on JAY-Z's 4:44 album in the video below.
Eva Longoria and Victoria Beckham are the ultimate besties!
The actress and fashion designer enjoyed a fun girls night at the Ed Sheeran concert in Los Angeles on Thursday night, sharing cute pics and videos from the eventful show.
"Ed Sheeran!!!! And of course 🍷@victoriabeckham #EdSheeran," Longoria wrote alongside a selfie with an adorable Snapchat filter.
The ladies were also accompanied by Beckham's family, as well as friend Ken Paves.
Throughout the night, the former Telenovela star documented their time together on her Instagram Stories, while she and the former Spice Girl enjoyed some wine.
"I like this one because it puts on eyelashes," Longoria says in one clip. "Look how gorgeous you look!"
After the show, Longoria then took a selfie with Sheran backstage. "Best night ever! Thx @teddysphotos for the amazing concert and your even more amazing kindness! #EdSheeran #SummerNights," she captioned the pic.
For another memorable Beckham and Longoria night out, watch the video below.
Check out all the hottest actors, athletes and entertainers who are showing off their abs.
Check out this awesome ink!
Claws is ending its first season with a bang.
On Sunday's finale of the addictive TNT drama, nail salon owner Desna (Niecy Nash) is on the run from Roller (Jack Kesy), the once-presumed dead drug dealer, and her Nail Artisans gang is fearing for the worst. In ET's exclusive sneak peek of the action-packed finale, Desna's motley crew -- Polly (Carrie Preston), Virginia (Karrueche Tran), Ann (Judy Reyes) and Dean (Harold Perrineau) -- race around town to find and rescue Desna.
"There's such a fierce loyalty between all of Desna's divas and the crew will go to the mat for her and for each other, and the thought that she's in peril kicks them all into high gear. Each of them drops everything they're doing and throws all their muscle behind trying to find her and rescue her," Preston tells ET of the finale sneak peek.

"The potential for discovering things about Polly is bottomless because she is such a master of disguises and facades, so you're just peeling one layer after another and discovering something new and interesting underneath -- and that's certainly what attracted me to the role," Preston says, reflecting on her character's season-long arc on the female-led drama. "I always like playing characters who are complicated and flawed and mysterious and unpredictable, and she fits the bill."
For the 50-year-old actress, it was the fourth episode that provided the biggest clue into who Polly is -- underneath her many carefully crafted personas.
"There were a couple of moments this season where we saw the gooey, vulnerable center of Polly and then she completely zipped that back up and [got] back to her curated self," Preston says of the July 2 episode, "Fallout." "We saw her transform into Heather, this completely different person that she used to pretend like she was. When that gets all blown up, she has this moment of reflection on her life and says, 'I don't know if I can do this anymore.' That's when we actually see this totally vulnerable person that Polly is, but she's not going to let that rule her."

"I jumped up and down and said, 'Would I mind? I'm thrilled and I know he would be too!' That's how it happened. We were excited for him to be a part of the history and the mythology of Claws, the way that I was a part of Lost and Person of Interest," Preston says. "It's fun for the fans and it's also great for us because we get to be in the same city together working on the same show, which is a rare occurrence."
Romance could be in the air for Polly. Over the course of the season, a blossoming love connection was made between Polly and Dr. Ken Brickman (Jason Antoon), a pharmacist who sells prescription drugs illegally. With Claws getting a second season order, Preston hopes they'll get to mine that relationship even more.
"The two of us are kind of the spice to the show, so it makes sense that they would want to throw those two spices together and see what kind of meal they can make. I love that," Preston says. "For Polly, she's surprised that she's even entertaining something like this. She's on a mission to better herself and having an illegal prescription doctor in her life is not really part of the master plan. But there's definitely an attraction there that is surprising to them both and a little bit undeniable."
As for what fans can expect from the finale, which is sure to be bonkers, Preston hints viewers are in for a wild ride.
"There are some bigger forces at play that we're going to discover that will set us up for the next season," she teases. "When you're doing a show that is so ballsy and funny and dramatic and crazy as Claws, you want to end on a great big cliffhanger and keep the audience wanting more. I think that's what we're doing with the finale."
Claws wraps its first season on Sunday, Aug. 13 at 9 p.m. ET/PT on TNT.
There's no denying there's something special between Cole Sprouse and Lili Reinhart!
Riverdale star Skeet Ulrich chatted with ET's Deidre Behar at the premiere of Netflx's True and the Rainbow Kingdom in Los Angeles on Thursday, where he dished on his co-stars' "great chemistry."
"Well, I know they spend time together because they're at work all the time together," Ulrich, who plays Sprouse's TV dad, FP Jones, told ET. "But, I'm not surprised. They have great chemistry and they've been at our house with a lot of the Riverdale people and they always enjoy each other's company. So I wish them the best."
So do the on-screen couple have a special connection off-screen?
"It seems like it. It seems like it, yeah," the actor expressed. "You just hear them talking to each other like they've been best friends for 20 years. So it's a good sign."
Sprouse and Reinhart have yet to confirm they're more than friends. Earlier this month on Sprouse's 25th birthday, Reinhart dedicated a sweet message to her on-screen beau.
"To the man who has showed me more beautiful places in this past year than I have ever seen in my whole life. Happy birthday, Cole. Thank you for all of the adventures and here's to many more 🌙," the actress wrote on Instagram.
Meanwhile, Sprouse's most recent Instagram post is a gorgeous photo of the blond beauty.
ET spoke with the Riverdale cast at San Diego Comic-Con last month, where they teased new love interests for their characters.
Find out who's pairing up and who's calling it quits in the video below!
Click through the gallery to see pics of these precious little ones!
Chris Pratt has kept a low profile since his split from wife Anna Faris on Sunday, but that's about to change.
The 38-year-old actor is set to make his first public appearance since he and Faris announced their legal separation at the Teen Choice Awards on Sunday. 
EXCLUSIVE: Patti Stanger Says Chris Pratt and Anna Faris Are Still Living Together After Split Announcement
It's been 13 years since Pratt last attended the awards show -- when he was nominated in 2004 with his Everwood co-star, Gregory Smith.
This year, the actor is up for two surfboards, for Choice Movie-Ship with Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 co-star Zoe Saldana and Choice Sci-Fi Movie Actor for his role as Star-Lord.
Also expected to make an appearance at the Teen Choice Awards is Miley Cyrus, who will be accepting the show's highest honor, the Ultimate Choice Award.
The Teen Choice Awards airs live on Sunday at 5 p.m. ET/ 8 p.m. PT on Fox.
See more on Pratt and Faris' shocking breakup in the video below.
Taylor Swift's bodyguard, Greg Dent, was among those called to the stand on Friday in the legal battle over an alleged incident that occurred over four years ago.The 27-year-old singer alleges that former radio personality David Mueller groped her during a meet-and-greet in Denver, Colorado.
Dent -- who was seen chatting up Swift's brother, Austin, prior to testifying -- seemed to corroborate the testimony Swift confidently gave on Thursday, where she claimed Mueller "grabbed [onto her] a** cheek" while they were taking a photo. She referred to the alleged incident as "horrifying and shocking." Mueller has long denied groping Swift.
Dent claimed that he witnessed Mueller reaching his hand under Swift's skirt when he went to put his arm around her. "I know she wasn't comfortable with it, that's why she moved, pushed her skirt down and moved closer to the woman," Dent said. "I thought it was a violation of her body."
Dent noted that right after Swift was allegedly groped, she immediately told her staffers. Swift was seen nodding in agreement during her bodyguard's testimony, but also rolled her eyes at some of the questions being asked by Mueller's legal team.
MORE: Taylor Swift Takes the Stand in Alleged Groping Trial -- His Hand 'Grabbed Onto My A** Cheek'
In addition to Dent, Mueller's then-girlfriend, Shannon Melcher, and his former radio co-host, Ryan Kliesch, were called to the stand, and both claimed they had never witnessed Mueller inappropriately touching a woman.
Swift did not take the stand during the fourth and final day of testimony. The plaintiff rested his case after Dent, Melcher and Kliesch testified on Friday. The judge then brought in the jury to inform them that the evidentiary portion of the trial had concluded and dismissed them for the day. Closing arguments are set for Monday, after which the jury will deliberate. 
Mueller sued Swift in September 2015 -- two years after the alleged incident -- claiming her accusations that he inappropriately touched her were false, and cost him his $150,000-a-year job as a host at country station KYGO-FM as well as future career opportunities. She countersued him a month later in the amount of $1 for assault and battery.
MORE: Nelly Furtado Supports Taylor Swift, Says She's Had Uncomfortable Encounters With Radio Staff
Here are more details on the trial:

Reporting by Tracie De La Rosa and Sophie Schillaci.
For the first time on camera, Lauren Bushnell is opening up about life after her split from fiancé Ben Higgins.
ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the former Bachelor star at Sole Society's 'Toast Friends and Fall Fashion' event at The Highlight Room atop the Dream Hotel in Hollywood, California, on Thursday, where she told us she's back in Los Angeles working on a new business venture… and herself.
"It's been, honestly, vital. I don't think I would have been able to do it without my friends and also, specifically, my family," Bushnell confessed. "It's always a weird thing to go through and there's not a right way to do it … there's also been nights where I feel very alone, but I think that's good."
"I think that's good to feel things, and I think it's good to go through things by yourself," she added. "I think that's when I've learned the most about myself, so, they've been very vital, but I also think it's been good to spend time with just me."
ET then asked the blond beauty what she ultimately thought went wrong with Higgins.
"I think that's such a hard question and I've spent so much time thinking about that because I want to be able to be like, 'OK, maybe this is what went wrong,'" Bushnell explained. "But in all of the reflecting that I have done, I can't really pinpoint one thing. It's just a hard situation when you meet on TV and you get engaged in such a short amount of time."
"You end up learning more about the other person after the fact," she continued. "You go back to real life and then that's really when you learn about the other person. You learn if you can work together, especially living together. That's a whole other thing. So, I don't know if one thing went wrong. I don't even know if anything went wrong; I think it just came to a point where, obviously you're engaged, so the next step is marriage. When it came to talking about marriage, it didn't feel completely right."
Even though things didn't work out with Higgins, she told ET there's no bad blood.
"I have nothing negative to say about Ben," she exclaimed. "He's such a good person. There's nothing wrong with him at all. He did nothing wrong, I did nothing wrong, it's just more like… sometimes it doesn't work, and the pressure [of getting married] obviously is an added element. But I don't think that's necessarily what caused a breakup."
Moving forward, Bushnell is excited for what lies ahead, both personally and professionally. She says she's currently working on new business ideas.
"I love fashion," she gushed. "I'm obviously passionate about that, but I also am realizing that I miss a certain level of privacy. When you're in the public eye and blogging, or whatever, it's a lot about putting yourself out there. So, I'm trying to figure out how to balance that and also balance a level of privacy and just living my life."
"I'm trying to find something to do. I'm actually working on launching a rosé. I love rosé!" she continued, telling ET it's called Dear Rosé. "Look for it! Not yet, not yet, but we're working on it right now. I think that will be fun, and I was a business major, so it will kind of allow me to sort through the knowledge I learned however many years ago."
Bushnell is currently dating someone new, Devin Antin, whom she says is helping her out with Dear Rosé.
"I'm very protective over [this new relationship], because it's someone that I've known for a while," she explained. "We had a friendship established before I even went on The Bachelor. When you go through a breakup -- for me, at least -- that was the last thing on my mind. I wanted to just take the time to, like, take a deep breath and think back on things that happened and just kind of reset a little bit."
"So, it wasn't necessarily planned, if you will," she added. "It's a friendship, and because of that friendship first, I'm also very protective of it. So, I haven't really shared a lot about it, but I'm very happy."
Being a mother has changed Kim Kardashian West.
With two young children with husband Kanye West, and a third on the way via surrogate, the 36-year-old reality star took to her website on Friday to reflect on the lessons she's learned about motherhood on National Son and Daughter Day.
"I have such unconditional love for my kids," Kim said of 4-year-old North and 1-year-old Saint. "No matter what, I will always love them and support them in anything they choose to do in life. My family was so close growing up; now that I'm a mom, I understand the bond my mom and dad felt with us."
PHOTO: Kim Kardashian Looks Identical to Her 15-Year-Old Self and the Internet Just Can't Handle It
"There can be ups and downs with kids but no matter what, I always learn so much from them," she added. "Being a mom is the most important job I have."
You can see through Kim's social media posts of her kids, how parenthood has made her turn the lens outward much more often.
"My priorities changed when I had kids. It's not about me anymore," she said. "After North was born, I wanted to be there and make memories together that we would share forever. It really makes you realize how precious life is."
"They both give me a whole new perspective and inspire me to be the best version of myself," Kim revealed.
And we've got to say, this new generation of Kardashians has been unrelentingly adorable so far!
Watch the video below to see Saint and Rob Kardashian's daughter, Dream sweetly sing happy birthday to their aunt, Kylie Jenner.
These couples are so in love!
Brooke Shields is heading to Law & Order: SVU!
The 52-year-old actress has nabbed a recurring role on season 19 of the NBC series, ET confirms. The news was first reported by The Hollywood Reporter. 
EXCLUSIVE: 'Law & Order: SVU' Finale First Look! You Don't Want to Mess With Olivia Benson
“I play a very different character from any I have ever played,” Shields said in a statement. “I'm excited to stir the SVU pot a bit.”
Though specific details on her role are being kept under wraps, Shields' character is expected to shake things up for Olivia Benson (Mariska Hargitay).
Also joining SVU's newest season is Philip Winchester, who will join the series full-time midseason, reprising his Chicago Justice role, attorney Peter Stone.
ET caught up with Chris Meloni in April, who revealed whether or not he'd consider returning to the series after his season 12 departure. 
EXCLUSIVE: The Impact and Legacy of ‘Law & Order: SVU’ 400 Episodes Later
"I have always said I would be open to it," he shared. "[The] circumstances have to be right, that is all."
See more in the video below.
Law & Order: SVU returns Wednesday, Sept. 27 at 9 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
Reporting by Philiana Ng.
"Archie got hot!"
And with those three little words, fans were thrust into the wildly seductive world of The CW's Riverdale -- aka the only town on TV where absolutely everyone is ridiculously attractive.
To celebrate the upcoming release of Riverdale: The Complete First Season out on DVD and Blu-ray on Aug. 15, ET has your exclusive sneak peek at the steamiest special feature, "River-Love," highlighting some of the, well, steamiest moments from the series' freshman season.
So which Riverdale romance moments made the cut?
- Betty and Jughead's swoon-worthy first kiss? Check!
- Kevin's late night rendezvous? You betcha.
- Archie and Veronica's seven-minutes-in-heaven smooch? Hell, yes.
- And best of all? No Ms. Grundy in sight!
If you loved all of these steamy scenes, get ready because there's even more headed our way in Rivedale's second season -- including new love interests for some of your favorite Riverdale High hotties and the introduction of new characters like bisexual Archie Comics character Toni Topaz.
"We were so happy with the response that people had to season one," Riverdale showrunner Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa recently marveled to ET. "We gave it our all, and we were so happy that the fans were so passionate and that people so responded to these characters and these actors that everyone loves."
EXCLUSIVE: There's Even More Romance Headed to 'Riverdale' in Season 2 – Get the Scoop!
"The biggest thing that I think I'm most excited about, and that most people will be excited about, is just to have more time with these characters that they love," Aguirre-Sacasa said of season two’s expanded 22-episode order. "We all wanted [22 episodes] and that’s what we were working towards, so we're really excited about it. It's a huge mountain to climb, but we're ready."
Riverdale season two premieres Wednesday, Oct. 11 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on The CW. Season one is available on digital now, and on Blu-Ray and DVD on Tuesday, Aug. 15.
Need more Riverdale in your life? Press play on the video below to laugh along with the cast's biggest bloopers in the season one gag reel!
Nelly Furtado says she can sympathize with Taylor Swift's account of David Mueller allegedly groping her during a meet-and-greet in Denver, Colorado, in June 2013..
Swift is facing off with Mueller in court this week. The "Shake It Off" singer is countersuing the former radio DJ for $1 after he sued her on the grounds that her claim that he groped her has ruined his career and therefore his livelihood. Mueller has long denied that he groped Swift.
A slew of stars have spoken out in support of the 27-year-old singer, including Furtado, who claims that she has faced similar situations. "Been in several meet-in-greets where radio staff attempt to cross lines," she tweeted on Friday. "Love @taylorswift13 for fighting for women's safety in the workplace."
In addition to Furtado, a few members of Swift's squad have taken to social media to react to the court trial as well. "@taylorswift13 is F**KING BRAVE," Jaime King wrote. "ALL deserve justice -- to be heard, honored and respected. No matter race, creed, socioeconomic status, gender."
Lena Dunham was also impressed with Swift after she took the stand to testify on Thursday. "Proud of @taylorswift13 for her fierce and cutting testimony and her refusal to settle for being treated like property," the Girls star wrote. "Her example is powerful."
Even those not in Swift's inner circle have expressed their support of her during the trial. "Hi @taylorswift13, just learned #taylorswifttrial. Thank you for taking a stand. #ivegotyourback," Ashley Judd wrote.
George Takei even referenced one Swift song, "Fearless," in his tweet, writing: "Fearless indeed."
On Thursday, Swift testified for about an hour about what she calls “horrifying” moments when Mueller allegedly grabbed her butt backstage at Denver’s Pepsi Center. “It was a definite grab, [a] very long grab,” she said in court. “It was long enough for me to be completely sure it was intentional.”
Here's more on this story:
Sarah Michelle Gellar is paying tribute to her on-screen dad.
The 40-year-old actress took to Twitter on Friday to honor Robin Williams, three years after his death.
"We miss you everyday, but today especially. #RobinWilliams," Gellar, who played Williams' daughter on CBS' The Crazy Ones, wrote alongside a sweet black-and-white photo of the two.
Billy Crystal also remembered the late actor on social media, writing, "3 years later and words still don't come easily. Think of Robin today and smile."
Williams died on Aug. 11, 2014, at 63 years old. 
See how his daughter, Zelda, coped with his death in the video below. 
Alex Rodriguez's daughters look like they can really pack a punch!
The retired baseball pro brought 12-year-old Natasha and 9-year-old Ella to the opening of his new UFC Gym in his hometown in Miami, Florida, on Thursday. Additionally, A-Rod plans to open a dozen new gyms throughout Miami-Dade County.
ET has learned that Rodriguez's girlfriend, Jennifer Lopez, was not in attendance at the event, as she was out of town working.
“He [Alex] did mention that Jennifer is an incredible athlete, they do a variety of different things when they work out together, and that he can't wait to show her his new UFC GYM location in Miami,” an eyewitness told ET.
Well, it's good to see the former New York Yankee getting some daddy-daughters athletic time!
Meanwhile, Rodriguez recently opened up about what made his relationship with J.Lo work so well.
Watch the video below for more.
JoJo Fletcher and Jordan Rodgers are taking their time before walking down the aisle.
ET's Lauren Zima caught up with the former Bachelorette on Thursday as she, Becca Tilley and Sole Society hosted a Toast Friends and Fall Fashion event at the Dream Hotel's Highlight Room in Hollywood, where she opened up about what her relationship with Rodgers is like one year after their big finale.
"[Our relationship has changed] so much," Fletcher confessed. "I was telling Becca the other day, I feel like I've gotten to the point where it's been a little over a year since our finale, and I look back and our relationship has grown into something so much stronger and more beautiful than I think we even expected to happen. It's just awesome. We get each other, our relationship is good, I'm really happy."
Though the Dallas native admitted that she and Rodgers went through "hard times" adjusting to normal life after her season of The Bachelorette ended, she said they don't feel pressure to prove how happy they are.


"But just last month, we were driving in the car and it kind of popped into my head. I was like, 'Maybe we should start thinking about it now,'" she added. "So, I'm kind of getting the wedding bug a bit, but at the same time, it's not something we're just going to rush into."
In a recent interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Rodgers revealed that he would "rather not" televise their wedding, despite the couple telling ET that they were open to the idea just after their engagement. 
"We've both talked about it, and that is such an intimate day for both of us that you dream about your whole life, and we don't know how a televised wedding would look," Fletcher told ET on Thursday. "If that meant that we wouldn't get to have that day exactly how we would want, then we wouldn't do it on TV, because I would never want to jeopardize that day for anything."
While Rodgers stayed home for Thursday's event, Fletcher spent time with her old Bachelor pals, like Tilley, Amanda Stanton, Ashley Iaconetti and Lauren Bushnell.
"We've got everyone here!" she said. "We're here celebrating the transition to fall fashion. So as you can see, I'm wearing my fall colors, which are my favorite. It's an awesome brand and I love this stuff, and we're just having a good little brunch! Girls brunch."
"It's awesome [to get together]," she added. "I haven't seen a couple of these girls in forever because I don't live here, so it's nice to bring everyone together and just have, you know, a glass of champagne, do a little shopping, hang out, catch up."
Fletcher also got a chance to catch up with Bushnell, who came out to support her and Tilley just three months after ending her engagement to former Bachelor Ben Higgins.
"I was [surprised they broke up]," Fletcher, who made Higgins' final two with Bushnell, confessed. "You always want to see these couples work out, and I know it was kind of a different situation with us, but I have nothing but love and respect for both of them. So, it's sad. I'm sure that both of them are probably going through something."
"We'll all get to hang out with her for a bit," she said.
Fletcher also opened up about Bachelorette Rachel Lindsay's recent finale, offering advice to her and Bryan as they navigate their first few months as a couple in the public eye. See what she had to say in the video below.
Christmas is coming early for fans of 98 Degrees!
The band, which consists of Nick Lachey, Drew Lachey, Justin Jeffre and Jeff Timmons, announced on Friday that they're officially reuniting for an all-new Christmas album titled Let It Snow. And while chatting with ET, the guys opened up about what it was like putting together the record, their first in four years.
Let It Snow is 98 Degrees' second Christmas album. They released their first one, This Christmas, in October 1999.
"That's one of the things that we're most proud of that we've done," Drew explained to ET's Sophie Schillaci. "We loved it, the way it came out. We also feel strongly about these memories that you make when you listen to Christmas songs… we still talk about what we were influenced by, by Christmas now. So, to be a part of a family tradition and something that [our fans] put on every year, that's something -- that's pretty magical."
Nick chimed in, telling ET that their goal was to come up with new songs they hadn't visited before.
"For me, I think my favorite is 'Mary, Did You Know?'" he said. "It's a lot. I mean, there are so many great Christmas songs out there and holiday songs that, thankfully, there were a lot to choose from. We kind of went through the list and picked our favorites."
"One that's a little bit different," added Jeff, "it's called 'Run Rudolph,' which I've never heard of before. It's got, like, an old Motown sound to it, kind of cool. Kind of a throwback to our roots at Motown and the track's pretty amazing, so I'm really excited about that one."
Even more exciting, Nick confirmed that Let It Snow, which will be released via UMe on Oct. 13, will also feature one original track. The band will then embark on their first-ever 31-city Christmas tour beginning Nov. 10 in Larchwood, Iowa.
"We're going to do the hits as well, but it's going to be a Christmas tour," Justin explained. "We're going to do some songs from the latest CD and, yeah, we're looking forward to it. We toured last summer and had a blast and I think we have a lot more fun these days than we did back then [20 years ago]. Maybe it's because we're just more experienced and there's less pressure, but the fans are still there."
"We built the schedule so that we'd be out for four or five days, then we'd all have a couple days off so we have the opportunity to go home," added Drew, who shares two kids, son Hudson and daughter Isabella, with his wife, Lea Dellecave. "Having your whole family on the road, it's tough for everybody. It's tough for them, it's tough for us."
As we patiently wait for the album to drop, watch the video below to hear more from our exclusive chat with the guys!
It's T-shirt time again!
Jersey Shore stars Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi, Jenni "JWoww" Farley, Paul "Pauly D" DelVecchio, Mike "The Situation" Sorrentino and Sammi "Sweetheart" Giancola are reuniting on the small screen come Aug. 20, and they're ready to fist pump like it's 2009. After saying goodbye to the beach house they shared five years ago, the rambunctious crew are together once again on E!'s Reunion Road Trip: Return to the Jersey Shore.
The special will have the friends -- and sometimes frenemies -- rehashing what went on in the house that viewers didn't see as well as updating each other on their current relationships. If Reunion Road Trip is anything like what Snooki posted to Instagram Friday, Jersey Shore fans will not be disappointed.
All in a car together, the reality stars are seen jamming out to LMFAO's song, "Get Crazy," which of course was the theme song of their MTV reality series. "ITS HAPPENING GUYS! Aug. 20 on E! with my Best Friends!" Snooki captioned the video. "Love my roomies forever ❤️❤️❤️❤️ #JERZDAYISHERE"
PHOTO: Rita Ora Looks Like a Missing Jersey Shore Cast Member in Leopard Print Onesie
In a first look at Reunion Road Trip, Pauly D makes sure to drop all the Jersey Shore catchphrases, including "T-shirt time," "GTL," and "Cabs are here!"
Back in July, The Situation confirmed to ET that he would in fact be reuniting with his castmates. “There definitely is a reunion-style situation coming,” he dished. “I mean, 100%. Everyone is just so excited to be working together again.”
EXCLUSIVE: Jenni 'JWoww' Farley Slams Online Bullies, Talks Plastic Surgery -- 'I Do Not Want a Saggy Face'
Karl Cook has earned the approval of Kaley Cuoco's longtime friend and 8 Simple Rules co-star, Amy Davidson.
ET's Deidre Behar spoke with the 37-year-old actress at the premiere of Netflix's True and the Rainbow Kingdom about what she really thinks of the 26-year-old professional equestrian.
EXCLUSIVE: Kaley Cuoco on Having 'Baby Fever' and Why Her Girlfriends Are So Important
"Karl is great. He's exactly who you see," Davidson said of Cuoco's boyfriend. "He loves cooking and he's gentle and he's a kind person. I'm really happy because she deserves to be treated well."
As for whether Davidson thinks Cook is "the one" for her friend, she responded, "I hope so. I do, yeah."
Davidson further explained why she thinks their relationship works. "I think the fact that they have something outside of the industry that brings them together -- the fact that he's an equestrian and she's an equestrian," she noted. "She's such an animal lover, advocate. That brings them even closer together."
"They make sense. I'm so happy for her," Davidson continued. "I told her, I'm like, 'You deserve the world.' We can't settle, especially when it comes to love. It's so important."
Davidson also gushed to ET over how much Cuoco meant to her as a friend. "Kaley has been such a support system over the years for everybody. She is a sister," she shared. "I don't have a sister, so we've always said, 'sisters.' You go through something so tragic that nothing can break that bond. She's a powerhouse. I'm so proud of her."
PHOTO: Kaley Cuoco and Boyfriend Karl Cook Welcome a New Addition -- a Mini-Horse Named Shmooshy!
True and the Rainbow Kingdom -- the new children's series executive produced by Pharrell Williams -- is currently streaming on Netflix.
Back in December, Cuoco also had nothing but great things to say about her guy, telling ET, "He's so cute! [Why him?] Because he's perfect!"
Check out more of our exclusive interview with the 31-year-old Big Bang Theory star:







As the season three finale of Freeform’s Stitchers quickly approaches, fans can be sure of one thing: they will get answers.
“It gives us the answers we have been wanting,” Kyle Harris, who plays Cameron, tells ET about the impending finale.
The series follows a government agency where people can “stitch” into the memories of individuals recently killed to investigate their unsolved murders.
“This season finale is a culmination of all the mythology that we have been watching throughout these first three seasons,” Harris explains. “Everything that has to do with the purpose of the program, who picks the stitch cases, what is going on with Kirsten’s parents, all of that comes to a head.”
EXCLUSIVE: The Cast of ‘Stitchers’ Talks Season 3 Romances And The Real Life Murders They Would Solve
In the episode, titled “Maternis,” Kirsten (Emma Ishta) must perform the most important stitch of her life with the help of an unlikely source, her father (guest star C. Thomas Howell).
In the promo, it appears the team will attempt to stitch into Kirsten’s mother. There is just one problem: she’s still alive.
“This is the stitch of all stitches,” Harris teases. “We are going into somewhat uncharted territory.”
While getting answers to fans’ burning questions is enticing, the question on everyone’s mind is, will Kirsten and Cameron get their happy ending?
The couple, dubbed #Camsten by loyal followers, finally took things to the next level when they started dating this season after years of will-they, won’t-they angst. However, things weren’t picture perfect from there, as it was soon discovered that the more physically intimate the characters got with one another, the more Kirsten’s ability to stitch became impaired. Typical work place conflict, right?
Thankfully, at the end of last week’s episode, best pal Linus (Ritesh Rajan) created a working oxytocin filter that allows the couple to finally get physical. And they wasted no time, ending the episode with a steamy no holds barred hookup session.
So, it seems Kirsten and Cameron will actually be happy for now.
“For a moment,” Harris confesses. “You kind of find out early in the finale episode that they are not out of the woods just yet.”
“The oxytocin filter is not fool proof and we are left with some complications from that,” he adds.
EXCLUSIVE: Things Get Complicated For Camsten’s Relationship In ‘Stitchers’ Sneak Peek
If nothing else, Harris’ own personal love life is thriving in the midst of his television character’s turmoil.
The actor recently got engaged to longtime girlfriend Stefanie Brown. “It was pretty magical,” Harris says of the proposal. “It was 12 years in the making, so I think it lived up to the time waited.”
Ishta, who has been married since 2012, welcomed her son, Torin, last June after wrapping the show’s second season.
If only Cameron and Kirsten could take some love advice from their real-life counterparts!
EXCLUSIVE: Zelda Williams Gets Her Flirt On In ‘Stitchers’ Sneak Peek
With the series’ fate still undetermined (a season four pickup has yet to be announced), fans can expect some closure in the finale.
“It is 100% the heart-wrenching moment you think could be the end,” Harris says before dropping one major tease for the finale: “Then you see the final scene and you are screaming at your TV as to what this all means." 
“There’s a big giant cliffhanger twist at the end that leaves us asking even more questions that would propel us into what I think would be the best season yet,” he adds.
EXCLUSIVE: ‘Stitchers’ Actress Salli Richardson-Whitfield on the Pressures of Directing For Oprah
“If this were to be a series finale, you would have some very angry teenage girls,” Harris says. "The twist is so poignant, the cast was tipping their hats to our showrunner for this one. None of us saw this one coming and we’re all very excited to see where it goes.”
Just where would Harris like to see the series go?
“I would love to see the stitchers program go public, so you can play the fun of them being a little bit of celebrities,” he muses. “I would also love the consequences of could it possibly fall into the wrong hands and what that means if it does.”
Sounds interesting enough! All that’s needed is a season four pickup. Freeform, what are you waiting for?
The season three finale of Stitchers airs this Monday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on Freeform.
Could Chrissy Teigen and John Legend be any more perfect for each other?
All eyes were on the adorable duo when they stepped out in Los Angeles on Thursday night for the launch dinner of Teigen's new Intermix x A.L.C. "on duty" collaboration. Not only did they look so in love, but they turned up the cuteness factor by wearing coordinating ensembles.
Teigen, 31, and Legend, 38, both dressed to impress in shades of black, white, tan and army green. The brunette beauty paired her tie-waist blouse with high-waisted, zip-up up skinnies and ankle-strap heels, while her husband kept cool in distressed jeans and a patterned bomber jacket over a black T-shirt.
While snapping photos at the event, the two couldn't help themselves from smiling and laughing at one another, which is even more proof of why they've become one of Hollywood's favorite power couples.
Back in June, Teigen opened up to Marie Claire about life at home with Legend and their 1-year-old daughter, Luna.
Hear more (and see the pics from her cover shoot!) in the video below.
Breaking Bad wasn’t the first time Bryan Cranston had been caught with his pants down! The 61-year-old actor recounted on Thursday’s Conan a particularly embarrassing experience that he and his wife, Robin, had while on their honeymoon. 
MORE: Bryan Cranston Fulfills His Lifelong Dream of Being a Power Ranger, Shows Off His Moves: Watch!
“My beautiful wife Robin and I, who celebrated our 28th anniversary recently --admittedly a cheap applause line -- we were in Europe for our honeymoon and one of the parts of the trip was to go from Switzerland to Italy, and they said, 'Take the train,'” Cranston recalled. “The travel agent said, ‘By the way, the third tunnel is 50 minutes long. It’s traditional for honeymooners to take advantage of that time.’”
 “I said, ‘Are you ready to burn seven calories?’” Cranston quipped, noting that his wife wasn’t as enthusiastic about the prospect.
Serena Williams is very pregnant and on the move.
On Thursday night, the 35-year-old tennis pro showed up to see Mariah Carey perform in Fort Lauderdale, Florida, and greeted the singer backstage, along with her 6-year-old twins, Monroe and Moroccan.
"With the beautiful @serenawilliams backstage tonight," Carey captioned a pic of herself and her kids posing with Williams.
Carey opened for Lionel Richie at the concert, and Williams -- who went to the show with her mother, Oracene Price -- was sure to Snapchat her love for their performances. The mom-to-be thoroughly enjoyed seeing the 47-year-old diva crooning "We Belong Together," and had an all-out singalong when Richie hit the stage.
After the show, Carey and her adorable kids indulged in some sweets at the concert after-party at Miami Beach's Sugar Factory American Brasserie. Roc was all about that cotton candy, and we don't blame him!
MORE: Serena Williams on the ‘Scariest Thing’ About Becoming a Mom and How Giving Birth Will Make Her a 'Real Woman’
Williams has been keeping busy in lead-up to the birth of her first child with fiance Alexis Ohanian. Last week, her friends threw her a '50s-themed baby shower, and they got all dressed up for the occasion.
Check out the epic themed soiree:
This trailer for The Show, debuting on ET, is not for the faint of heart -- and if the preview alone requires a trigger warning, we cannot imagine how disturbing the full movie will be. The Show's rating should be indicative: R for "disturbing and violent content involving suicides, language throughout, and brief drug use."
Josh Duhamel plays Adam Rogers, a Chris Harrison-like host of a dating show that ends in an attempted shooting -- which is traumatic enough, until the network exec (played by X-Men actress Famke Janssen) decides to create an entire reality show about contestants killing themselves.
EXCLUSIVE: Josh Duhamel on Letting Son See 'Transformers': 'I'll Deal With the Post Traumatic Stress After'
The Show looks like The Bachelor meets UnReal meets one of those Saw movies. It is directed by and co-stars Giancarlo Esposito (who you'll recognize from Breaking Bad and Better Call Saul) and also features James Franco as a morning show host reporting on the on goings of the live death cast.
Here is the movie's official synopsis:
"After a dating show ends in violence, its host Adam Rogers (Duhamel) and a ratings-hungry network exec launch a terrifying new program that promises fresh kills every week. The tension mounts as a kindhearted janitor joins the deadly program, hoping to help his struggling family survive…at any cost."
The Show arrives in theaters and is available on demand on Sept. 15.
Kate Beckinsale is an open book! The 44-year-old actress played “Plead the Fifth” on Thursday night’s Watch What Happens Live With Andy Cohen and answered two and a half out of the three questions. First, host Cohen asked Beckinsale to play “Marry, Shag, Kill” with her Pearl Harbor co-stars, Ben Affleck and Josh Hartnett, as well as her Total Recall co-star, Colin Farrell.
MORE: Kate Beckinsale Gets Candid on Body Image and Co-Parenting With Ex Michael Sheen on 'Chelsea'
“That’s quite hard!” she exclaimed. “I’d probably have to shag Colin because I’ve sort of semi-done it onscreen so I feel like it would count. I’d marry Ben, and I’d kill Josh.”
When the audience gasped at her quick response, Beckinsale looked surprised, saying, “Shocking answer!” Cohen then asked if the rumors were true that she and her Vacancy co-star, Luke Wilson, had some tension because he was allegedly “hungover, late to set, and rude" to her.
“He wasn’t rude to me,” she said, not acknowledging the other accusations. “No, we got on fine. We got on, OK. It was a very intense movie. We were in a very difficult place in our marriage, those characters.”
Finally, Cohen asked about Beckinsale’s previous admission that she had peed in a director’s thermos after the unnamed man had forced her to do a nude scene she didn’t want to do. 
MORE: Kate Beckinsale Jokes About Her 'Human Centipede' Family Connection With Jimmy Kimmel
“It was a gay hairdresser’s idea,” she declared, not giving up the director’s name. 
For more from Beckinsale, watch the clip below!
Kesha has a lot to celebrate these days! On Thursday, her first album in nearly five years, Rainbow, was released and to celebrate, the 30-year-old singer visited The Tonight Show. 
MORE: Kesha Fights Back Tears Talking About New 'Rainbow' Album: It 'Literally Saved My Life'
While there, Kesha belted out her new single, “Praying,” for the audience, wearing a feather-covered dress and aqua-colored locks.
She also took part in a fun game of “Password,” teaming up with host Jimmy Fallon to compete with Anthony Anderson and Terry Gross. 
But the biggest news of the night came when Kesha checked the iTunes charts. Posting a screenshot of Rainbow at no. 1, she thanked her fans for their support.
MORE: Kesha Pens Emotional Note to Her 18-Year-Old Self: 'There Is Light and Beauty After the Storm' 
“OH MY F**KING GOD ANIMALS I CANT IM CRYING WTF,” she wrote. 
For more from Kesha, watch the clip below!
She also received lots of tasty treats, which she fed to her close family as they visited her to sing “Happy Birthday” and watch her blow out her candles. Kylie’s momager, Kris Jenner, grandmother, Mary Jo, sisters Khloe and Kim Kardashian and Kendall Jenner, niece Dream, and nephew Saint, were all visible in the Snapchat video as the large group cheered for her.
But the day wasn’t just about Kylie. She taped a special announcement with her longtime friend, Harry Hudson, about her work with Teen Cancer America. 
“Today is my birthday, but it is also the day that a portion of the proceeds from KylieCosmetics.com are all going to Teen Cancer America,” Jenner said.
“Kylie was right there by my side during all of my chemo treatments and together we are spreading awareness through her product today on her birthday,” Hudson said. 
Later that evening, Kylie and her boyfriend, Travis Scott, were spotted attending a film screening of Halle Berry’s Kidnap along with pal, Jordyn Woods, sister Khloe and her boyfriend, Tristan Thompson.
MORE: Kylie Jenner Celebrates 20th Birthday in Lace Lingerie and Pink Wig 
Kylie also posted some sexy photos of herself in a pink wig and lingerie, posing on top of a motorcycle. These followed some other racy pics of the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star in a sheer yellow bra and undies.
For more from the birthday girl, watch the clip below!
Dunham and Swift, 27, have been close for a while with Swift collaborating with Dunham’s boyfriend, Jack Antonoff, on her most recent album, 1989. On Thursday afternoon, Swift had taken the stand in the court case, and answered a line of questioning surrounding the alleged groping she experienced during a meet-and-greet in Denver, Colorado, in June 2013.
Swift noted that the only way someone would have been able to see the incident was if they were "lying directly under my skirt and we didn't have anyone positioned there,” which elicited laughs from the courtroom.
JoJo also thinks it’s important not to let the negativity seep into the couple’s relationship. “You're going to be so overwhelmed by so much love and so much support because the Bachelor Nation fan base," she noted. "But you're always going to have the negative opinions and the hurtful comments." 

JoJo added, “I think if you just focus on your relationship, not let it get to you -- it's going to get to you but not let it get to you to the point to where you start taking it out on each other -- and if you're able to get through that, then I think your relationship proves itself.”
The former reality star admitted that Rachel’s intense finale earlier this week kept her on the edge of her seat. 
“I watched the finale, and I think I was just as drawn and shocked as everyone else and just into it. The breakup with Peter was super intense but in the finale she looked super beautiful and so happy so I'm happy for them,” she said. 
She added that Peter’s behavior in the finale made him worthy of being the next Bachelor. 
“I think people are really excited for Peter,” JoJo said. “I think that he handled himself very well, very gracefully and respectfully, so I hope that if he's wanting to do it and he's offered that, that people would be excited for him.”
Million Dollar Listing: New York star Fredrik Eklund is going to be a dad!

“We've been blessed two times over - we're six months pregnant with twins, a boy and a girl!” he wrote on Instagram, alongside a cute photo of him and Derek kissing.
“It was important for us to take the time to keep the news for ourselves, but now we are ready to celebrate all the love,” he continued. “We thank you for supporting us in this journey and your well wishes.... We are finally going to be dads! Finally! #grateful.” 
Fans of the hit Bravo show got to see the exact moment when Eklund received the joyous news from his husband during the show’s season finale on Thursday. The episode was taped back in April, while the two celebrated Eklund’s birthday in France.

On Thursday, the couple was showered with congratulatory messages from loyal fans. “Wonderful things happen to truly wonderful people...we who love you have witnessed how much you wanted this beautiful dream to come true,” wrote one fan. “Your children are going to be so blessed with the 2 best dads,” expressed another.
For more on Million Dollar Listing, watch the video below.
After Chloe Moretz recently revealed that she had a childhood crush on Aaron Carter,  the 29-year-old singer took to social media to share his feelings for her as well.
Carter apparently heard about Moretz's comments and decided to reach out to the actress via Twitter on Wednesday to ask her out on a date.
"Mmmm may I take you to dinner @ChloeGMoretz?" Carter tweeted, along with an article reporting on her remarks. He followed it up with a second message minutes later, asking again: "Hey @ChloeGMoretz - let's set up a date. The crush is mutual." Moretz has yet to respond.
In a recent interview with Variety, Moretz opened up about her childhood infatuation with the singer, sharing, "When I was 4-years-old I thought Aaron Carter was so cool… And then my friend, when we were both little babies back in Georgia, she liked Aaron Carter, too. We used to fight about who would date Aaron Carter one day."
"Who knows? Maybe we’ll meet," she added.
Carter is newly single after he and longtime girlfriend Madison Parker split up on Sunday. Check out the video below to hear more about their split.
Carrie Underwood is a superhero mom!
The 34-year-old country singer took to Instagram on Thursday night to share a handful of snaps from her superhero-themed pajama party she had with her husband, Mike Fisher, and 2-year-old son, Isaiah.
"Just a typical Thursday night at the Fisher house...featuring Catboy, Gekko and Owlette! It's time to be a hero! #PJMasks," Underwood captioned her Instagram slideshow, which featured little Isaiah in a black onesie, a blue cape and mask. The singer also showed off her red cape and mask and Fisher's green crime-fighting look.
Earlier this year, ET spoke with the "Church Bells" singer about possibly expanding her family.
"We're on God's good timing or whatever you might call it," Underwood told ET. "I'm just trying to figure out where life's going to take me next."
Watch below for more of Underwood's adorable mother-son moments.
Saturday Night Live's special primetime edition of Weekend Update Summer Edition kicked off Thursday night with  a special visit from SNL alum Bill Hader, playing the recently-ousted White House Communications Director Anthony Scaramucci.
Facetiming into the show, Hader's Scaramucci said he's totally content about the way he behaved during his run as communications director before getting fired by President Donald Trump less than two weeks after getting the job.
"The Mooch has no regrets, baby!," Hader as Scaramucci declared. "All I did was sell my company, miss the birth of my child and ruin my entire reputation, all to be king of Idiot Mountain for 11 days."
Reflecting on his ironic popularity in the media, Hader said, "Everybody loves the Mooch. I’m like human cocaine. You got a little bump of me, I made you feel excited, but I was out of your system too quick. And now that I'm gone, you're all depressed and edgy and you’re trying to figure out how to score some more Scaramouch!"
MORE: Amazing 'SNL' Fake Movie Trailers You Need To Watch Right Now!
Hader also lampooned Scaramucci's vulgar New Yorker interview, claiming that the reporter, Ryan Lizza, had misquoted him regarding his infamous comments about White House Chief Strategist Steve Bannon.
"I guess people didn't like it when I said that -- and let me see if I can clean this up for primetime -- that Steve Bannon was trying to 'S his own C.' And by-the-by, I was completely misquoted. I didn't say that Bannon tried to 'S his own C,' he did it!" Hader as Scaramucci claimed. "He made contact! I saw it!"
Hader, who left Saturday Night Live at the end of Season 38 in 2013, is the latest guest star hired by SNL to lampoon the Trump administration following Alec Baldwin's acclaimed portrayal of Trump for most of last season, as well as Melissa McCarthy's lauded impression of former White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer. Check out the video below for a look at McCarthy's celebrated performance.
Weekend Update Summer Edition airs Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
Justin Baldoni is head-over-heels for his wife, Emily.
The Jane the Virgin star took to Instagram on Thursday to share how much he appreciates his lovely lady, who is pregnant with their second child, a boy, and promises to be more present in her last 10 weeks of pregnancy.
"I still can't believe how fast this pregnancy has flown by," the 33-year-old actor wrote alongside a pic of his wife showing off her growing baby bump in a bathing suit. "I often struggle with guilt around how busy these last seven months have been and how I have shown up for Emily and the little guy on this journey compared to her first pregnancy. With Maiya I was sooo present and aware of every little thing. But this time around it's been a bit harder, and in many ways Emily has been on her own (and doing amazing)."
"Hoping to let go of that guilt and really show up these next ten weeks," he continued. "It goes by so fast and this process is such a miracle. Men - take it from me....show up for your partners. If you fail (which inevitably you will) just listen and take it in. Ask how you can be better and then actually do something. Don't just talk about it...do it. So much of the way we think about masculinity is about taking action- but we forget the most important action is showing up and taking steps to improve and become humans. And if we are better humans...we will become better men. #30weekspregnant #10weekstogo #redefinemasculinity #husband #bepresent."
The day before, Baldoni also shared an adorable pic of the two snuggling up and laughing. "I LOVE little moments of gold like this," he captioned the snap. "Our hats blocked our kiss but instead gave us this way better picture."
Meanwhile, Emily also dedicated some sweet words to her husband, writing on Instagram on Wednesday, "Wouldn't want to leave footprints with anybody else 💜."
The couple -- who already are parents to 2-year-old daughter Maiya Grace -- announced they were expecting their second child in May. On month later, they revealed in an adorable video that they were going to have a son.
For more on the proud parents, watch the video below.
Fifth Harmony turns up the heat with their latest single, "Angel."
The quartet dropped a second track from their forthcoming self-titled album on Thursday.
"Who said I was an angel? Oh, yeah/ When you look at me, what do you see?/ Open your eyes, I'm more brilliant than you'll ever be," 5H boldly chant.
"Angel" is produced by Skrillex and Poo Bear and is their follow-up to their first single, "Down" featuring Gucci Mane.
Fifth Harmony's third studio album -- and first without Camila Cabello -- will be released on Aug. 25. Last month, ET caught up with the singers in Los Angeles, where they dished on what to expect from their upcoming LP.
"I think maybe, the most genuine sound we’ve ever had," Lauren Jauregui told ET. "Like, authentic."
Meanwhile, Dinah Jane added that the source material for the upcoming album was "love, things that we go through."
See more of what the ladies had to say in the video below.
While secrecy is incredibly important on the set of the new Han Solo Star Wars movie, director Ron Howard is still sharing some on-set pics to give fans a tiny glimpse at the long-awaited project.
Taking to twitter on Thursday, Howard shared a short video showing the crew getting ready for a crane shot, and gave a glimpse at a massive green-screen curtain surrounding the perimeter of set -- showing how the film will blend CGI with on-location filming.
"Rehearsing a crane shot as we wait for sundown," the two-time Oscar winner captioned the short clip.
Later, Howard posted a fascinatingly cryptic video of what appears to be the shouldering wreckage of a damaged speeder lying in an abandoned junkyard.
"Where old Speeders go to die," Howard hinted in the caption.
While it might not give away much, it's a much more substantive look at the production than the 63-year-old filmmaker has given fans thus far.
Since taking over the production from directing duo Chris Miller and Phil Lord, Howard has tantalized fans with somewhat banal behind-the-scenes shots that don't give any real hints as to the plot.
Recently, ET caught up with Woody Harrelson who stars in the upcoming Young Han Solo project, and he opened up about how filming has been under new leadership.
"Fortunately, the force is still very much with us," Harrelson shared. "It's great that Ron came along when he did."
The Glass Castle actor also dished on co-star Alden Ehrenreich, who plays the iconic space smuggler, praising him as a "great actor and a great guy, [with a] great sense of humor." Check out the video below to hear more from Harrelson about why this upcoming sci-fi epic might be "one of the funnier Star Wars movies" thus far.
The long-awaited Han Solo Star Wars story is scheduled for release in May 2018.
Happy birthday, Antonio Banderas!
The actor turned 57 years old on Thursday, and celebrated with a sweet throwback pic from one of his first birthdays.
"So grateful for your birthday wishes and kind gestures. The real gift is to have you close. Thanks!," Banderas wrote alongside the shot. " Photo of my birthday more than half a century ago!!!!"
Banderas' ex-wife, Melanie Griffith, celebrated her 60th birthday on Wednesday. See how she rang in another decade in the video below. 
Just a little brotherly love!
Liam Hemsworth had the best birthday post ever to celebrate his big brother, Chris Hemsworth, who turns 34 on Aug. 11.
"Happy birthday Chrisso! Love u ya massive jerk ;) xox @chrishemsworth #bathtime #rubberducky," Liam wrote on Thursday, alongside a hilarious pic of Chris shirtless in a pool, with what looks like a small towel on his head and a rubber duck.
Chris' Avengers co-star, Jeremy Renner, commented on the snap, writing,"Bday bubbles for ol Hemi…. Cheers my man!!!"
ET caught up with the Thor: Ragnarok star during San Diego Comic-Con last month, where he and Mark Ruffalo opened up about filming the latest installment and their favorite way to get some sleep.
See what they had to say in the video below.
Kylie Jenner is ringing in her 20th birthday with a brand new look!
The reality star took to Instagram on Thursday to share a sexy snap of herself posing in lace lingerie and a pink wig.
"20 ⭐️," Jenner captioned the pic.
The Life of Kylie star celebrated the end of her teenage years with a surprise party thrown by her famous family and friends. 
See pics from the soiree -- including Jenner's hilarious cake and ice sculpture of her booty -- in the video below.
If you're a Friends superfan, there's a new book dedicated to exploring the history and legacy of the beloved sitcom.
I'll Be There for You, penned by Kelsey Miller, was recently acquired by Harlequin imprint Hanover Square Press, and will be coming out in time for the sitcom's 25th anniversary in 2019.
Friends, which debuted on NBC in 1994, ended up running for 10 seasons and 236 episodes and was one of the most successful shows at the time, and it's series finale in May 2006 had some of the highest viewership numbers of all time for a scripted show, behind only M*A*S*H, Cheers and Seinfeld.
To this day the show thrives among millennials, reportedly snagging over 16 million viewers a week in reruns across multiple broadcast platforms. The upcoming tome will examine the show's enduring popularity -- as well as some behind-the-scenes looks at how the series came to exist.
The book -- which will also serve as a definitive compendium of Friends facts and tidbits -- will also look back at the litany of guest stars and the way Friends influenced pop culture (including the impact of Jennifer Aniston's iconic haircut known forever as "The Rachel.")
For more on the celebrated comedy series, check out the video below.
We can't get enough of the Pearson family both on-screen and off!
Vanessa Simmons is taking on motherhood with style.
The 34-year-old fashionista, who recently launched the clothing line Bad Butterfly, dished to ET about her 3-year-old daughter Ava, with boyfriend Mike Wayans, and why they’re not ready to expand the family anytime soon.
"Dealing with a 3 year old is very challenging, but I think eventually yes [we will have more kids] after Mike and I tie the knot," the Growing Up Hip Hop star shared with ET’s Courtney Tezeno on Tuesday.
Although Wayans, 32, hasn't popped the question, the lovebirds have talked about getting engaged. And when it comes to successfully parenting, Simmons stressed how important it is to communicate with each other.
"That's the biggest thing. Just making sure we're on the same page and communication," she said. "Especially with a 3-year-old. Organization is key."
In season three of GUHH, fans will see another aspect of her family life as she muddles through a rough patch with her younger sister, Angela. The once inseparable siblings grew emotionally "distant" after Angela gave birth to her nearly 1-year-old son, Sutton, but Vanessa now admits to being "overly sensitive" about the situation.
"We're in a great space," she said of her current relationship with Angela. "I think a few months ago [when we were filming the show] she was settling in to becoming a mom and trying to get back into work. I know from experience with my daughter that it can get hard, but I was just being a big sister and being like 'hey don't forget about me over here.' I need my sister, so that’s what that was. I think I was being a little overly sensitive."
She also couldn't stop gushing about Sutton, and her niece, Mia, who is the daughter of her younger brother, JoJo.
"I love that our kids are close in age and get to grow up together," Simmons said. "And we get to share those experiences together."
PHOTOS: 7 Celebrity Sibling Feuds
Still, Simmons misses the “sisterly bond” that she and Angela shared before motherhood, back when they worked on  their successful Pastry sneaker line.
"We were always together and we even lived together," she recalled. "So I definitely miss those times but I'm enjoying us as mothers now and the maturity and growth we've both had. It’s a cool time to go through too. Growing up, having our kids grow up together. It’s like a whole new chapter for us essentially."
In fact, sisters are working on relaunching their Pastry in 2018, and she's  even open to the idea of a potential reboot of the family's MTV reality show Run's House.
Until then, fans can watch the Simmons sisters when Growing Up Hip Hop airs on Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on WE tv.
MORE: Vanessa Simmons on 'Emotional Distance' From Sister Angela & How Motherhood Affected Them
Chris Cornell's legacy will live on.
The late Soundgarden singer's family has commissioned a memorial statue in his honor to be placed in his hometown of Seattle, Washington.
Cornell's widow, Vicky, announced the plans in an interview with The Seattle Times on Wednesday. The family has hired artist and sculptor Wayne Toth to create Cornell's statue, which will take about seven months to create. In the meantime, Seattle attorney and family friend Mark Johnson is working with the city to find a location.
"He has already given me a design and the children and I love it,” Vicky told the publication, adding that they would love to hear from fans on where they should place the statue. "He is Seattle’s son,” she added, "and we will be bringing him home and honoring him, I hope, with all of you, your love and support."
Additionally, Vicky also committed $100,000 toward the Chris Cornell Music Therapy Program managed by Childhaven, a non-profit in Seattle that  provides care to abused and neglected  children and provides parents with the tools to help care and nurture their kids.
"Chris was always interested in protecting traumatized children who had suffered physical or psychological abuse,” Vicky shared. "He always felt music was a way to heal even neurological and emotional conditions."
The Audioslave singer committed suicide on May 18, following a performance at the Fox Theater in Detroit, Michigan.
"Chris' passing was so sudden,” expressed Vicky. "It came with no warning except in that last call, which will stay with me forever. I understand everyone is looking for answers that make sense to us. The truth is, it will never make sense. Because it wasn’t meant to happen."
Earlier this month, Cornell's eldest daughter, Toni, took the stage with OneRepublic to perform a touching rendition of Leonard Cohen's "Hallelujah" on Good Morning America in honor of her father and Linkin Park singer, Chester Bennington, who were good friends before their deaths.
Watch the moving performance in the video below.
Salma Hayek can do it all!
The 50-year-old actress played babysitter and chef for Ryan Reynolds and Blake Lively in a hilarious throwback pic posted to her Instagram on Thursday.
"When your friends invite you for dinner and you end up doing all the work," she wrote alongside the snap, which shows her cooking dinner while holding Reynolds' daughter on her hip. "#hitmansbodyguard #ryanreynolds #tbt."
It's not surprising that Reynolds handed the chef's hat to his Hitman's Bodyguard co-star. The actor came clean about his kitchen skills in a recent interview with Men's Health. 
"I am not innovative in the kitchen," he admitted. "If I cook, you'll have a structure fire. The firemen will kick down our door, take my wife away, and give her a better life."
See more in the video below.
It's a pirate's life for Mimi!
Mariah Carey took to Instagram on Thursdsay to share cute pics of herself dressed up as a pirate with her twins, Moroccan and Monroe.
EXCLUSIVE: Mariah Carey Says Her 'Super Smart' Kids Can Be 'Intimidating'
"Treasure hunt!!!," she wrote alongside one pic of herself and her 6-year-old kids in costume.
"Pirates of the boat ⚓🚢⚔💰," Carey captioned another snap.
ET caught up with the singer at her Hollywood Bowl concert last week, where she gushed about the twins' love for the spotlight after they joined her onstage for her performance of "Always Be My Baby."
"Roc and Roe love being on the stage," Carey revealed. "The other day I was teaching miss Monroe 'You Will Always Be A Part Of Me,' and just singing that to her."
"She has a really good ear, so she was she was learning it, but I don't know if she could hear herself onstage," she admitted.
See more in the video below.
The Dunphys are out, and the Beckhams are in!
Looks like there's a new modern family in the building. On Thursday, Victoria Beckham shared a cute pic of herself with husband David Beckham, her kids -- sons Brooklyn, Romeo, Cruz and daughter Harper -- and Jesse Tyler Ferguson visiting the Modern Family set.
"Dunphys are out, the Beckhams moved in. The new modern family! #DavidDunphy #mitchstolemypose @jessetyler 😂 @davidbeckham X VB," the 43-year-old fashion designer wrote on Instagram alongside a silly pic of all of them in the Dunphy living room.
Ferguson also reposted the pic, adding, "The role of Claire is being played by @victoriabeckham. The role of Phil is being played by @davidbeckham. The role of Victoria Beckham is being played by @jessetyler. Thank you all for coming to visit the Modern Family set today! We loved having you all!!! ❤️."
ET recently spoke with the Beckhams' eldest son, 18-year-old Brooklyn, about his new photography book, What I See, and how he began taking pictures.
"I just started carrying it everywhere with me, posting on my Instagram," Brooklyn shared. "And then I just really enjoyed it and I found out I was pretty good at it. So I just stuck with it."
For more on Brooklyn's No. 1 passion and what it's like growing up a Beckham, watch below.
Beyonce is taking her post-baby body seriously!
ET's Deidre Behar caught up with Kelly Rowland at the premiere of True and the Rainbow Kingdom in Los Angeles on Thursday, where she opened up about hitting the gym with Bey and JAY-Z after they welcomed their twins, Rumi and Sir Carter.
"Everybody goes hard!" Rowland said of their workouts. "It's a whole bunch of us who go and work out, and we have a really good time."
"We got to Angela Davis' SoulCycle. She's incredible. She pushes you. SoulCycle is just this really incredible, mental workout that is just awesome," she added. "But Angela Davis, she is the master. There's no one like her."
As for Bey and Jay's twins, Rowland said they're just as adorable as we imagine. "You couldn't expect anything less," she gushed.
The 36-year-old singer brought her own son, Titan, along to Thursday's premiere for a "mommy date."
EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Rowland Dishes on Parenting Advice She Got From Beyonce & Other Famous Moms
"I love being with my son. He's excited. I told him we were coming to see a movie. He loves the movies. He surprisingly sits down and is quiet in movies, which completely blows my mind," she said of her 2-year-old, adding that he's a "really interesting cross" between her and husband Tim Witherspoon's personalities. "He's both of us."
Rowland, who is "so excited" to be back in the studio recording new music and is "inspired by life," said Titan is taking after her in one area: "[He's] very musical."
Titan definitely has a good ear -- Rowland shared that he's already bilingual, and she's working on language No. 3!
"He is fluent in Spanish. I'd like for him to start French. My nephew actually speaks French. And we're looking forward to, hopefully, a Diego birthday party. A Diego-themed birthday party. We'll see what happens," she said of his upcoming third birthday in November, before gushing about her friend, Serena Williams and her soon-to-be baby.
EXCLUSIVE: Serena Williams Lives for Pal Kelly Rowland's Pregnancy Book: 'I Study It. I Highlight Things in It'
"Hands down. She is going to be an amazing mother. I am so excited for her and motherhood," Rowland confessed. "It's natural for her and, this baby is going to probably run the world."
"It's more so the mental of all it, you know what I mean? It takes a hell of a woman to be with-child, and play and winning the Open. So, incredible," she marveled. "Incredible."
See pics from Williams' recent baby shower in the video below. 
True and the Rainbow Kingdom is available exclusively on Netflix on Friday.
Jennifer Aniston doesn't mind when her husband, Justin Theroux, goes through her beauty stash.
In a new interview with Refinery 29, the 48-year-old actress opens up about life at home with The Leftovers star, her No. 1 hair regret and why she believes Hollywood is slowly changing its beauty standards.
Talking about Theroux, Aniston reveals he has some pretty amazing grooming habits.
"He steals my shampoo, my hair paste… whatever product I put on my face, he just does the same for him," she explains. "You know, he likes to dabble. He kind of manscapes, which I actually enjoy. I enjoy a nicely manscape-d partner."
The Friends star previously revealed that she actually hated her signature '90s hairstyle, "The Rachel," but while chatting with the lifestyle website, she admits there was a haircut she despised even more: her bob!
"It just didn't work for me," she confesses. "My hair is too wavy naturally to handle a bob on a daily basis. It would end up looking like a huge ball of fur."
Luckily, she's now found beauty products she knows work for her, which she shared with the outlet.
Aniston swears by Aveeno sunscreen -- "It's in my car, it's by the pool, it's in the kitchen, it's in the bathroom!" -- and is a big fan of L'Oréal Lash Out Mascara, Neutrogena soap and Charlotte Tilbury face masks.
And when asked how she feels about Hollywood's beauty standards today, she admits she's hopeful.
"I actually do think [beauty standards] are changing, and directors and viewers are now more accepting of all shapes and sizes," she says. "You're seeing more female characters that are more relatable and more human than these unattainable, clichéd girlfriend, best friend, whatever. It's really important."
Back in April, Theroux was a guest on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where he revealed that Aniston liked the beard he had to grow for The Leftovers "up to a point."
"She'll like it for about a month and then she's like, 'OK, you have to get rid of it,'" he said. "Then I'm like, 'No, I actually have to keep the beard now for the whole show.'"
Hear more in the video below!
Who needs a runway when you have the streets of New York City?
Jessica Simpson has turned the Big Apple into her very own fashion show, rotating through a series of very sexy ensembles.
The 37-year-old business mogul stepped out of The Bowery Hotel on Thursday in a floral-printed Gucci maxi dress that put her ample cleavage on display. She accessorized with round sunglasses, layered necklaces, a black Gucci handbag and strappy stilettos.
Simpson was clearly feeling good in the designer number. "Dear Lord I love this dress!" she captioned a cute Instagram vid showing off her #OOTD.
That was far from Simpson's only eye-catching look of the week. On Wednesday, she slipped into a very low-cut, long-sleeved polka dot blouse tucked into an itty bitty black leather mini with vertical striped panels and oversized grommets along the hemline for lunch at Emilio's Ballato. The blonde bombshell paired the sultry outfit with the same black heels from the day before, plus a black box clutch, large silver hoops and a matching choker. She finished off her look with long wavy locks, smoky eyes and a pink pout.
Earlier in the day, the mom of two stepped out in a camo mini by Eleven Eleven topped with a blazer, and on Tuesday, she showed off her curves in a red leather Isabel Marant mini skirt, blue-and-red striped ruffled shirt, suede platforms, python Gelareh Mizrahi clutch and flower-adorned Dolce & Gabbana sunglasses.
MORE: Jessica Simpson is 'Feelin' Her Look After Fresh New Haircut
She's clearly on a sartorial role!
Simpson isn't the only fashion star who's been rocking gorgeous floral prints this summer. Click through the gallery below to see even more flower power. 
Jennifer Lopez and her sister, Lynda Lopez, spent some quality time together.
The 48-year-old World of Dance judge and her younger sister were spotted after having a quaint dinner date at the restaurant Nello in New York City on Wednesday night.
J.Lo looked casually cool in ripped blue jeans and a white low-cut body suit, which she paired with black aviators, her signature hoop earrings and her hair swept up in an updo. Meanwhile, the GMA After Hours co-host opted for a sophisticated light blue sheath dress.
The "Ain't Your Mama" singer recently wrapped up the first season of World of Dance and is currently filming the third season of Shades of Blue. On Thursday, Jennifer was snapped fresh-faced in a blue-and-white striped dress, a navy cardigan and sneakers out and about in NYC.
J.Lo has been keeping busy. This past weekend, she and Alex Rodriguez hit the town looking totally glam for a friend's wedding. Take a peek at their jaw-dropping ensembles in the video below.
Evelyn Lozada and Carl Crawford are going their separate ways.
The Basketball Wives star and her baseball player fiance have split, Lozada's rep confirms to ET.
EXCLUSIVE: Evelyn Lozada Talks Reuniting With Jennifer Williams On 'Unpredictable' Season Of 'Basketball Wives'
According to Lozada's rep, the couple broke up because of "infidelity issues" in February, but are focused on co-parenting and raising their 3-year-old son, Carl Jr.
"Evelyn and Carl remain friends," the rep adds.
Lozada, who married and divorced Chad "Ochocinco" Johnson in 2012, began dating Crawford in 2013, and the two became engaged in December of that year. 
ET sat down with Lozada in 2015, where she opened up about her relationship with Crawford and their recent miscarriage.

Princes William and Harry are sharing more of their mother's story.
The royals revisit the week following the death of their mother, Princess Diana, in the BBC-commissioned special, Diana, 7 Days.
The two-hour documentary reflects on the tumultuous week after Diana's Aug. 31, 1997 death, and how the tragedy affected the world. William and Harry, as well as other family members, close friends, political figures and journalists -- including Tony Blair, Alastair Campbell, Earl Spencer and Lady Sarah McCorquodale -- also speak on camera about Diana.
“Part of the reason why Harry and I want to do this is because we feel we owe it to her … I think an element of it is feeling like we let her down when we were younger. We couldn’t protect her," William said in a statement. "We feel we at least owe her 20 years on to stand up for her name and remind everybody of the character and person that she was. Do our duties as sons in protecting her."
"When she died there was such an outpour of emotion and love which was quite shocking. It was beautiful at the same time, and it was amazing now looking back at it," Harry added. "It was amazing that our mother had such a huge effect on so many people."
"When you’re that young and something like that happens to you, I think it’s lodged in here, there, wherever -- in your heart, in your head and it stays there for a very, very long time," he continued. "I think it’s never going to be easy for the two of us to talk about our mother, but 20 years on seems like a good time to remind people of the difference that she made, not just to the Royal Family but also to the world.”
Diana, 7 Days, directed by Henry Singer, will air on Friday, Sept. 1 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
William and Harry also opened up about their last conversation with their mother in last month's HBO special, Diana, Our Mother: Her Life and Legacy.
Watch below.
Bust those moves, Channing Tatum!
Earlier this week in North Carolina, the 37-year-old actor had the best dance party ever with a gas station attendant named Beatrice, as he drove cross country to promote his latest film, Logan Lucky.
ET's Nischelle Turner spoke with Tatum at the premiere of his new film in Tennessee on Wednesday, where he gushed about meeting Beatrice and how much he enjoyed the experience.
"Like, if it wasn't for Jenna [Dewan Tatum], I'd married Beatrice," the actor joked. "She was about to be my date tonight. Beatrice is the truth. Like, just honest to God truth. I love her to death."
The Magic Mike star added that he had so much fun and didn't want to leave, but felt he might get her in trouble.
"I was afraid that she was gonna get fired if I stayed any longer," he told ET. "I was, like, when this goes on the internet, I was, like, man, I hope she doesn't get in trouble for this. She's, like, fanning money around. I love her, man."
Throughout his trip, Tatum shared pics of the adventure and also told ET about some of his favorite pit stops.
"We went to Harlan County, which is one of the, you know, places in Kentucky that we went and rode dirt bikes on a black mountain," he shared. "Literally, so many different places along the way. So many, just like, pieces of gold, you know, that we kept, just as soon as you be like, 'Alright, I guess we got everything here.' We sort of seen the town as much as you can see driving through it and then we would just run into another [town]."
Logan Lucky arrives in theaters on Aug. 18. For more on Tatum and his experience working on the film, watch below.
Nikki Reed and Ian Somerhalder are parents!
The cute couple welcomed their first child on July 25, a baby girl named Bodhi Soleli Reed Somerhalder, E! News reports.
Reed and Somerhalder announced they were pregnant in May with sweet posts on Instagram. 
"I know you, but only because I feel you. How is it possible to love someone so much already?" Reed wrote alongside a cute photo of her husband cradling her baby bump.
"In my 38 years on this earth I've never experienced anything more powerful and beautiful than this. I can't think of anything more exciting than this next chapter," Somerhalder added.
Reed has since remained open about her pregnancy, but in a new interview with Fit Pregnancy and Baby, revealed that she and Somerhalder would be going off the grid for the first month after their baby arrived. 
"We’ll take the baby’s first month for ourselves. After the baby arrives, we’re doing one month of silence. Just the three of us, no visitors, and we’re turning off our phones too, so there’s no expectation for us to communicate," she said, adding that Somerhalder's "favorite thing in the world" was doing things for her during her pregnancy. "Otherwise, every five minutes it would be, ‘How are you feeling? Can we have a picture?’ You don’t get those first 30 days back, and we want to be fully present.”
ET has reached out to Reed and Somerhalder's reps for comment.
See more on the couple in the video below.
This is how the McConaughey family rolls!
Camila Alves took to Instagram on Thursday to share a sweet family pic of herself and her kids with Matthew McConaughey: 9-year-old Levi, 7-year-old Vida and 4-year-old Livingston.
EXCLUSIVE: Matthew McConaughey Dishes on Being a 'Cool Dad' While Playing the Bad Guy
"This is how we #roll 🛫short trip to a sister island the whole family in one carry one...and that includes me!" Alves catpioned the cute shot of her family walking through the airport holding hands. "And yes they do have @subway Here!! 💛."
ET sat down with Alves in June, where she opened up about how she balances her busy life -- and makes family her No. 1. priority.
"I like to keep my priorities straight every day. My priorities are my family, my kids, my husband and my home. And the list goes down from there," she revealed. "So at the end of the day, as long as – no matter what is going on, what stressful thing or problems that I'm having – I can go back to my priority list and check that. That helps me keep it calm throughout the day."
"When [McConaughey] goes to work, we all go. So we have been doing that since even before kids. It's a way that we love to keep everything together and stay connected that way," she added. "It's really good for the kids."
See more in the video below.
Hollywood's biggest names know that it's good to give back. Check out some of the recent non-profit and charity projects they've participated in!