
The third time really is the charm!
Sir Rod Stewart and his wife, Penny Lancaster, have renewed their vows after a decade of marriage. HELLO! magazine shared pictures of their gorgeous ceremony, which took place at their home in Essex, England.
WATCH: Prince William Knights Rod Stewart at Buckingham Palace
Lancaster, an English model, is the third wife of the 72-year-old British rocker, and 26 years his junior. The couple has two children together,  sons Alastair, 11, and Aiden, 6.
"Penny is my whole world. What a girl," the "Forever Young" singer told HELLO! "Love means many things to many people but to me it’s wanting to share everything with the one you love and I love Penny more now than ever, if that is at all possible. It was a beautifully romantic thing to do. We're not proving anything, just sharing our love with our friends and family."
The couple originally married in June 2007 with a small ceremony in Portofino, Italy, surrounded by family and friends.
NEWS: Rod Stewart and A$AP Rocky Join James Corden for the Best Carpool Karaoke Yet
Guests included Stewart's adult children from previous marriages with Alana Stewart and Rachel Hunter, including daughters Kimberly and Renee, and sons Sean and Liam.
Last year, Stewart was officially knighted by Prince William in a ceremony at Buckingham Palace. Check out the video below for more.
J.Rod is showing July 4th love!
Alex Rodriguez and Jennifer Lopez brought plenty of heat to the Big Apple on Friday, locking lips during a taping of the "Love Don't Cost A Thing" singer's Macy's 4th of July Fireworks Spectacular performance.
WATCH: Jennifer Lopez Performs in New York City as Alex Rodriguez Cheers Her On
J.Lo's ex-baseball pro beau fanboyed from the stands, capturing the Kodak moments from her show with his phone.
The 41-year-old Fox Sports commentator shared video from the concert to Instagram, captioning it, "Lola in the City #nituniyo #NYC#4thofjulyweekend."
NEWS: Alex Rodriguez Says Dating Jennifer Lopez Has Been 'Humbling'
Earlier in the night, Lopez shared a sweet pre-show pic of the two cuddling it up in her trailer. Check it out in the video below. 
The world's sexiest felon, Jeremy Meeks, was recently seen smooching Topshop heiress Chloe Green… but it appears he's still married to his wife, Melissa.
In a series of snaps posted on Sunday by the Daily Mail, the 33-year-old model can be seen showing major PDA with Green, 26, as they cruised the Mediterranean on a luxury yacht just off the coast of Turkey.
RELATED: 'Hot Mugshot Guy' Jeremy Meeks Makes Runway Debut During NYFW in Front of Kylie Jenner and Madonna: Pics!
The daughter of billionaire Sir Philip Green -- who owns a series of British retailers including Topshop and Topman -- shared a pic of the two on Instagram. Although, her account now appears to have been deleted.
"Just the beginning… we appreciate all the love and the hate," Green wrote alongside a photo of her with Meeks and his manager, Jim Jordan.
Meanwhile, the father of two, who spent two years in jail after being convicted on felony weapon charges, posted a solo shot from the Turkish vacation, along with a video of himself waterskiing.
The former jailbird is reportedly still married to Melissa Meeks, as the pair celebrated their eight-year anniversary in January. Though Melissa's Instagram profile says they are still together, she posted a series of cryptic messages in the last two weeks that may hint at marital strife.
"Real eyes realize real lies," she captioned a selfie, while another shot quotes a Tupac lyric, "It's just me against the world, baby."
ET has reached out to Meeks' rep for comment.
Looks like Katy Perry might have a famous stalker on her hands!
The "Chained to the Rhythm" singer bumped into Niall Horan backstage at The Voice Australia on Sunday, where they both were making guest appearances.
RELATED: Niall Horan Reacts to Katy Perry's Claim That He Tried to Flirt With Her
"You're following me!" Perry, 32, joked on camera during an Instagram story that included the label, "stage 5 clinger."
"I am -- everywhere," Horan replied, while making a silly face.
Last week, the pop singer implied that the One Direction crooner might have a Graduate-style crush on her.
"I see [Niall] around all the time," she told the Australian morning radio show Fitzy & Wippa on Nova 96.9 FM. "He's always trying to like, get my number, to like, maybe flirt with me but I'm like, 'I could babysit you. I'm like your mom!'"
All joking aside, Perry admitted that the label-mates do share a special bond.
"Niall's amazing, I love him, and I think we feel very connected in a way because I, like, helped him get through The X Factor to join his group," she said on Wednesday. "He's become a big star and I'm like, 'Cool, I guess that means I have taste?' I don't know what that means."
EXCLUSIVE: Niall Horan on Reuniting With His Former One Direction Bandmate Zayn Malik: 'I'm Looking Forward to Seeing Him'
When Horan, 23, heard about Perry's flirting accusations, he chalked up any noticeable affection for the pop singer to strictly friendship.
"Katy, please stop being mean to me," the singer joked on Australia's The Project. "She's just finding any excuse now to just patronize me and go around spreading rumors about me. I just want to be your friend!"
As for the comment about Perry being old enough to be his mother? "I mean, she is talking like she is about 55 years older than me. She is not that much older than me," Horan said of the pair's nine-year age difference.
Perry continued the shenanigans the following day on the same show, stating, "[Niall] wants to go out on a date. Have you ever seen the movie, The Graduate? That's kinda what it feels like. I could be his mom!"
For more from the pop star, watch the clip below.
John Stamos really knows how to rub it in!
The 53-year-old actor took to Instagram on Saturday to share a sweet pic with his Grandfathered co-star, Josh Peck -- alongside a message seemingly throwing shade at Drake Bell.
RELATED: Drake Bell Shows Off Six-Pack Abs Amid Feud With 'Drake & Josh' Co-Star Josh Peck
"I got invited to the wedding and I didn't even want to go. #Honeymoon," Stamos captioned the snap.
RELATED: Josh Peck Marries Girlfriend Paige O'Brien, Celebrates with Former Co-Star John Stamos
Peck tied the knot to Paige O'Brien on June 18, in a wedding attended by famous friends like Stamos and his Drake & Josh dad, Jason Nash. Not invited to the event, however, was Drake himself. 
In now-deleted tweets, Bell declared that "ties are officially cut" between him and Peck.
"When you're not invited to the wedding the message is clear…," Bell tweeted the day after Peck's nuptials. "True colors have come out today. Message is loud and clear. Ties are officially cut. I'll miss you brotha."
MORE: Josh Peck Talks About His Relationship With 'Drake & Josh' Co-Star Drake Bell Today
ET caught up with Peck and Bell's Drake & Josh sister, Miranda Cosgrove, last week, who weighed in the wedding feud by revealing that she wasn't in attendance at the event either.
"I'm just happy for Josh. I hope he has a good marriage," she shared. "I only see them once in a while. I'm going to Drake's birthday in a few days."
See more in the video below.
Ciara and Russell Wilson work hard and train harder!
The 31-year-old singer shared a killer video on Saturday of her and her hubby doing some intense rope workouts.
RELATED: Ciara Drops More Than 20lbs After Giving Birth to Daughter Sienna: Pic!
"Ambition Flow. My Life Patna' @DangeRussWilson ❤️💪🏽" Ciara captioned the clip set to Kendrick Lamar's "DNA."
The two have recently been working out together, and were even joined by Ciara's three-year-old son, Future, last week.
RELATED: Ciara and Russell Wilson Celebrate Future Jr's 3rd Birthday -- See the Adorable Pics!
The mother of two has been on a post-baby weight loss journey since the birth of her first child with Wilson, daughter Sienna, in late April.
In June, the singer posted a photo of herself on the scale, sharing how she lost 20 pounds in four weeks.
“I said I wasn’t going to gain 60lbs Carrying Sienna, and… I did exactly that!... 4 weeks after her birth I lost 20 lbs. This Weeks Goal is 10lbs. I was 183 yesterday. #BounceBack #LevelUp,” Ciara wrote.
The couple has yet to share the first photo of baby Sienna, but fans are anxiously waiting. See more of Ciara's recent weight loss in the video below.
Mariah Carey and Bryan Tanaka love their wine -- especially if it's expensive!
The on-again couple dressed to the nines while enjoying a night out in a wine cellar filled with a collection of bottles worth over $24 million.
RELATED: Mariah Carey and Bryan Tanaka Rekindle Their Romance in Napa Valley -- See the Pics!
"We're literally in a wine cellar that has over 250,000 bottles of wine, worth over 24 million dollars! 👀 It's one of the biggest collections of wine in the world!" Tanaka captioned an Instagram pic of the two. "The best part of this experience was spending it with this beautiful Queen. 😎 #BeautifulMemories #Moments4Life #MuchLove."
RELATED: Mariah Carey Gets Questioned About Ex Fiance James Packer, Gives Best Response Ever
ET caught up with Carey last month, where despite frequent outings with Tanaka, she said she was "single." The mother of two also dished about making it work with her ex-husband, Nick Cannon. 
"He's a good guy," the 47-year-old singer shared. "It's not that hard to make it work. Now we can laugh, and joke, and do the good parts of when we had a relationship."
See more in the video below.
Thirty Seconds to Mars has an exciting new project -- and you can be a part of it!
Just in time for the Fourth of July, Jared Leto and his rock band are creating a video called A Day in the Life of America, which captures "a single day in the life of the beautiful country."
"I want people to capture what's important to them, in their state. We want to see the real America," Leto, 45, said in a statement.
RELATED: EXCLUSIVE: Jared Leto Gushes Over 'Wonder Woman,' Teases His Involvement in Harley Quinn Spin-Off
The Oscar winner also took to Instagram on Friday to ask fans to send in videos of anything that inspires them, whether it be "the sunrise, the sunset, something crazy, something epic, something beautiful, something weird. But just send in something."
RELATED: Jared Leto Reveals Why He's Not Ready to Be a Dad, Teases Secretive Role in 'Blade Runner 2049'
The band also shared a video and letter on their website, telling their fans how they can contribute and to "be as brave, bold and creative as possible" when submitting their clips.
"Our goal is to create this portrait based on footage captured on a single day - July 4th, 2017 - but if there are events that transpire or images we feel we need to tell our story, we will include those," the band wrote. "Thank you for joining us on this incredible and amazing adventure, we can’t wait to see America through your eyes."
ET recently spoke with Leto at the premiere of HBO's new documentary series, The Defiant Ones, where he gushed about Wonder Woman and how the Thirty Seconds to Mars crew went to watch the film.
"I saw the film. I loved it. I thought it was incredible. They did such a good job," he shared. "I watched Wonder Woman as a kid, and I really enjoyed it."
For more on Leto's upcoming projects, watch below.
Michelle Rodriguez didn't mean to call out Vin Diesel.
The 38-year-old actress reunited with her Fast and Furious co-star to set the record straight on her previous comments about leaving the franchise.
RELATED: Michelle Rodriguez Threatens to 'Say Goodbye' to 'Fast & Furious' Franchise -- Here's Why!
"Vin, for many years you've been the biggest supporter of strong women, and I've always appreciated that about you throughout the years," Rodriguez said in an Instagram video, as Diesel leaned in to give her a kiss on the forehead. "And just know that if I ever post anything, that's not you I'm talking to you."
"Of course it's not me!" Diesel laughed before playfully wrestling his longtime co-star.
"Proud of Our saga... but we must try to reach higher each time," the 49-year-old actor captioned the video. "The challenge is what makes it fun and exciting. Its also why this saga has reached the level that it has... you have been the best fans in film history and we are forever grateful...Dom and Letty."
EXCLUSIVE: Michelle Rodriguez Dishes on Charlize Theron in 'Fast 8': She's 'the Most Powerful Villain' Yet
Rodriguez worried fans on Tuesday after posting an Instagram message threatening to leave Fast and Furious if the powers at be didn't "show some love to the women of the franchise for the next one."
The actress expressed similar sentiments while chatting with ET about Fast 8 last September. 
"Charlize Theron is, I think, the most powerful villain this franchise has ever seen," she said. "In order for me to be a part of the franchise in the future, they need to up the ante on the females. I mean, it's like a sausage factory in this thing."
"I just need some more feminine energy," Rodriguez added. "We need some more women on the good side."
See more in the video below.
Miley Cyrus is feeling grateful for her parents!
The 24-year-old singer took to Instagram on Saturday to share a sweet note honoring her parents, alongside a cute throwback pic with her dad, Billy Ray Cyrus.
EXCLUSIVE: Billy Ray Cyrus Gushes Over Miley Cyrus' Sobriety, New Album: 'She's Beaming With Happiness'
"Lovers Hill ❤️💙💚💛💜 the 1st and truest love I have ever known is my dads... @billyraycyrus forever ! @tishcyrus I love you both so much!" Miley captioned the shot. "My life is the result of L-O-V-E! It will always win! It will always overcome fear!"
ET caught up with Billy Ray at the CMT Awards in June, where he opened up about seeing his daughter so happy in her relationship with Liam Hemsworth -- and how they've made themselves at home in Tennessee. 
WATCH: Miley Cyrus on the Advice She Would Give Her Younger Self About Her 2013 Breakup With Liam Hemsworth
“It's a lot of fun. It's fun when I see Miley coming at me on a four wheeler and that infectious laugh of hers,” he said. “She's just really loving middle Tennessee. She actually said to me, ‘God Dad, I remember why I loved it so much here.’”
“Liam's been here quite a bit,” Billy Ray added. “They both love the outdoors. They love four wheeling and the people. Both of them, Liam especially -- you know he's from Australia -- he's like, ‘Man, the people here are so nice, and it's true.”
“I kind of feel like they already have [settled down in Tennessee]. They’re in the yard, so they feel pretty relocated, and it's great," the singer shared. "I just love seeing her so happy."
Olivia Munn's pre-birthday celebrations continue!
The X‑Men: Apocalypse actress, who turns 37 on July 3, rocked a sexy blush bikini while singing along to Mariah Carey on Saturday.
RELATED: Olivia Munn Kicks Off Her Lavish 'Birthday Weekend' With Champagne in a Bikini -- See the Pic!
Showing off her fit physique, Munn shared a video on Instagram of her and her friends dancing on the beach and lip-syncing to Carey's classic song, "Always Be My Baby."
"If u wanna hang with us, u gotta be cool with Beach ✅ Mariah ✅ Interpretive Dancing ✅," the actress captioned the clip.
RELATED: Olivia Munn Slays in Sexy Sheer Dress at Billboard Music Awards in First Red Carpet Post-Aaron Rodgers Split
Munn kicked off her birthday festivities in Turks & Caicos on Friday, and has since been sharing pics of her lavish trip and "birthday crew."
The stunning brunette has been enjoying the single life since splitting from Aaron Rodgers. The couple went their separate ways in March after nearly three years of dating. For more their relationship, watch below.
Steven Tyler sent his daughter, Liv Tyler, the best birthday message.
The 69-year-old Aerosmith frontman took to Instagram on Saturday to wish his eldest daughter a happy 40th birthday.
RELATED: Liv Tyler Shares Sweet Breastfeeding Photo: ‘So Grateful For This Precious Gift’
"YOUR MOM AND DAD ARE SO PROUD OF THE BEAUTIFUL WOMAN YOU ARE. YOU ARE AN ((INVENTRESS)) OF IGNITING YOURSELF OVER AND OVER AGAIN. I LOVE YOU SO MUCH! DADDY," Steven wrote alongside a collage of pictures of Liv.
RELATED: Mia Tyler Welcomes First Child: See Grandpa Steven Tyler Holding Baby Axton!
The Leftovers star also took to social media on Friday to share a flashback pic of her 21st birthday.
Liv will also be celebrating her daughter Lulu's first birthday on July 8. Ahead of the birthday festivities, she shared an adorable pic with her baby girl, gushing about her curls.
"😍 omg 😍 my baby girl suddenly has curls 💗😄💗😀 just the cutest thing I have ever seen 💗💗💗💗💗💗 they change so fast !!!!! 🌸Lula Rose 🌸," she captioned the snapshot.
For more on Liv, watch below.
Matt Bomer's sons are celebrating Canada Day!
The 39-year-old actor took to Instagram on Saturday to celebrate the holiday with a rare photo of his children.
RELATED: Matt Bomer Says Hiding His Sexuality Taught Him How to Act: 'It Was a Struggle'
Bomer shares three kids, Henry, Walker and Kit, with his partner, Simon Halls, who is Canadian.
"Happy 150th birthday Canada!! #canada150 #canada #canadaday #lakelife," the Magic Mike star captioned the sweet pic.
RELATED: Surprise! Matt Bomer is Married
Bomer and his family aren't the only ones celebrating Canada Day. Proud Canadians Ryan Reynolds, William Shatner and Shania Twain all honored the holiday on social media.
EXCLUSIVE: Shania Twain on First Album in 15 Years, Overcoming 'Traumatizing' Divorce and Losing Her Voice
See more celebs celebrating Canada below:
WATCH: Ryan Reynolds Jokes About 'Green Lantern' and 'Canadian Heaven' With Stephen Colbert
"Breyton 4eva!"
Sophia Bush took to Instagram on Saturday to wish a happy 35th birthday to her former One Tree Hill co-star, Hilarie Burton.
RELATED: Sophia Bush's 'One Tree Hill' Family Reunion in Montreal Made Our Dreams Come True
"Happiest Birthday to my sweet @hilarieburton," Bush, 34, began her note. "Sister! We've been through a lot. At least 374 hair colors together. Crushes. Heartbreaks. Hangovers. Halloweens. Tears and laughter. Fear and joy. Successes and burn-it-to-the-ground failures. We've fought like rams and loved like family."
"It's such a thrill to be in this place with you, 14 years after we first met and danced too late in bars -- still giddy that we were finally 21 -- and to watch you shine. You're a champion for your community. An incredible mom. You're the alpaca whisperer. You're whip smart and razor sharp and deeply tender," she continued. "There is no one I would have rather been on the world's most insane roller coaster with. And I'm so glad there's evidence that we both used to overpluck our eyebrows, undeniably, on the internet forever. At least we're not alone."
"I love you mama," Bush concluded. "#Breyton4eva #BreytonFeels #ShesMine #BetterInRealLife."
Because Bush and Burton literally ARE Brooke and Peyton, the birthday girl responded with her own sweet message about their friendship.
"You are just........the prettiest inside and out. I love the wild women we've evolved into TOGETHER," Burton replied. "Thank you for unconditional friendship and for being my style icon!!!! Seriously Soph. You're magic. I love you. Xxxxxxxx."
RELATED: There Was a 'One Tree Hill' Reunion But the Best Characters Weren't Even There
ET caught up with James Lafferty last year, who revealed that he's already got some ideas for a One Tree Hill revival. 
"Nathan's gone back into basketball, coaching in the NBA," he brainstormed. "Haley's got an incredible music career. Jamie, I think, is on his way to the NBA and then maybe there's a few more, like 14 more, Scott kids coming through the pipeline."
See more in the video below.
Dakota Johnson had plenty of famous friends to help ring in her latest birthday.
The Fifty Shades of Grey actress turned 27 on Tuesday, and spent the day with supermodel Cara Delevingne. Johnson also got a personal greeting from Taylor Swift, which Delevingne Instagrammed.
"Happy birthday @dakotajohnson #facetimefamilyphoto," the 24-year-old Suicide Squad actress captioned a cute pic of her and Johnson smiling as Swift appeared on an iPhone.
By the looks of it, 26-year-old Swift enjoyed their girl time just as much as Delevingne and Johnson, flashing a huge grin on-screen.
Johnson currently has some free time on her hands, as filming wrapped on shooting the Fifty Shades trilogy in July. The last scenes shot from Fifty Shades Freed -- which won't hit theaters until February 2018 -- included Johnson and her handsome co-star Jamie Dornan making out on a balcony in Paris, France, and the two adorably riding bikes together.
Meanwhile, the first Fifty Shades of Darker trailer debuted earlier this month, featuring lots of sex, drama, and danger. The highly anticipated second installment of the E.L. James trilogy hits theaters on Feb. 10, 2017.
Watch below:
Anderson Cooper has taken himself out of the running to be Kelly Ripa's permanent Live! co-host.
A source close to Cooper confirms to ET that the 49-year-old TV anchor will be staying with CNN, where he currently hosts the news program Anderson Cooper 360, and is no longer being considered to replace Michael Strahan on the daytime talk show.
A source close to Live! also tells ET that Cooper was Ripa's "first choice" to co-host alongside her, but "he was never a frontrunner for executives who oversee the show."
Another source at Live! tells us that Cooper hasn't been up for the job in months.
Ratings for Cooper's CNN show have been great through this election season, and the cable news network is all for keeping him on as a face of the channel, a source close to the journalist's CNN negotiations tells ET. The source adds that Cooper's role at CNN will also expand to include big specials and more election coverage. While the source isn't privy to Cooper's salary with his new CNN contract, it's believed to be upwards of $10 million a year.
In June, a source told ET that Cooper -- who's hosted Live! several times since Strahan's departure in May -- had made it clear to executives that he would like to do both Live! and his nightly CNN show if offered the chance.
While on Watch What Happens Live in April, Cooper also responded to rumors that he was considering joining the show. "Look, I'm very happy at CNN," he told WWHL host, Andy Cohen, who was also rumored to be considering the job. "It would be a dream to work with Kelly, but nobody's offering anything."
A source close to Live! told ET in September that the ABC program was in no rush to find a permanent replacement. "The show is going to stick to doing a round robin shuffle of guest co-hosts for the time being," the source explained. "Kelly likes the dynamic right now, so they’re not in a hurry to make a decision anymore."
Other names that have been thrown around to co-host Live! include Rob Lowe, Fred Savage and Alec Baldwin, but a source told ET that the show doesn't plan to name a replacement until November.
Laura Prepon and Ben Foster have taken their relationship to the next level.
Prepon, 36, and Foster, 35, are engaged, a source confirms to ET. The couple attended The New York City premiere of The Girl on the Train on Tuesday night, when the Orange Is the New Black actress showed off her sparkly new diamond ring on that finger.
PICS: The Biggest and Best Celebrity Engagement Rings
ET confirmed that Prepon and Foster were an item in July, when they were spotted out multiple times together in New York City. Foster last dated House of Cards actress Robin Wright, but they broke off their engagement twice, for the final time in August 2015. As for Prepon, she broke up with former Greek star Scott Michael Foster in 2013 after five years together.
ET spoke with Prepon on Tuesday at her big premiere, when she stunned in a lacy blue Naeem Khan dress. Prepon said the highly anticipated film stays true to the beloved Paula Hawkins bestseller it's adapted from.
"We're actually pretty accurate to the book, as where Orange [Is the New Black], we really kind of splinter off into, you know, different worlds," she told ET. "I mean, it's amazing. It's a great thing to be a part of. It was on the [New York Times Best Sellers] list for an insane amount of time, and it's a beautiful book. And I think that we do that justice with the movie."
Although she didn't speak out about her engagement, she did gush about her loved ones.
"All my friends are so supportive and amazing," she said about their excitement to see The Girl on the Train finally hit the big screen. "They're supportive of anything I do."
Interestingly enough, Prepon's engagement isn't the only happy news on the Orange Is the New Black set. Writer Lauren Morelli and actress Samira Wiley announced their own engagement on Tuesday.
Watch the video below to see Prepon react to her first ET interview when she was just 18 years old, and the advice she gave herself that has stuck with her to this day.
Are you Team Josh or Team Charles?
This season, TV Land’s delightful comedy, Younger, is knee-deep in a love triangle with Liza (Sutton Foster), her much-younger, on-again boyfriend Josh (Nico Tortorella), and her more age-appropriate boss Charles (Peter Hermann).

ET premieres an exclusive clip from Wednesday’s episode, wherein Liza and Charles share an awkward and tense moment at the workplace, and others begin to take notice.
“Charles represents maturity and adulthood and intellectual stimulation. They have a lot in common, obviously, with their love of books and literature,” Foster told ET. “And Josh represents freedom and youth and danger and excitement.”
“They both kind of pull at your heart. Even acting with both of them [Nico and Peter], I’m like, ‘I don’t know!’” the 41-year-old actress admitted in regards to which guy is the better fit. “I’m the luckiest girl alive to be able to act with both those guys.”

“Different people wake up different things in people’s souls, and I think [Charles] wakes [something] up in her,” Hermann told ET, adding that he believes Charles “will ultimately be more fulfilling in her life.”
Making matters more complicated is the fact that Charles isn’t aware of Liza’s secret, not that that would necessarily be a deal-breaker. “There’s a beauty to the relationship when two people love something together, and I think that they could look at life together for a very long time,” he added.
But Tortorella noted that in the end, Josh may have an advantage when it comes to winning Liza’s heart. “He knows who she really is,” the 28-year-old actor told ET matter-of-factly. “And he still loves her for it, even though he’s been through the wringer with her. It’s not even a question.”
It’s going to be long, frustrating ride (in a good way!) all season when it comes to the love triangle, and Foster was coy when asked about whether Liza makes an ultimate choice between Josh and Charles.
“Maybe she doesn’t choose anybody,” Foster said with a laugh. “I think you just have to watch.”
Additional reporting by Lexi Ciccone.

Season four of Arrow ended with Oliver Queen (Stephen Amell) winning the battle against big bad Damien Darhk (Neal McDonough) and being sworn in as mayor of Star City, but those were some of the only bright spots for Team Arrow.
The final episodes of the season also saw the death of Laurel Lance (Katie Cassidy), aka the Black Canary; the dissolution of the core team, as Thea Queen (Willa Holland) and John Diggle (David Ramsey) began to second-guess their heroic personas; and the official end of Oliver’s relationship with Felicity Smoak (Emily Bett Rickards).
Now, as The CW’s stalwart superhero show returns for its fifth season, star Echo Kellum, who plays tech genius Curtis Holt, thinks the heartbreak of last season has set up some truly terrific adventures to come.
“I want fans to know that I think the fifth season of Arrow is going to be, possibly, the best season of Arrow,” Kellum recently revealed to ET’s Leanne Aguilera. “I really believe that with my heart, and all of the things we're doing: the stunts, the fights, really delving into Oliver's legacy, I think it's going to be the best season we've ever had.”
“I think if you sleep on it you're going to be woke by mid-season, because everybody's going to be like, 'Yo, if you haven’t been watching it, you've been tripping!'” he added with a laugh. “We're doing some really awesome and amazing things.”
One of those amazing things includes the CW’s ambitious, four-show DC Comics crossover event, which teams the Green Arrow crew with the super squads from The Flash, Legends of Tomorrow, and Supergirl, after the latter’s move to The CW for its sophomore season, which premieres next week.
“It's going great,” Kellum said of shooting the “super epic” crossover, teasing that he gets to share a scene with another beloved CW/DC techie, The Flash’s Cisco Ramon (Carlos Valdes). “We're having so much fun and we're crushing it. It's so exciting.”
While The Flash, Arrow and Legends have explored exciting crossovers in past seasons, it’s unclear how the arrival of Kara Danvers (Melissa Benoist) and her teammates into the fold will affect The CW’s iteration of the DC ‘verse, particularly when the Girl of Steel supposedly exists on a separate Earth from the other shows, as evidenced when Barry Allen (Grant Gustin) accidentally zoomed his way into her world for a crossover during Supergirl’s first season.
“I just can’t wait for fans to get to witness that,” Kellum marveled. “It is going to be so much fun and the filming is great.”
TV: Katie Cassidy Is Returning to the 'Arrow' Universe -- Plus, Watch the Cast Sing 'Hamilton'!
During the show’s hiatus over the summer, fans also learned that another one of the characters in The CW’s DC universe is going to come out as LGBT. For Kellum, whose Arrow character is openly gay, the more the merrier.
“I think it's great,” he said. “I think we need equal representation on TV and film and I think that's something that the Berlanti universe is really incorporating and really just making great strides on. I think it's important to see ourselves in media because the media a lot of time forwards us as a society.”
In an era when black superheroes like Black Panther and Luke Cage are toplining their own Marvel projects, and Wonder Woman writer Greg Rucka can concede that the character of Diana Prince is “obviously” queer, Kellum said he’s proud to be a part of more diversity making its way into comic canon.
“[Vice President] Joe Biden said that Will & Grace had a big part in changing people’s perspective on the LGBT community,” he noted. “I think having that out there -- whether it's people of color or the LGBT community -- it’s just important to be out there amongst all of our Caucasian peers and straight peers, because that's the world we live in.”
“The world isn’t just one segment,” Kellum added. “It's just nice to have that represented out there and to see yourself on the screen and be like, 'I can do that!' That's important.”
EXCLUSIVE: Stephen Amell Says His Russian Is Getting Better, Teases 'Arrow' Season 5: 'We're Trying to Do It Right'
It was like no time had passed when Sarah Jessica Parker hit the red carpet with her Sex and the City co-stars on Tuesday night.
Cynthia Nixon and Mario Cantone, who portrayed Miranda Hobbes and Anthony Marantino on the wildly popular HBO series and movies, showed up at the New York City premiere of the 51-year-old actress' new HBO show, Divorce.
Parker would have made her SATC character, Carrie Bradshaw, proud with her purple sequin Dolce & Gabbana dress, SJP Collection shoes, a Chloe bag and Fred Leighton jewelry.
In addition to Nixon and Cantone, other stars at the premiere included SJP's husband, Matthew Broderick, and pals Andy Cohen, Olivia Newton John, and Jessica and Jerry Seinfeld. While on the red carpet, ET had Broderick share some tips he would give to Parker's on-screen husband, Thomas Haden Church. "Listen to her. You know, that helps," the 54-year-old actor advised. "Give her a little present every now and then. Just be kind to her."
EXCLUSIVE: Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick Dish On Marriage Secrets and Divorce
Tuesday's mini-SATC reunion comes after Parker recently spoke to ET about the possibility of a third sequel in the TV-turn-movie franchise.
"We have this very long and honored relationship with those women and men that watched our show," she said. "We aren't casual about it and we have to know that we are offering up something that is deserving of their time and affection and dollars for tickets. So we consider all those things. That means we aren't being flighty with them. It's not on the table. It's in the warming drawer."
EXCLUSIVE: Sarah Jessica Parker Compares Carrie Bradshaw to New Divorce Character
In a broadcast news magazine exclusive, ET went behind the gates of Paisley Park, Prince's rarely seen home and recording complex in Chanhassen, Minnesota, before it opened to the public as a museum honoring the late museum. From the through the 'Purple Rain' room to his studio, click through the gallery to take a rare look at the palatial estate that is 100 percent Prince.














Months after Prince's death, the iconic musician's Paisley Park estate is getting ready to open to the public. ET's Kevin Frazier recently joined Angie Marchese, Director of Archives at Paisley Park, for an exclusive guided tour of the sprawling compound in Chanhassen, Minnesota.
Marchese began in the estate's stunning atrium, which she called "the heart of Paisley Park."
"The skylights, the clouds, they really give it that open feeling that Prince loved about this place," she explained. "This is where he would relax and this room is being captured kind of as a moment in time. This is the way it was left and it's the way we are keeping it."
As Prince contemplated his life and career under the skylights of the atrium, he wasn't alone. The singer was accompanied by his two pet doves, Majesty and Divinity, who are still living in the atrium in his absence.
"They’re here to greet us just like they were here to greet Prince," Marchese explained.
After the beauty of the atrium, the tour continued with a look at the singer's famous Purple Rain room, which was set up as a monument to the artist's beloved 1984 album and movie.
PHOTOS: Prince: A Look Back at His Most Iconic Moments
The room features the original album, Prince's iconic purple ensemble from the rock musical, and a slew of other coveted Purple Rain memorabilia -- including the Academy Award the film won for Best Original Score, front and center.
"That is the Oscar," Marchese explained. "So when you first walk in the room, the first thing you see is the Oscar."
Finally, Marchese introduced the "Holy Grail of Paisley Park": Studio A, Prince's 1,500-square foot studio where he recorded the bulk of his impressive musical catalog.
However, it wasn't just Prince who made beautiful music in the spacious studio. "Celine Dion recorded in here, Madonna recorded in here," Marchese shared. "This was kind of the heart of the creativity here at Paisley Park."
According to Marchese, the studio hasn't been changed or altered in any way since Prince's death in April, and everything is exactly "the way we found it."
"It was really important that we keep the authenticity of Paisley Park," she explained. "We keep that feeling here as if Prince could walk in at any moment and be sitting behind those control panels…. We really wanna be true to Paisley and true to Prince."
Further along in the estate, a wall of Prince's gold and platinum records -- as well as a large, framed case displaying tickets for the 88 shows in his 2004 Musicology Tour -- block the elevator where the singer’s body was discovered.
Frazier also spoke with Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, who opened up about the Paisley Park museum and what it means for her brother's legacy.
"We left it the way he would want everybody to see it," Nelson explained. "That's what you want when you come here -- you want to see him."
According to Nelson, the museum will give fans a chance to get a much more intimate look at the life of the revered artist.
"When you normally see Prince up on stage, it's a distance. This is up close," she explained. "When you start to see the different eras in his life, you'll go, I remember where I was when that song came on. You'll hear the music, you'll smell the smells, and you'll experience Prince up close and personal."
As for Prince's unreleased music, sitting and waiting in the vault at Paisley Park, Nelson said that it wouldn't be locked away for much longer.
"We're going to pull it up and we're going to remix it and we're going to get it out!" she said, adding that efforts to release the unheard tracks would be made "as soon as possible."
For more with Nelson on Prince's legacy, and to see the rest of Paisley Park, tune into Entertainment Tonight on Wednesday. Check here for local listings.
Dax Sheperd is definitely a "free spirit."
Kristen Bell appeared on Conan on Tuesday, where the host brought up her hubby's jokes the last time he stopped by the TBS show. Shepard jokingly suggested that he and Conan O'Brien do a "wife swap" and switch it up.
"I don't want to hurt your feelings, but you're not the first person he's tried to get us to swing with," Bell said. "He's a very free spirit, you know. ... Also a horn dog, but around my parents, we say free spirit."
"We're not actually swinging with anyone," she clarified.  "He just loves people. He loves the human frame and he constantly suggests at different dinner parties that we 'hang out' and 'really get to know each other.'"
Bell, 36, did admit that there's one couple they're "so in love with" -- her Veronica Mars co-star, Ryan Hansen, and his wife, Amy.
"We've decided that our couple will marry their couple," she said. "Since we got married, we call each other super spouses, and we are the first-ever four-way couple."
Though all jokes aside, Bell couldn't be more in love with her husband. The Good Place star sweetly defended the 41-year-old actor when O'Brien poked fun at the overalls he was wearing during his last appearance.
"First of all, he can wear anything he wants, OK? He's that adorable and charming, and he has his own sense of style," Bell said. "And don't you think it's great that he doesn't just fall in line with like, 'I guess I'm going to wear a suit, or a sweater vest, or whatever everybody else is doing?'"
Bell also explained that there's a very good reason Shepard needs a pair of overalls.
"He's also very manly!" she gushed. "He works on all the machines at her house. If anything breaks, he'll be able to fix it. So, he's got to have overalls, you know?"
ET spoke to Bell earlier this month at the Emmys, when she got real about balancing acting and parenting her two daughters with Shepard -- 3-year-old Lincoln and 1-year-old Delta.
"Only one of us works at a time," Bell told ET exclusively. "We have a lot of great people that are our support system and we bring our kids everywhere -- my babies come to work every day, I have the luxury of doing that. We're very mindful about taking jobs that will not take us away from them too much."
Watch below:
Jennifer Aniston adorably stars in her latest commercial for the luxurious Emirates Airlines, and this time the former Friends star befriends a cute little boy named Cooper, who happens to be playing with a model plane in her first class seat.
Serving as Cooper’s “co-pilot," Aniston stops to “refuel” with some tasty carrot juice at the plane’s bar.
“So you want to fly planes when you grow up, huh?” the actress asks her new friend.
“Yeah, but this is the best plane, Jen, so I only want to fly this one,” he tells her.
But it’s Cooper’s parents who get the real surprise when the A-lister shows up at their seats after having escorted their son all the way back.
She then trades seats with Cooper’s mom, who the flight attendant assures Aniston is “doing just fine,” as she closes her private compartment for some rest.
This isn’t the first ad that Aniston has done for Emirates. Back in October 2015, she also starred in a commercial where she had a nightmare about not being on a plane with a shower or bar.
To see Aniston’s husband, Justin Theroux, open up about their marriage to ET, watch the video below!
Tori Spelling's brood is getting bigger.
The 43-year-old Beverly Hills, 90210 star's rep confirmed to ET on Wednesday that she and husband Dean McDermott are expecting their fifth child. The couple -- who recently celebrated their 10th wedding anniversary in May -- are already parents to Liam, 9, Stella, 8, Hattie, 5 and Finn, 4, and Dean has an 18-year-old son, Jack, from a previous marriage.
Tori and Dean's baby news comes after the two have openly spoken about their efforts to rebuild their marriage after Dean, 49, admitted in 2014 that he was unfaithful to his wife. When ET spoke to the couple in January, they gushed over how their marriage was in "the best place."
"For me, [I'm most proud of] the growth [of our relationship]," Spelling shared. "It just gets better, and I think when you go into a relationship, at least for me, you have all these fairy tale expectations. What it should be or shouldn't be, where it's going to go and where it's going to plateau. You get to that point where [it's like], 'Wow, this is amazing' on a different level of what I ever expected."
"In our relationship, we've definitely had to, not start over, but rebirth the relationship as something that was new and kind of moving on towards the future." she added. "By doing that, we've had this great, amazing rebirth of our relationship, and it's more exciting each day."
Tori endured severe complications with her last pregnancy with son Finn in 2012. The actress had a form of placenta previa, in which the placenta completely covers the cervix, and suffered internal bleeding throughout her pregnancy.
"It was surreal," she told Us Weekly at the time. "I just remember thinking, I can't leave three children behind."
"When they put [Finn] in my arms I was like, 'We made it. We did,'" she continued. "Now we have an insane bond. We've been through hell and back."
EXCLUSIVE: Dean McDermott Gushes Over 'Hot' Wife Tori Spelling, Says Their Marriage Is in 'The Best Place' It's Ever Been
Hilary Duff got herself a rosebud! The Younger star took to Instagram on Tuesday night to show off her new ink.
“Had a good hang with @_dr_woo_ yesterday and I’m loving my rose,” she captioned a black and white shot of herself getting inked.
MORE: Hilary Duff Turns 29, Celebrates With Slippers and Mini Cupcakes
Duff then posted a photo of the new tattoo of two tiny rosebuds on her right arm, writing, “There she is thanks again @_dr_woo_.”
The TVLand star, 29, has lots of small tattoos all over her body. Back in March 2015, she opened up to Ellen DeGeneres about her decision to get the permanent body art.
"I think that part of me loves tattoos and part of me doesn't want the full commitment of getting to see them all the time," she explained. "So when my arms are down I look just like a normie and when my arms are out I look super hardcore like a gangster."
Dr. Woo has also tattooed other celebrity clients. Just this past July he gave Miley Cyrus a small jar of Vegemite on her arm.
For more on Duff’s tattoos, watch the video below!
Chrissy Teigen has reached her limit with one of her social media accounts.
The 30-year-old supermodel switched her Twitter page to private late Tuesday, but didn’t appear to delete any of her followers.
“Yeah,” she replied to one fan who asked if her account was private. “Not strong enough anymore.”
But she also clarified that her decision to lock her tweets had nothing to do with the many trolls who populate her mentions.
“It’s not haters or trolls or generally mean people,” she wrote. “I just feel like I’m absorbing bad s**t 24/7. My body and mind cannot handle it anymore.”
Teigen has always been very vocal online, responding to her various critics. She has also spoken up many times in the wake of this year’s presidential election.
During Tuesday’s Vice Presidential Debate, John Legend’s wife criticized Republican candidate Mike Pence, tweeting, “Whoa we are witnessing the death of Pence’s batteries.”
Teigen also recently spoke out via social following close pal Kim Kardashian’s robbery earlier this week.
To see how Teigen and other celebrities reacted to the traumatic incident, watch the video below:
American Ninja Warrior co-host Akbar Gbajabiamila is hoping to use his star status to help put an end to domestic violence.
The 37-year-old former NFL pro has joined forces with Meathead Movers -- a for-profit student athlete moving company that provides free moving services to victims of domestic violence -- to launch #MoveToEndDV, a  non-profit organization that is working to get businesses to take the pledge of helping shelters and victims of abuse by donating their resources. "There's nearly 20 people a minute who are physically abused. That's a lot, those numbers add up," Gbajabiamila tells ETonline. "There are a lot of people who need to get out of that type of situation."
Gbajabiamila, who was once a student athlete himself, is serving as a celebrity ambassador for the movement and hopes to inspire others to get involved and urge businesses worldwide to unite in an effort to end domestic violence. "Essentially what I've signed on for is to kind of just get people aware of it, [to leverage] my celebrity status to get other celebrities to just be an ambassador," he shares. "And get the conversation started about ending domestic violence."
"Whatever it is you have to offer that your business can do, the more they can get other businesses to get involved," Gbajabiamila adds.
"Our ultimate goal is to ensure that every county has free services 
available to victims that are looking to flee an abusive situation," #MoveToEndDV's website explains.
 "In order to provide these services, we’re asking our ambassadors to 
reach out to local shelters to request a Wish List of Needs to help 
lower their overhead costs."
EXCLUSIVE: Terry Crews Talks Ray Rice and His Own Experiences With Domestic Violence
So far, momentum has been building on social media around the organization's message, and thanks to the involvement of people like Gbajabiamila.
For more information about the #MoveToEndDV campaign and to learn how to get involved as a pledging business, ambassador volunteer or donor, visit www.movetoenddv.org.
EXCLUSIVE: Stacey Dash Says Domestic Abuse Takes Victims' Humanity Away
Look but don’t touch, ladies! Kim Zolciak took to Snapchat on Tuesday to show off just how lucky she is. The Don’t Be Tardy star snapped a sneaky pic of her football player hubby, Kroy Biermann, brushing his teeth, sans-undies.
“My baby!” she captioned the shot. “Don’t you wish beyotches.”
In the photo, Zolciak covered her man’s privates with some strategically placed green marks that managed to leave his toned tush very visible.
It seems not everyone was amused by the reality star’s NSFW pic. Zolciak later snapped a screengrab of her eldest daughter, Brielle, responding to the post.
Brielle wrote, “Dude what the f**k delete this bulls**t,” to which her mom replied, “I can’t stop laughing.”
This isn’t the first time Zolciak has taken to Snapchat to brag about her marriage to Biermann. Just last week she dispelled rumors that the couple is currently going through a rough patch after Biermann was cut from the Buffalo Bills.
“I swear I’m like married to the king. He cleaned the whole house this morning and he cleaned the waterfall out front,” she gushed in several clips. “I swear he’s like the most incredible human that’s ever walked this planet.”
To see Kim defending her marriage, watch the video below!
Olivia Newton John doesn’t feel great affection towards the sequel to her 1978 musical classic, Grease. The singer and actress appeared on Watch What Happens Live on Tuesday, where host Andy Cohen asked what she thought of the 1982 flick, Grease 2, which starred Michelle Pfeiffer.
“Not a lot,” she quipped. “I kind of remember they did ask [John Travolta and I]. They approached John and I to do it and then it didn’t happen. I didn’t think it was gonna happen, and then they made it with other people.”
While widely panned, the sequel did gain a cult following. But this past year’s production of Grease Live is another matter.
The Fox show, starring Julianne Hough as Sandy and Aaron Tveit as Danny, earned praise from fans and recently scored an Emmy, beating out Beyonce’s Lemonade.
Newton-John also gave it her stamp of approval, saying “I liked it. It was fun.”
The seasoned actress met her present-day counterpart, Hough, when she served as a guest judge on Dancing With the Stars in October 2015.
To see more from her appearance, watch the video below!
They may play on-screen exes, but in real life, Emily Blunt and Justin Theroux are good pals. The Girl on the Train co-stars and their famous spouses – John Krasinski and Jennifer Aniston – have been known to hit the town together.
So what’s a night out like for the A-list foursome?
“Food usually,” Blunt told ET at the New York premiere of her new thriller. “I kind of like food. And I really like a nice, cold martini.”
As for what goes on behind closed doors when she’s alone with Krasinski, she teased, “Why would I ever tell you the kind of sorted, dirty things that go on?” quickly adding, “No, nothing. It’s quite boring.”
The mother of two also revealed that her eldest daughter, Hazel, loves to watch her get ready for the red carpet.
“She looks a bit like surprised, like whoaaa, and gives me a look up and down,” Blunt said. “It's a look she's not used to seeing.”
As for whether the couple’s daughters, Hazel and Violet, will ever hit the red carpet with their actor parents – “Never,” Blunt declared firmly.

Though Kim Kardashian has stayed out of sight since returning to New York City on Monday, her famous family has since been spotted out.
On Tuesday evening, Kanye West was seen exiting the couple’s NYC apartment, looking somber in green sweat pants and a khaki jacket with his hood up, obstructing most of his face.
Earlier in the day, Kim’s older sister, Kourtney Kardashian was photographed taking her eldest son, Mason Disick, to art class on the opposite coast in Los Angeles while decked out in workout attire.
Despite their return to somewhat of a routine, the reality stars are still reeling from Kim’s Sunday robbery in Paris, France, which left her bound and gagged in her apartment with millions in jewels stolen.
A source tells ET that Kim is “absolutely traumatized” after the terrifying incident and has had trouble sleeping after she was awoken with a gun to her head just days before.
Since news broke of Kim’s ordeal, her family and friends have rushed to her side, staying relatively quiet on social media.
"She's very emotional. The scariest part for her throughout this experience is the fact that it could have been a lot worse, and she couldn’t imagine what that would have been like for her children," a source tells ET. "The kids have no idea what’s going on, thankfully."
For more on the aftermath, watch the video below:
Rapper Kid Cudi checked himself into rehab on Monday for “depression and suicidal urges.”
“It took me awhile to get to this place of commitment, but it is something I have to do for myself, my family, my best friend/daughter and all of you, my fans,” the rapper shared in an emotional Facebook post on Tuesday. “I am not at peace. I haven't been since you've known me. If I didn't come here, I would've done something to myself.”
Cudi, who recently made headlines for a short-lived feud with his former mentor, Kanye West, admitted to fans that “anxiety and depression have ruled my life for as long as I can remember and I never leave the house because of it.”
“I deserve to have peace. I deserve to be happy and smiling. Why not me?” he continued. “I guess I give so much of myself to others I forgot that I need to show myself some love too. I think I never really knew how.”
The rapper, who signed the post with his real name, Scott Mescudi, apologized profusely to fans throughout, but over 15,000 responses and comments on the Facebook post at the time of publishing featured nothing but love for Cudi, who promised that his upcoming album is “still on the way.”
“I’m nervous but I’ma get through this,” he wrote. “I wanted to square away all the business before I got here so I could focus on my recovery… Love and light to everyone who has love for me and I am sorry if I let anyone down. I really am sorry. I'll be back, stronger, better. Reborn.”
See more about Cudi’s recent spat with West in the video below.
Tuesday's Dancing With the Stars results show was especially magical for pro dancers Sasha Farber and Emma Slater, who got engaged after Farber popped the question in front of the audience on live TV.
While the moment couldn't have gone any smoother, that didn't mean Farber wasn't nervous about the public proposal.
"I was dying, I'm not gonna lie," the 33-year-old Australian dancer told ET's Angelique Jackson backstage after the show. "Usually I'm like, running around and having fun backstage but I was just in the corner [before proposing]."
“I touched my hands and they were sweating, and I was like, 'Oh my god, I've still got to do this dance. And then I've got this in my pocket, what if it falls out?'" he added. "I didn't know what to expect."
The sweet moment came just after Farber and Slater, who have been dating for over five years, finished a passionate contemporary dance routine as the show came back from a commercial break. However, Slater said she had a feeling something was about to happen before Farber even opened his mouth.
"As soon as [our dance] was over, I felt his energy get even worse, like even more nervous than when we danced, and I thought that was really strange." Slater, 27, explained to ET. "I turned to Sasha and he turned to me, and I was like, 'Ahh!' He didn't even say one word and I think I started to hyperventilate and do all that really like, ugly crying stuff, which I'm sure I'm going to regret, but it was the best day of my life!"
Farber, who said he's "been planning this for a while," also revealed that he went about it the old-fashioned way, and actually called up Slater's dad to ask for his blessing.
"He actually said he was really overwhelmed that Sasha did that," Slater shared of her father’s response. "He really respected that. My whole family loves Sash."
The newly-engaged pro also showed off her fancy new sparkler, which she said was everything she could have wanted -- because she was the one to pick it out!
"I really, really like colored stones and I saw this and it was kind of like a vintage, dusky kind of color and I love that," Slater shared. "It was the same color that my mom had for her wedding ring and I love it. It's everything."
Minutes after their joyful engagement, Slater flashed her gorgeous engagement ring in a pic on the DWTS Instagram, gleefully displaying the dazzling jewelry in all its glory.
PHOTOS: Size Does Matter: The Biggest and Best Celebrity Engagement Rings
As for wedding plans, the cute couple already have a few ideas on how they should celebrate their big day.
"'80s themed wedding! We gotta get Vanilla Ice to perform, Babyface, we're gonna have em all!" Farber said.
"Now that we got engaged here, we should just have a wedding here in the ballroom. Invite all our guests, get Tom to marry us!" Slater added. "Tom would do a great job!"
PHOTOS: PDA Alert! Celebrity Couples Who Can't Keep Their Hands Off Each Other
All joking aside, Slater said that they really are interesting in having a "more chill" wedding.
"I feel like that reflects us as people," she explained. "We don't even know where we'd have it yet, but definitely more just like a party for everybody, a celebration, that's what we think it should be."
For more on their cute couple's epic engagement, check out the video below.
Sarah Jessica Parker and Matthew Broderick  are opening up to ET about their secrets to a happy marriage.
The couple, who will celebrate their 20th wedding anniversary next year, attended Tuesday night’s premiere of Parker’s new HBO series, Divorce, in New York City, where Broderick offered up his advice on being a good husband.
EXCLUSIVE: Sarah Jessica Parker Open to ‘Sex and the City’ Reunion on ‘Divorce’
“Listen to her. You know, that helps,” the actor told ET’s Jennifer Peros, when asked what tips he would give Thomas Haden Church, who plays Parker’s on-screen husband. “Give her a little present every now and then. Just be kind to her.”
Broderick, 54, added said that “communicating” and not going to bed angry are vital to a healthy relationship.
Meanwhile, Parker shared that it was her fascination with imperfect marriages that inspired her return to television in Divorce, a comedy in which she plays Frances, an executive recruiter and mom of two.
“I was really interested in more stories of marriages and relationships and how different they all look,” said Parker. “In particular, 'What does disappointment look like?' and 'How do you find humor in failure?' and, some might say, the story of an American marriage. I'd say it's also an attempt at divorce.”
“But I just think relationships and human interaction and honesty is a really compelling subject matter to me,” continued the 51-year-old actress. “Luckily HBO felt the same way.”
Sarah Jessica Parker is Miley Cyrus’ First Celebrity Interview
While Parker recently told ET that Divorce is not Sex and the City 2.0, the iconic series still has its presence in her life, with the actress teasing a third SATC movie may still come to fruition.
“We have this very long and honored relationship with those women and men that watched our show,” she said. “We aren't casual about it and we have to know that we are offering up something that is deserving of their time and affection and dollars for tickets. So we consider all those things. That means we aren't being flighty with them. It's not on the table. It's in the warming drawer.”
See more on Divorce in the video below.
*Caution: Spoilers ahead!*
The Dancing With the Stars race got even tighter on Tuesday after season 23's first double elimination that saw two stars get the axe in one night.
First on the chopping block was GRAMMY winner Babyface and his partner, Allison Holker, who were sent home a night after performing a tango set to The Beatles’ "Come Together," which earned them one of their lowest scores of the season.
"I look at it this way: I got a chance to come out and dance for my mom, and my mom is proud today that I even came here," the 57-year-old R&B icon told hosts Tom Bergeron and Erin Andrews after getting eliminated. "It's been an amazing experience."
PHOTOS: 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 23: See the Hot Pairings!
At the end of the night, the final elimination came down to IndyCar driver James Hinchcliffe, singer Jana Kramer and rapper/home improvement expert Vanilla Ice.
In what had to be one of DWTS’ least-suspenseful eliminations ever, the 48-year-old "Ice Ice Baby" singer and his partner, Witney Carson, were sent packing.
Unlike Babyface, Ice was voted off the show one night after he and Carson delivered a rousing Viennese Waltz that got them their best scores yet. But it wasn't enough to save him after weeks of less-than-stellar routines.
"This was a magic experience. I love it," Ice shared with Andrews at the close of the show. "Dancing makes you happy and this is just a happy experience. I'm honored to be here."
The double elimination wasn't the only major highlight of the night -- DWTS pros Sasha Farber and Emma Slater got engaged in the middle of the show, when Farber popped the question in front of the whole audience! Check out the video below to hear more.
Faith Hill and Tim McGraw are headed out on the road!

This marks Hill and McGraw’s third joint tour and the 10th anniversary of their last Soul2Soul II Tour in 2006. The couple's first Soul2Soul Tour took place in 2000. Their new 2017 nationwide trek also marks Hill’s first tour since 2007.
It’s going to be a busy year for Hill and McGraw, who will be pulling double duty as key advisers on season 11 of The Voice and will celebrate their 20th wedding anniversary on Oct. 6.

"I think having the perspective of performing live in many different venues, from clubs to stadiums, will help us in working with the Voice artists this season,” said Hill of joining The Voice. “It’s important that they be able to connect with their audience.”


Naomi Watts is returning the favor.
Days after her ex, Liev Schreiber, wished her a happy birthday -- and only a week after they announced their split -- the actress celebrated Schreiber’s 49th birthday with an Instagram post of her own.
"Happy Birthday to this one!!@lievschreiber 🎂🎈🌻," she captioned an adorable family pic of Schreiber wearing a sweet handprint tee while holding their two sons, 9-year-old Sasha and 7-year-old Sammy.
Though the former couple announced their split last Monday, there's clearly still a lot of love between them.
In addition to Schreiber's sweet birthday message to Watts last week, the pair's Instagram accounts are filled with family photos.
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple. It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship," Watts and Schreiber told ET in a joint statement last week. 
"While we appreciate your curiosity and support, we ask the press to be mindful of our children and respect their right to privacy,” the former couple added.
See more on their split in the video below.
Wendy Kaufman, perhaps best known as the spokesperson for Snapple in the '90s, revealed on Sunday's episode of Oprah: Where Are They Now? that landing the job of a lifetime helped her remain sober after battling a drug addiction.
Many delighted in Kaufman's humorous Snapple commercials, but what few knew about the charismatic pitchwoman is that she struggled with an addiction to cocaine for nearly a decade.
PICS: Shocking Celebrity Weight-Loss Transformations
"I started to do cocaine in 1980," Kaufman shared during the episode. "By 1989, I could press my cheek and blood would come out of my nose."
Kaufman said she turned to drugs to cope with being overweight, but came to realize that she was destroying her health.
"I was so sick that it really did bring me to my knees," Kaufman recalled. "I said to God on my knees, hysterical and crying, 'Either kill me or please help me get well. I cannot live like this for one second longer.'"
After becoming the Snapple Lady in 1991, Kaufman kicked her habit for good.
"The addiction was great because in a way it made me really look at myself and reevaluate everything," she said.
Prior to her 17-year stint as the face of Snapple, Kaufman was an employee for the company, working in the order department. After being tapped for fame, she went on to appear on Celebrity Fit Club, where she admitted to a different kind of addiction.
"I do a ton of emotional eating," Kaufman told ET during an interview in 2004. "I do find a great solace in a bag of cheese doodles."
At the time, Kaufman's goal was to slim down while at the same time accepting her weaknesses.
"That is why people enjoy knowing me I guess, because I am so real to them," she told ET. "I'm not perfect."
Dancing With the Stars' live results show on Tuesday was special for more than just its double elimination -- pro dancer Sasha Farber proposed to girlfriend and fellow dancer Emma Slater!
Slater and her season 23 partner, former Texas governor Rick Perry, were sent home last week, but the 27-year-old dancer was on set to perform a contemporary dance with her boyfriend as the show came back from a commercial break.
However, Slater had no idea that the whole routine was set up to give Farber the chance to pull off an amazing public proposal.
Bergeron joined the couple on stage and started with his usual show banter. "First of all, you guys have great chemistry," the host began. "And Sasha, I've always thought you had the potential to actually host. So I'm going to give the show over to you."
For a second, Slater was clearly confused, but the smile on Farber's face made things very clear, very quickly, and she was already tearing up before her boyfriend had a chance to speak.
"I've been meaning to do this for such a long time," Farber said, as he got down on one knee and pulled out a ring. "I love you so, so much."
Slater could barely contain her excitement, and as she said yes, streamers exploded from the ceiling and the crowd erupted in cheers.
PHOTOS: PDA Alert! Celebrity Couples Who Can't Keep Their Hands Off Each Other
Farber's friend and co-star, Derek Hough, was the first to run out on stage to hug the excited couple, and was soon joined by all their fellow dancers and contestants who came together for a giant group hug in front of a giant wall of screens that read, "She said YES!"
"Sahsa just proposed to Emma, and thankfully she said yes! Because we didn't have a graphic for the other option," Bergeron joked.
Slater later showed off the stunning ring in a pic posted to the DWTS Instagram, as her new fiance gave her a sweet kiss on the cheek.
Congrats to the happy couple!
Farber and Slater, who have been dating for over five years, moved into a cottage-style home in Los Angeles in August, and they recently invited ET along for an epic house tour. Check out the video below to see their awesome home-sweet-home.
Justin Bieber has a fan in Britney Spears.
The 34-year-old singer appeared on the UK-based talk show Loose Women on Tuesday, where she was challenged to a game of "Snog, Marry, Avoid" -- with Bieber, Madonna and Simon Cowell.
While at first visibly disgusted by her choices, Brit Brit seemed to make her mind up pretty quickly.
"Justin Bieber marry," she yelled out, before changing her mind and going for the smooch.
"Okay, so who would you marry?" one of the show's hosts followed up.
"None," the singer answered, choosing to avoid both Cowell and Madonna.
Watch Spears’ lighting round below, where she also reveals she's a fan of the dad bod and has a crush on Prince Harry.
Spears might be down to snog Bieber, but that doesn't mean she's looking for a relationship anytime soon.
"I'm not [dating]," she announced earlier in the show. "I'm happily single right now."

But when it comes to her perfect date, Spears is pretty much up for anything. "I like spur of the moment things. I don't like it to be so planned, like, 'Let's go on a date.' I like just things to happen," she said.
The pop star has been an open book about her dating life recently, dishing more on the subject to Lorraine Kelly on Britain's ITV just last week.
"It's okay to be single!" she insisted. "I'm in a really good place right now. I'm loving myself every day and learning who I am. It's awakening, it's cool."
"I like my 30s way more than my 20s," she added. "My 20s were horrible! [Being] in my teens was fun, but I like my 30s."
See more in the video below.
NCIS is paying tribute to one of its leaders.
Less than a week after showrunner Gary Glasberg died unexpectedly, the long-running CBS procedural honored his legacy with a sweet end card following Tuesday’s episode.

“Gary was our rock, our cheerleader, our team captain. He inspired us with his leadership, his creative instincts and keen insight,” the message read. “NCIS will not be the same without him, and each of us will miss his smiling face and unwavering humor, which lifted us every day.”
Glasberg, who also created NCIS: New Orleans, died in his sleep on Sept. 28 in Los Angeles. He was 50.
Former NCIS star Michael Weatherly expressed his sympathy to Glasberg’s family last week. “What sad a day this is,” the Bull star wrote on Twitter. “Gary Glasberg was a gentle man and gentleman loved by so many people. Send your love to his family.”

Longtime star Pauley Perrette wrote that their “hearts are collectively broken.” “In shock and sadness,” she tweeted. “There are no words.”
In 2009, Glasberg joined NCIS as co-executive producer and writer, and in 2011, he was promoted to showrunner of the No. 1 scripted TV drama. In 2014, he launched the successful franchise spinoff, NCIS: New Orleans.
Glasberg is survived by his wife and sons, as well as his father, Edwin Glasberg, and his sister, Mindy Glasberg. A memorial service is being planned for October.

Millie Bobby Brown doesn't need to be dealing with online hate!
The Stranger Things star opened up in a recent interview with the U.K. magazine, So It Goes, about how her family helps her filter the social media critics out of her life.
MORE: 'Stranger Things' Star Millie Bobby Brown Reveals Her Biggest Fears, Talks New Friendship With Maddie Ziegler
"There are positive things that come of social media, as well as negative," she told the publication (via Refinery29). "I don’t look at negative comments because my parents and family don’t let me. My big sister controls my Instagram and my big brother controls my Twitter."
Luckily for the 12-year-old actress -- who expertly plays the badass "Eleven" on the Netflix series -- haters haven't been a very big issue anyway.
"We’re obviously lucky in that I think everything about the show has been basically really positive!" she noted.
ET caught up with Millie at this year's Emmys, where she talked about Stranger Things' breakout success and uncertainty for her character in the upcoming second season.
Watch the video below to see what she said!
Lindsay Arnold and Calvin Johnson wowed the judges on Monday's Dancing with the Stars, performing their Charleston set to Cirque Du Soleil's Cabinet of Curiosities, and receiving a score of 23 out of 30.
However, that wasn't the only highlight of the evening, Lindsay chatted with ET about Amber Rose and Julianne Hough's apologies to one another over their recent "misunderstanding," regarding comments Hough made about Rose's performance last week that led the model to feel "body shamed."
ET: We saw Julianne Hough and Amber Rose hash out their feud after Amber's performance, what did you think of their responses?
I think that they handled it very well. I think that if Amber had something on her mind like that the best thing she could have done is confirm it -- not sit on it, not let it bother her all season. I think it was really great that she spoke her mind and tried to figure it out and I think Julianne's response was great. As a judge, you're judging the dancing and sometimes dancing makes you feel uncomfortable if it doesn't look like they're doing it quite right or doesn't look like they're comfortable doing the moves -- that's what I think she meant. I'm glad they figured that out because no one wants hard feelings on the show…nobody wants that. We want to feel like we're all a family and we're all supporting each other and that includes the judges. It's really important that the celebs feel that way, that the judges are on their side and help them be a better dancer. So I'm glad they hashed it out and really talked about it and I think they handled it in a great way. It wasn't a fight, it was just two women speaking their minds and getting to a result.
Cirque Du Soleil and the Charleston -- how fun and exciting! How do you feel about last night's performance?
I really challenged [Calvin] this week, I gave him a harder dance than he's ever had to do and not even just a little bit harder. I asked a lot of him and he pulled it off so well. I was really impressed. The things that he was doing, the lifts that we did, I have never done even with another professional. I was really proud of the way he handled the challenges that I put towards him this week and he really came out on top.
Last time we spoke, you mentioned incorporating some lifts for Calvin in the choreography and by the looks of last night's dance -- success achieved! How do you think he did with the lifts challenge?
When you're lifting a person it's different -- you have to take care of them, you have to pay attention. It's not just lifting weights where you can just chuck them up and drop them. You have to be so attentive to what you are doing. He did so well making sure that I felt comfortable. We had a few close calls -- that's the thing, with lifting, comes risks -- but come show time we were able to nail it perfectly.
During the rehearsal package we got a glimpse of those "close calls" and saw you take quite a fall off Calvin’s arms -- what were your thoughts in that?
I know it's terrifying! I mean, in that moment, I had to suck it [up] but I was like, "Don't die, don't die!" It's scary because when you're up in the air and you're upside down you don't know when you land, what's gonna hit first. Lucky, I landed on my feet somehow and everything was OK. I think after that it clicked in his head even more how important it is that we're consistent and careful with everything we do, because there is a lot at stake. We really had to be careful all week.
Did you have any doubts that you could pull this off?
I wouldn't say doubts, but I was definitely the most nervous for that dance than I have been this whole season, just because there was a lot more at stake than normal. I mean before he could maybe miss a step, but with the lift in hand there's a possibility that I could fall, that something could go very wrong. I was very nervous but once we made it past that first lift in the dance…you watch my face after I land that first lift. I was like, "Oh my gosh!" Just a sigh of relief. The rest of it was just so much fun and I was just so proud of him.
Looks like rehearsals were intense! We saw an Instagram pic with you and Calvin hanging off a hula hoop.
Calvin and I were rehearsing in Detroit and the dance studio we were at has an aerial room, so they have silk [and] they have hula hoops hanging from the ceiling. Calvin and I were like, "We want to try!" so we actually hooked them up and tried it. Funny thing is, Calvin got on the hula hoop and I think he might have been too heavy for it [laughs]. He latched the screw in so much that we couldn't even undo it. It was just funny because we got a little excited with all the toys we saw in the dance studio.
MORE: Laurie Hernandez Nails Epic Michael Jackson Routine on 'DWTS,' Earns Season's First Perfect Score
Looks like there's some competition in the air, Laurie Hernandez and Val Chmerkovskiy received the first perfect score for this season last night. How do you plan to keep moving forward on the leaderboard?
I was so happy for them! It is a competition and we want to beat the other competitors, but we're a family and we are all so happy for each other. It's so exciting to see those numbers go up because we know how hard everybody works. We are all in the same boat; we are all working so hard every single week to get the best product -- to see that pay off for them that well so early in the competition is really impressive. I think it inspires Calvin and I because we want those and for him, I don't think he realizes that's a thing week after week. He's like, "Are 10s even real? Have you ever seen anybody get 10s?" and I'm like "Yes! You'll see it, I will get you 10s!" I promised him this week -- I will get you 10s, we will get there. I'm really looking forward to the week where we prove that we deserve those 10s.
You've talked about Calvin not being thrilled to wear the "glitzy get-ups" -- is he more accepting of it now? Where does he stand?
So funny you say that, because I can't even remember that Calvin -- he is so down for everything now. He has completely dived into this competition and every aspect of it. He's totally cool with getting into character and playing characters that aren't himself and I love that! That shows how dedicated he is to this and also shows he's just the kind of person who's gonna give 150 percent into everything that he does. I couldn't ask for more as a teacher. It also comes from a level of trust. I mean, he trusts that I'm gonna take him where he needs to be, so he does what I ask and I'm really grateful for that.
The DWTS pro will be chatting with ET every Tuesday throughout the competition, and taking over ET's Snapchat (@etnow) each Monday.
Girls producer Jenni Konner has revealed that Lena Dunham recently encountered “inappropriate” and “hideous” behavior from a TV executive after completing work on the HBO series.
In Tuesday’s edition of the Lenny Letter, a newsletter started by the Girls co-creators, Konner details how Dunham was “cornered,” shown an indecent photo, then asked to convince a fellow actress to strip on-screen.
“The director asked Lena to have dinner alone the following night with an actress on the show he works on,” writes Konner. “Not because he thought they should meet, but because he wanted Lena to persuade the actress to ‘show her tits, or at least some vag’ on TV. Surely Lena could make a compelling argument. After all, he continued, ‘You would show anything. Even your a**hole.'”
The Girls crew were out for a meal when they encountered the unnamed producer/director, who pulled Dunham aside within minutes.  According to Konner, he then showed the actress an image on his phone of “a mutual friend with a c**k next to her face, ostensibly a still from his TV show, but shown at a completely inappropriate time.”
While the man’s associates attempted to excuse his actions because he was allegedly drunk, Konner called out the double standards for men and women when it comes to such behavior. “When women get drunk, they are asking for it. When men get drunk, they don’t mean it.”
Konner added that such incidents are all too common for Dunham and she hopes speaking out will help fight such sexism in Hollywood.
“Our voices are our superpower. The only thing standing between men and outdated, hideous behavior is their ability to get away with it,” continued Konner.
See more on Dunham in the video below.
Courtney Love and Frances Bean Cobain have officially hit the City of Light!
Weeks after taking London by storm, the mother-daughter duo have set their sights on Paris -- and made quite the entrance. 
Love and Cobain put on their best Chanel as they attended the designer label's Spring/Summer 2017 fashion show on Tuesday, posing arm-in-arm for photographers on the futuristic red carpet.
Cobain stunned in a multi-colored ensemble with embellished top, accessorizing her look with bold rings and a gold Chanel purse.
Love, meanwhile, opted for black-and-white drop-waist dress and adorable Chanel booties.
While the two couldn't help but boast about the fashion show on social media, they were equally as excited to put on their best pouts -- and matching outfits -- for the Givenchy show during Paris Fashion Week on Sunday.
The formerly estranged pair couldn't be closer since Cobain filed for divorce from husband Isaiah Silva earlier this year.
See more on their split in the video below.
Serena Williams is in a very good place.
The 35-year-old tennis champion is giving us all sorts of body goals on the cover of The Fader's November issue. Looking fierce in an orange tank top and white bikini bottom, Williams tells the magazine she’s all about loving herself and avoiding all the haters.

"People have been talking about my body for a really long time. Good things, great things, negative things," she explains. "People are entitled to have their opinions, but what matters most is how I feel about me, because that's what's going to permeate the room I'm sitting in."
"It's going to make you feel that I have confidence in myself whether you like me or not, or you like the way I look or not, if I do," she adds. "That's the message I try to tell other women and in particular young girls. You have to love you, and if you don't love you no one else will. And if you do love you, people will see that and they'll love you too."
Earlier this year, the tennis star opened up to the U.K.'s The Times magazine about finding inner peace, despite always feeling like she didn’t fit in.
"I know I get flack for my physique, and it has been a struggle to love my body, but now curves are in and I'm happier in myself," she told the publication in January. "When I was younger, it was hard seeing all these thin athletes when I had more muscular curves and was big-busted."
And while it's been a long struggle for Williams, she's now all about embracing her body and isn't afraid to show off her curves on social media.  
Watch the video below to see a young Serena tell ET the three secrets to being a winner.
Her new show may be called Divorce, but Sarah Jessica Parker and her husband, Matthew Broderick, look like the epitome of wedded bliss.
The 51-year-old actress kept close to her man while walking the red carpet at the HBO comedy's New York premiere at the SVA Theater on Tuesday, at one point placing her hand sweetly on his belly.
EXCLUSIVE: Sarah Jessica Parker Stands by Her Convictions on 'Divorce'
While the longtime couple -- they've been married since 1997 -- were total #RelationshipGoals, it was Parker's gorgeous dress that stood out the most.
From the pretty lace detailing and gem-encrusted bodice to the tea-length hemline and pointy bronze pumps, the plum ensemble was SJP style at its finest. The Sex and the City alum even swept her hair up, letting the Dolce & Gabbana gown truly be the main focal point of her look.
Plus, we couldn't be happier to see that wide smile on SJP!
Broderick, 54, looked quite handsome himself, sporting a navy suit and slate blue tie -- which matched the carpet and backdrop, no less!
ET recently sat down with Parker to talk about her new show, and she explained that Divorce isn't SATC 2.0. The actress plays Frances, an executive recruiter and mother of two that Parker says "is different" from Carrie Bradshaw.
"She has a different relationship to men, to romance, to money, to New York City, to children, to commitments," she explained.
That being said, a SATC reunion isn't out of the question. Find out what Parker had to say about that scenario fans are dreaming about in the video below.
Happy birthday, Ashlee Simpson!
The "Pieces of Me" singer turned 32 on Monday, alongside a little ice cream, a big slice of red velvet cake, and her adorable children.
Evan Ross took to Instagram to share a sweet pic of his wife's special day, as she blew out a huge candle with 7-year-old son Bronx and 1-year-old daughter Jagger on either side of her.
"Happy Birthday to the Most incredible Lady. I love you with all my heart baby. Im so lucky to have you!! Your My everything!! @ashleesimpsonross !!!!!!" he captioned the cute family pic.
It looks like Ashlee celebrated with her sister, Jessica -- and Balenciaga -- on Tuesday.
"A day of the life in Balenciaga @ashleesimpsonross 💫," the 36-year-old designer wrote alongside a silly shot of Ashlee zipped up in a giant bag.
The Simpson sisters are as close as ever, and their tight relationship seems to have rubbed off on their children.
Earlier this year, Jessica shared an adorable snap of her 2-year-old son, Ace, cradling Ashlee's daughter-- and even giving her a sweet kiss on the head.
See the sweet shot in the video below.

EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Thought She Was Going to Die' During Paris Robbery, Cried and Begged for Her Life, Source Says
After initially showing his support on Instagram, fashion designer and good friend of the Kardashians, Karl Lagerfeld, shared different feelings about the reality star with the Associated Press during Paris Fashion Week.
"You cannot display your wealth then be surprised that some people want to share it," the Chanel creative director said. "I don't understand why she was in a hotel with no security. If you are that famous and you put all your jewelry on [social media], you go to hotels where nobody can come near to the room."
Two masked men held the 35-year-old at gunpoint and reportedly stole over $10 million worth of jewelry, including one ring estimated to be worth $4.5 million. A source tells ET that the ring was, in fact, the Lorraine Schwartz diamond accessory that husband Kanye West recently purchased for Kim. In addition, several other pieces were apparently stolen, along with a cell phone.
Another source close to the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star tells ET that Kim is "absolutely traumatized" by the burglary and hasn't been sleeping since the incident. "[Kim] was half asleep and was woken up so abruptly," the source explains. "She was on little sleep to begin with since getting to Paris. She still hasn’t fully been able to comprehend what happened."
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Absolutely Traumatized' After Paris Robbery, Not 'Fully Able to Comprehend What Happened'
Kim returned to New York City Monday morning to be with Kanye, who abruptly ended his performance at a music festival in Queens on Sunday night following the news. The 39-year-old rapper has also rescheduled several tour dates in the wake of the Paris incident.
EXCLUSIVE: What Happens to Kim Kardashian's Stolen Jewelry Now?
While Kim is still recovering from the trauma, the future of the stolen jewelry remains uncertain. "Even if [the diamonds are] recut, there's always a good chance that someone would recognize the fact that they're so unusual that they should be investigated," jewelry appraiser Joseph DuMouchelle tells ET.
Watch the video below for more on Kim's terrifying encounter with the two gunmen.
Sure, she's got a handsome actor dad in Johnny Depp and lovely model mom in Vanessa Paradis, but Lily-Rose Depp is a star all her own.
The 17-year-old model-actress has been proving that over and over again during Paris Fashion Week, but it was an appearance at the Chanel Spring/Summer 2017 show on Tuesday that really made heads turn.
Lily-Rose stood in front of the "Chanel Data Center," showing off her crazy long legs in white shorts and black T-strap heels. The focal point of her look, however, was a navy blue button-up cardigan covered in colorful Tetris-like patterns and paired up top with nothing but a long chain necklace, both from the fashion house. She finished off the look with chunky pastel-and-gold hoops, shiny maroon lips, and black nails.
You would've thought Lily-Rose -- the face of Chanel -- was one of the runway models, as she pulled off plenty of signature pouts and poses. There was even one sideways glance that made her look just like Johnny.
The beauty look was a definitive change for the Yoga Hoser star, who in the past has held on tight to textured, next-day hair. Though her beloved smudged liner stayed put, Lily-Rose rocked a shiny, straight center-part 'do and later revealed via Instagram that it was makeup artist Christophe Danchaud who gave her that "8 am red lip."
Though Lily-Rose led the front-row set, there were plenty of famous faces at the Chanel show to keep her company, including Courtney Love and her daughter, Frances Bean Cobain; Anna Wintour; Steve Harvey and his wife, Marjorie Bridges-Woods;  Kristen Stewart's ex, singer Stephanie "Soko" Sokolinski; Carla Bruni; and Usher, who seemed quite impressed by the futuristic set.
PHOTOS: Marion Cotillard Debuts Baby Bump at Paris Fashion Week
If you thought the runway was futuristic, the models took Karl Lagerfeld's vision one step further, walking in traditional tweed pieces accessorized with robot masks and boots.
Very Stormtrooper, no?
It's hard to imagine a better modern muse for Chanel than Lily-Rose, who has consistently slayed in the fashion department during events for the brand. In fact, she looked amazing at a dinner she hosted in West Hollywood, California, for the new Chanel No. 5 perfume last month, donning a textured cropped jacket (with nothing under it again, natch), black leather skinnies, gold accessories.
MORE: Lily-Rose Depp Stars in Stunning New Chanel Ads
Never lose that brood, Lily-Rose!
Last fall, Johnny gushed to ET about his daughter’s blossoming modeling career. Find out what he had to say in the video below.
Demi Lovato has vowed to take a break from showbiz in the wake of backlash over comments she made about Taylor Swift and her squad in a new interview with Glamour magazine.
The 24-year-old “Give Your Heart a Break” singer took to social media on Tuesday to announce her plan to retract from the public eye.
“So excited for 2017,” she wrote. “Taking a break from music and the spotlight.. I am not meant for this business and the media.”
The news caused distress among fans, who questioned whether she intends to return to music following said break.
“Dunno. It doesn’t feel worth it anymore. I’d rather do charity work tbh,” Lovato responded to one fan.
In the Glamour interview, Lovato throws shade at Swift and her famous friends for portraying a false image of what “normal” women should look like.
“I think in certain situations, certain people could be doing more if they’re going to claim that as part of their brand. To be honest, and this will probably get me in trouble, I don’t see anybody in any sort of squad that has a normal body,” Lovato says, referencing Swift’s celeb besties, who include supermodels Gigi Hadid, Cara Delevingne and Karlie Kloss.
“It’s kind of this false image of what people should look like,” she added. “And what they should be like, and it’s not real…. It’s not realistic.”
Lovato has since told her followers she’s not sorry for the comments.
"I get asked questions. I answer them. Sue me," the 24-year-old singer tweeted. "Also, don't forget that words can be taken out of context when doing interviews."
Demi Lovato ‘Not Apologizing’ for Comments Made About Taylor Swift
Before she bows out of music and fame, Lovato has tour dates in Mexico and Brazil and a fan cruise in St. Maarten to take care of. No word yet on what her planned break means for a scheduled performance at RedFestDXB in Dubai in February.
See more on the controversial interview below.
Kelly Clarkson has opened up to ET about how becoming a parent has given her a newfound sense of empowerment.
The 34-year-old American Idol winner is proud mom to 2-year-old daughter, River Rose, and 5-month-old son, Remy, as well as stepmom to her husband Brandon Blackstock’s two children from a previous marriage.
EXCLUSIVE: Kelly Clarkson Reacts to Kim Kardashian Robbery
“It sounds so cheesy, but I feel way more confident, way more empowered and way more like I've got this,” the singer told ET’s Jennifer Peros about having her own children. “You just have so much going on all the time, especially because I’m a working mom -- so many moving parts and so much navigation -- that I just feel like I can do anything. I feel like the head of the village.”
The Texas native admitted she does have days when everything on her plate becomes overwhelming and credited her husband for juggling responsibilities with her. “We’re definitely a team.”
Clarkson added that having children also has made her more confident with her career.
“Having kids cuts out all the bullsh*t in the sense that I don't have time to do stuff I don't want to do anymore,” she said. “I don't have time to make you feel like it was your idea. I just don't have time for it anymore, so it definitely cuts through the bullsh*t and you just go straight for what you want.”
With no plans for more children -- “shop is closed and things have been taken out” -- Clarkson is relishing having two littlies to take care of and says her 30s have been notably more enjoyable than her 20s.
“I hated my 20s -- don’t miss them at all,” she confessed. “Turning 30, I felt totally different. We have a 15-year-old and I always tell her, ‘Do not get married until you're 30 because you change so much and the chances that you're gonna change together -- that's statistically not going with you.’”
“Age has never bothered me,” she continued. “Life just gets better every day. I feel like we're moving in a great way.”
As for what’s in store on the career front, as well as working on a new album, Clarkson has just released her first picture book, River Rose and the Magical Lullaby.
The story was inspired by her experience with motherhood.
“[Being a mom is] very inspiring,” she says. “You don't think it's going to be because you're so busy [but] it’s such a different world becoming a mother. It sounds like such a tool statement that every mom says, but it’s just a different thing to mold a child's life.”
“You feel very responsible, but there’s also the magical elements that you forget because you're an adult,” she added. “You forget how simple things like lights and fans can be so magical to them, so we definitely tried to capture that in the book.”
See what Clarkson had to say about Kim Kardashian’s recent robbery in the video below.
Caitlyn Jenner is glad that Kim Kardashian West is OK.
The I Am Cait star broke her silence after Kim was robbed at gunpoint Sunday night of approximately $11.2 million worth of jewelry.
"Love my girl! After hearing the full story, I'm so thankful she's okay," the 66-year-old former Olympian shared on Instagram. "It's a reminder for us all to be careful in the uncertainty of this world."
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Absolutely Traumatized' After Paris Robbery
Caitlyn was with daughter Kylie Jenner at a car show on Sunday, and shared a picture from the event on Monday, writing, "Had so much fun with Kylie at Sunday's car show. Here we are with my friend Jeff Dunham's original."
Meanwhile, Kim's family and loved ones been rallying behind her after the scary incident in a luxury Parisian apartment.
EXCLUSIVE: How Kim Kardashian and Kanye West Are 'Reassessing Their Security' After Paris Robbery
On Monday, the 35-year-old reality star was reunited with husband Kanye West, and "spent the entire day" with the couple's children, 3-year-old North, and 9-month-old Saint.
A source close to Kim tells ET she's "still in shock" after the robbery and "absolutely traumatized."
"She's very emotional. The scariest part for her throughout this experience is the fact that it could have been a lot worse, and she couldn’t imagine what that would have been like for her children," says the source. "The kids have no idea what’s going on, thankfully."
Watch the video below for more.
Kim Kardashian West's hairstylist is speaking out.
Jen Atkin, who was in Paris with the reality star on the trip where she was robbed at gunpoint inside a luxury apartment, shared several videos to Snapchat on Wednesday addressing the incident and imploring her fans to be safe.
"I'm still a bit in shock, and I hate when bad things happen to good people.  Especially people that I love," she shared. "I'm so grateful nobody was hurt."
Atkin added that the robbery has been a "huge wake-up call for me with social media," adding, "We need to be very careful about geotagged locations ... And posting live, so that people know your whereabouts."
"No matter who you are, you just need to be very cautious," she advised. "And I just hope and pray that everybody is safe... I don't want bad people to take our joy away from us, and our ability to live."
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Absolutely Traumatized' After Paris Robbery, Not 'Fully Able to Comprehend What Happened'
Meanwhile, a source close to Kim -- who reunited with her family in New York City on Monday -- tells ET she is "absolutely traumatized" after the terrifying incident.
"When the incident happened, [Kim] was half asleep and was woken up so abruptly," the source adds. "She picked up her cell but wasn't able to call [bodyguard] Pascal [Duvier] in time before one of the guys grabbed it out of her hand and she realized what was happening. It was absolutely horrific."
Kim also "didn't get a good look at any of the guys' faces," according to the source. "None of them spoke English, so she couldn't communicate with them ... All she kept saying over and over is 'I have kids. Take anything you want. Please don't kill me. Please don't kill me.'"
Additionally, the future remains uncertain for the estimated $11.2 million in jewelry that was stolen in the robbery.
EXCLUSIVE: What Happens to Kim Kardashian's Stolen Jewelry Now?
Lance Bass spoke to ET after Kim's robbery incident, saying in a Facebook Live interview that after the robbery, Kim's mom Kris Jenner went into "mom mode, big time."
Watch the interview below for more.
One of Kim Kardashian and Kanye West's former bodyguards, Steve Stanulis, opened up to ET about the recent robbery in Paris, revealing that he believes the assailants were tipped off.
Taking into account the slim window of opportunity (there were only two five-hour blocks of time where Kardashian was alone) and the swift way they snatched up the jewels, Stanulis believes that the robbers must have had inside information.
"To know the main security guy, who's a beast, is gone and you can walk right in with five guys and nobody will have the ability to stop you ... tie her up ... they know where the jewelry is," Stanulis tells ET. "It's not like they came in and were ransacking the place. They knew exactly where everything was. And then they leave on a bike, dressed as cops. Nobody says anything. It's either someone that works for them or that works for the hotel that's privy to their itinerary."
Kardashian's main bodyguard, Pascal Duvier, was with Kim's sisters Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner at the time of the robbery.
Duvier, who reportedly stands 6-foot-4-inches tall and weighs 264 pounds, has been working with Kim and Kanye since 2013, and was the man who took down infamous prankster Vitalii Seduik after he lunged at Kim last Thursday.  According to his LinkedIn account, Duvier's client list also includes The Black Eyed Peas, Ciara, David Guetta and Frank Ocean. He has reportedly vowed to track down the men responsible for the robbery in a personal blog entry cited by the Daily Mail.
Meanwhile, French police are looking for surveillance video.
"I think there was a getaway car maybe a block or two away at the most," Stanulis believes. "Those guys divvied that up and were out of the country before that night was over."
Stanulis is the owner of the private security firm, Silver Shield Investigations.
According to French Judicial sources who spoke with CBS Radio News, five people dressed as law enforcement officers went to where Kim was staying and got access to her room and robbed her. After tying her up and pointing a gun at her, the individuals robbed Kim of a reported $10 million worth of jewelry.
Now the famous family is trying to figure out how to prevent an incident like this from ever happening again.
PHOTOS: Kanye West Rushes to Kim Kardashian's Side as She Returns to New York After Paris Robbery
A source tells ET that Kim and Kanye are "reassessing their security detail."
"Their immediate need is undercover security -- people who will be with them but stepped back to the side," the source adds. "There are plans for many other things they'll change as well."
Watch the video for more.
Kim Kardashian may be safe and sound in New York City recovering from the traumatic Paris robbery at gunpoint on Sunday night, but the future of her stolen jewelry -- about 10 pieces worth an estimated $11.2 million total -- is still uncertain.
The 35-year-old reality star  wasn't shy about flaunting her jewelry -- especially the rare $4.5 million 20 karat Lorraine Schwartz diamond engagement ring from husband Kanye West -- and jewelry appraiser Joseph DuMouchelle tells ET that it's precisely the rarity and quality of her pieces that will make them hard to re-sell.
"These diamonds would be almost impossible to sell," he said. "It's not that they couldn't be sold, but they're challenging because of the size, the rarity, and because of the quality."
"They're D-flawless and they're a type IIa diamond," he explained. "In terms of D, it's the best color there is, flawless means they’re the best clarity there is, but when they're type IIa -- less than one percent of diamonds are a type IIa -- they're extremely rare."
Because of the recognizability of Kardashians' jewelry, thieves might have to recut the stones in order to sell them  -- but they'd lose value and risk damaging the stones.
"If these come up and they resurface down the road, even if they're recut, there's always a good chance that someone would recognize the fact that they're so unusual that they should be investigated," DuMouchelle posited.
"[If] these stones were recut, they would probably have to be resubmitted to a major lab for a lab report to state that they are again D flawless and type IIa. Most anyone who would want to handle those in the future would want documentation," he continued. "Labs involved in documenting stones will immediately think, 'We need some sort of paper trail.'"
In turn, DuMouchelle says that mainstream jewelers with good reputations will likely stay far away from these jewels, so it's possible the thieves may have already arranged a buyer.
"They may have a buyer in mind -- a specific buyer who may have asked them to take the items, so they may never see the light of day," he said. "You would think that somebody who went through this type of effort and this type of organization would already have a source."
The idea of a pre-determined buyer may not be too far off, as a source tells ET that the Kardashian family is convinced the robbery was an inside job, given Kim's incredibly tight schedule.
See more on the robbery in the video below.
Natasha Bure made her big debut on The Voice on Monday night, when she charmed coach Adam Levine, who quickly turned his chair for her.
ET spoke with the 18-year-old daughter of Fuller House actress Candace Cameron Bure and former Russian hockey player Valeri Bure on Tuesday, when she revealed the advice she got from her famous mama before her first performance.
"She was like, 'Be yourself, be who you are, and do the best you can,'" Natasha shares with ET's Sophie Schillaci. "And I think that would be any mom's advice, you know -- good old be yourself."
Of course, Natasha says she's learned plenty from 40-year-old Candace, specifically when it comes to growing up in the spotlight.
"I have learned a lot by watching her more than her telling me," Natasha explains. "I think she is a great example of young women who are in the industry, and she worked since she was five years old, and now she is a grown woman and has a family and is just doing amazing for herself. And she didn't fall off the wagon like a lot of other child stars have, which is a great testament to who she is."
"But a lot of the advice is just to work hard and be humble," she continues. "I think she’s definitely worked her hardest, and stood her ground and given the glory to God and stayed by her family, so I think that’s something she’s more shown me, than maybe told me."
Natasha admits she was definitely nervous before her blind audition, when she sang a soulful rendition of the Elvis classic, "Can't Help Falling In Love."
"I did not handle [pre-show nerves] well," Natasha admits. "I was just ... I am an 18 year-old girl -- I am very emotional."
Natasha recalls not being able to contain her emotions when she saw her mother walking to where the families watch the auditions on The Voice.
"I was trying to calm myself and let those nerves go away, and I was pretty much good, and then I was waiting to go on -- they said, 'Five minutes before you go on,' and I turned around and I saw my mom walking to where the families wait and watch the audition," she reveals. "I wish I never saw her, like, walk past me. I was balling, I was crying. I was so nervous. I mean it was good. It all ended up well in the end."
Natasha ended up getting picked by Adam Levine, and she couldn't be happier.
"I was really hoping he would turn for me. It was very surreal," Natasha says. "Adam's great. He's so nice, he's very straightforward. He's given me a lot of tips about just being in the zone and staying [there], having the mind set of just going out there and singing, and singing with emotion and passion."
"I think sometimes I tend to get in my head because of my nerves, and so that's something we've definitely focused on moving forward," she adds. "And all of his advice has been really great."
Watch the video below for more on Natasha's debut on The Voice!
Notorious is getting juicier by the episode.

On Thursday’s episode, Julia confronts Levi (Ramon De Ocampo), the best friend and colleague of prime suspect Oscar Keaton (Kevin Zegers), the billionaire who is facing charges of murdering his wife Sarah (Dilshad Vadsaria).
In ET’s exclusive sneak peek, Julia interrogates Levi about why he sent her three incriminating photos, including one of Jake with Oscar’s wife in bed. When Levi fails to give her an answer, she threatens him, alleging that he’s trying to buy out his boss and pal Oscar. With Oscar currently behind bars, Levi’s the acting interim CEO of a multi-million dollar company. Surely, there’s incentive to get his friend out of the picture for good?

Recently, Notorious co-star Ryan Guzman dropped by ET’s Burbank studios to dish on his new ABC show, revealing that his character, production assistant Ryan Mills, is about to get some romance with Aimee Teegarden’s Ella Benjamin, a young lawyer.
"Aimee's up there, I think," Guzman said, contemplating the list of women he's kissed on screen.
When asked to confirm that he and Teegarden have a kissing scene at some point in the near future, Guzman admitted, "There's a kiss in there, for sure."
Notorious airs Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Leonardo DiCaprio is ready for a trip of a lifetime!
The Oscar winner joined President Barack Obama and scientist Dr. Katharine Hayhoe on Monday to talk about the importance of preserving our planet at this year's South by South Lawn (SXSL) held at the White House.
During the discussion, Hayhoe joked about the possibility of moving to Mars and those wanting to visit the red planet. "As long as we haven’t signed up for the trip to Mars—I don’t want to know if anyone has—I think you’re crazy," she said.
"I did," DiCaprio responded, offhand.
"I think he’ll acknowledge he's crazy," Obama added.
This isn't the first time DiCaprio has expressed interest in space travel. In 2014, he auctioned off an outer space trip for one very lucky, very rich person. The chance to see the stars with the Wolf of Wall Street star sold approximately for $1.5 million.
Earlier this year, Elon Musk, the founder and CEO of SpaceX, revealed that he intends to launch his first unmanned Mars mission in two years. But, he also warned that any person who signs up for a trip to Mars in the future has a slight chance of survival.
For now, DiCaprio can continue to enjoy his long bike rides around New York City.
Looks like Taylor Swift is headlining a big show before the big game!
As part of a multi-year deal with AT&T, the 1989 singer will perform DIRECTV's Super Saturday Night in Houston, Texas, the night before Super Bowl LI in February 2017.
"Thanks @ATT, this is gonna be fun," the 26-year-old artist tweeted on Tuesday.
EXCLUSIVE: Gigi Hadid Confirms Taylor Swift is Working on New Music
"We’re thrilled to reach a deal to bring Taylor and her unique talents to her fans and our customers in new and exclusive ways," AT&T Entertainment Group CEO John Stankey said in a statement. "And we’ve thrilled attendees during the Big Game weekend for the last 11 years with A-list parties and the hottest performing music artists around, so 2017 will be our very best."
Additionally, AT&T calls the event "one of many opportunities AT&T and Taylor Swift will team up for in the coming months."
MORE: The Top 7 Super Bowl Halftime Moments
Meanwhile, concert duties during the big game will be handled by Lady Gaga, who was recently announced as the headliner for the upcoming Super Bowl halftime show.
"It's a done deal! I can't wait to rock for YOU from Houston!" Gaga shared on Instagram last Friday.
So whichever teams are playing in Houston, at least we know the music is covered!
The Kardashian family is still "shaken" after Kim Kardashian West's frightening robbery in Paris, Lance Bass tells ET.
In a Facebook Live interview with ET's Brice Sander on Tuesday, the 37-year-old former *NSYNC member and close pal of Kim's mom, Kris Jenner, said he called the 60-year-old momager "immediately" after hearing of the frightening incident.
"Of course they're shaken," Lance says of the famous family. "That's just horrible, horrible. I mean, to be kidnapped and tied up and gagged, that is just awful. So, you wouldn't wish that on your worst enemy."
"I just hope they're able to recover, and I know Kim, that's going to scar you for life," he adds. "I just hope they have someone to talk to. That's just scary. I would never wish that upon anyone."
As for Kris' current mentality, Lance says his good friend went into "mom mode, big time."
"Thank God they were all together in France [for Paris Fashion Week], but yeah, that’s some scary, scary stuff," he says.
Lance, of course, isn't the only Kardashian family friend concerned for their well-being. ET also spoke to singer Babyface during Monday's taping of Dancing With the Stars, who sympathized with the reality stars over the scary incident. Babyface has been friends with the family for years, often going on double dates with Kris and her boyfriend, Corey Gamble.
"Kris is good," Babyface, 57, told ET's Nischelle Turner. "I mean, thank God nothing happened and nothing was major, but that's a frightening thing to go through and, you know, praying for them to get through this because when that kinda stuff happens, it stays with you."
"It's gonna be a minute before they can kinda really get over that," he mused. "I just pray for them and hope they get better."
A source close to the 35-year-old reality star told ET on Tuesday that Kim is "still in shock" after she was woken up and robbed at gunpoint inside the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France, on Sunday. According to the source, Kim is "absolutely traumatized" by the burglary and hasn't been sleeping since it occurred.
"All she kept saying over and over is, 'I have kids. Take anything you want. Please don't kill me. Please don't kill me,'" the source said the mother of two told the robbers, who didn't speak English.
Watch below:
Kelly Clarkson is quick to defend Kim Kardashian West against those who say the 35-year-old reality star's penchant for oversharing on social media may have led to her being robbed at gunpoint inside the apartment she was staying at in Paris, France.
"People overshare ...but it's asinine to say someone deserved that or asked for that," Clarkson tells ET's Jennifer Peros of the burglary. "That's, like, someone's mom and sister and daughter."
A source close to Kardashian West told ET that the mother of two -- who flew back to New York City on Monday morning -- was half asleep when men in masks came into her bedroom and duct-taped her mouth and bound her feet and hands. "All she kept saying over and over is, 'I have kids. Take anything you want. Please don't kill me. Please don't kill me,'" the source said.
"No one deserves to be held at gunpoint, even people we really don't like ...[even] if you don't like them," Clarkson says. "It's terrifying and not right."
Clarkson also isn't too surprised that Kardashian West had a reported $10 million worth of jewelry in her possession at the time of the burglary. "Tthey were probably three pieces [of jewelry] just worth a lot," the American Idol alum said in defense of Kardashian West. "It was probably three things, and she can wear whatever she wants."
CBS Radio News correspondent Elaine Cobbe confirmed on Monday that the burglars stole one ring estimated to be worth $4.5 million and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items. A source told ET that the ring was, in fact, the Lorraine Schwartz diamond accessory that Kanye West recently purchased for his wife. In addition, six to eight other pieces were apparently stolen, along with one of her phones.
In addition to Clarkson, who's currently promoting her children's book, River Rose and the Magical Lullaby, several other celebrities have spoken out in defense of Kardashian West, while some Twitter users are still accusing her of exaggerating the incident. "Besides the fact that it would not only be uncharacteristic of Kim to lie about something like this, she'd never put herself in this kind of danger," ET's source noted. "They wouldn’t do something like this for a reality show. She was scared for her life.”
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Absolutely Traumatized' After Paris Robbery, Not 'Fully Able to Comprehend What Happened'
UPDATE: An arrest was made in the killing of Richard Hong, the actor found dead in former CNN host George Stroumboulopoulos’  rented Los Angeles, California, home.  An official with LAPD's Hollywood Division tells ET,  "An arrest was made outside of state in the case of the killing of Richard Hong. The man is not in LAPD custody yet."
As for when the unidentified man will be returned to Los Angeles, police officials tell ET,  "The LAPD is waiting for extradition to take place.  The man detained out of state is unnamed at this time and his status is unknown. The extradition process can take days. It is unknown when he will be in LAPD custody."
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
A man was found dead in the Los Angeles home of former CNN host and Canadian TV personality George Stroumboulopoulos, ET has confirmed.
The Los Angeles Police Department confirmed to ET that Hollywood Division officers responded to a burglary call at the 6700 block of Milner Ave that came in just after 2 a.m. on Friday morning. Upon arriving at the scene, officers were directed to a male who was "an apparent victim of a homicide."
The victim has been identified by LAPD as Richard Hong, a 41-year-old actor and resident of Los Angeles. So far, Hong's cause of death is unknown.
Stroumboulopoulos took to Twitter to react to the news, revealing that he found out about the death while in New York, and that Hong was a "dear friend."
"Many of you have seen the reports of a homicide which occurred early this morning in the home I rent in Los Angeles. I only have a few details, but it seems like it was the result of a break in," he shared on Friday. "The victim was a dear friend of mine, who was staying at my place while I was away. I am heartbroken."
"I am writing this from a plane en route to Los Angeles from New York, so I can be with my friends there, who are also devastated," he continued. "There's so much to say, but I'm at a loss for words, so just love your people and I will have more to say when we know more about what happened."
Jennifer Garner definitely has a sense of humor.
The 44-year-old actress, who is still in the midst of her own split from Ben Affleck, played a little joke  on the paparazzi  on Saturday when she quipped she was off the market -- and dating Brad Pitt.
"Brad and I are dating," Garner said to a shocked cameraman as she left a coffee shop with a pal in Los Angeles.
"You're dating Brad, uh, Pitt?" he asked back, running to keep up with her.
"Yeah! Isn't it great?" the Miracles From Heaven star exclaimed as her friend laughed. 
"I've got to say, Ben must be pretty jealous. He must cry himself to sleep every night," the pap responded to Garner's own giggles, as she jumped into a black Range Rover.
While Garner doesn't seem too broken up about Pitt's split from Angelina Jolie, she was admittedly much more upset about his divorce from Jennifer Aniston -- even comparing the split to her breakup with Affleck.
"When Jen Aniston and Brad Pitt broke up, I was dying to see something that said they were getting back together," she told Vanity Fair in February.
Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt on Sept. 19, requesting full custody of their six children.
See the latest on their split in the video below.
You certainly can't accuse Mickey Rourke of being shy!
The Wrestler star was spotted out looking ready to bust out into a fitness routine this week while leaving lunch in Beverly Hills, California, in a pair of grey workout shorts that are just... so very revealing.
PHOTO: Mickey Rourke Debuts Fabulous Hairpiece and Spray Tan
Looking fit, Mickey!
This is not the first time the 64-year-old actor has flaunted his physique.
In July 2014, Rourke stepped out in neon green workout pants that left very little to the imagination.
Benedict Cumberbatch is very appreciative of his life.
The Oscar-nominated actor graces the November issue of Vanity Fair and opens up to the magazine about fatherhood and his near-death experience after being kidnapped and robbed at gunpoint. Coincidentally, Cumberbatch's recollection of this horrific event was released by the publication just days after Kim Kardashian West's robbery at gunpoint in Paris.
In 2004, while filming the BBC mini-series To the Ends of the Earth in South Africa, Cumberbatch and two of his co-stars, Theo Landey and Denise Black, were stopped by six armed men, after a scuba-diving trip. The robbers took their cell phones and credit cards and forced them into a car at gunpoint.
Cumberbatch remembers pleading for his life and kicking and screaming after being placed in the trunk. The robbers eventually stopped under a bridge, tied the actors up with their own shoelaces, and forced them to sit execution-style. Cumberbatch says he thought those were his last moments. But, in a turn of events, the robbers fled the scene and the actors managed to seek help.
The Imitation Game star says the horrifying ordeal only helped intensify his desire for adventure.
"I was definitely more impatient to live a life less ordinary," he says. "I wanted to swim in the sea that I saw the next morning. If you feel you’re going to die, you don’t think you’re going to have all those sensations again—a cold beer, a cigarette, the feel of sun on your skin. All those hit you as firsts again. It is, in a way, a new beginning."
Over the last few years, Cumberbatch has made quite the name for himself, thanks to TV's Sherlock, as well as starring in such films as The Fifth Estate, Star Trek Into Darkness, and Black Mass. He'll next be seen in Marvel's highly anticipated Dr. Strange. But, despite his fame, the 40-year-old actor says his thrills now come from being a family man.
Cumberbatch and his wife, actress and director Sophie Hunter, have a one-year-old son, Christopher Carlton.  The two married last year on Valentine's Day.
"The truth is I want to seek some thrills at home," he explains. "Having a baby—it's massive. And on a very unexpected level. Suddenly I understood my parents much more profoundly than I ever had before."
Fatherhood also gave him insight into one of his most challenging theatrical roles. "I was expecting, with Hamlet, that it might be a hindrance to be a father, because it's all about being a son. But it's the opposite. You understand much more about being a son, becoming a father."

A far cry from dresses and Converse, the eternally cool actress hit the New York Film Festival red carpet in a sexy red Sandro pantsuit -- made even sexier by donning the blazer unbuttoned with nothing more than a long, gold necklace underneath.
The revealing style left little to the imagination, offering glimpses of the 26-year-old's taut midsection. Her platinum pixie cut worn slick, a matching matte red lip and black lace-up Oxfords completed the look, not to mention endless amounts of confidence as she posed for photographers.
The Twilight star was joined by her Certain Women co-stars Michelle Williams and Laura Dern, for the movie premiere, which follows the intersecting lives of three strong-willed women in small-town America.
Equally strong-willed, Stewart has never been shy when it comes to remaining true to herself, as she has recently opened up about her growing relationship with her former personal assistant, Alicia Cargile.
"When I was dating a guy I was hiding everything that I did," she told Elle UK. "But then it changed when I started dating a girl. I was like, 'Actually, to hide this provides the implication that I'm not down with it or I'm ashamed of it,' so I had to alter how I approached being in public. It opened my life up and I'm so much happier."
Watch the clip below for more on Stewart's daring look.
Congratulations are in order for actress Samira Wiley and writer Lauren Morelli!
The couple announced they're engaged on Instagram on Tuesday, with a joyful selfie in which 29-year-old Wiley prominently sports her sparkly new engagement ring.
"Yes," Wiley captioned the pic.
PICS: Size Does Matter -- The Biggest and Best Celebrity Engagement Rings
Morelli posted the same snap on her own Instagram, adding a heart emoji.
The pair has been dating since 2014. Morelli, a writer for Orange Is the New Black, was previously married but she and her husband jointly filed for divorce after she realized upon joining the staff that she was a lesbian. In an essay she wrote for Mic.com in May 2014, Morelli said that the OITNB storyline between Piper Chapman (Taylor Schilling) and her ex-girlfriend, Alex Vause (Laura Prepon), was a huge push for her to come out, after only being married a few months.
"I was nervous about the first love scene I'd written for Alex and Piper," Morelli wrote. "I'd loved writing it, loved watching a tenderness emerge in their relationship where passion always seemed to be the ruling principle, but by that time, I was so deep in my own self-doubt that I constantly felt like a fraud. I was sure it was bleeding into my writing. How could it not? I was married to a man, but I wasn't straight."
"I found a mouthpiece for my own desires and a glimmer of what my future could look like," she added.
ET spoke to Wiley last month, when she talked about -- [Spoiler Alert] --  her beloved OITNB character, Poussey Washington, being killed off at the end of season four.
"I feel like I grew up on that show … Those were really formative years," she said. "I'd never played a character as long as I played Poussey. Spending time with her, so much time embodying that character, it was so -- and still is, and always will be -- so special to me and a part of who I am."
"There are so many people that are so attached to her in a way that I don't think I understood until this happened," she added.
Watch the video below to see an exclusive look at Wiley in her latest role -- playing a pregnant mother and wife in 37 --  a retelling of the horrific true crime of Kitty Genovese's 1964 murder in New York. 
Chrissy Teigen sounds like a nosy neighbor.
The 30-year-old supermodel recently moved into Rihanna's former home, and admitted while on Tuesday's episode of The Ellen DeGeneres Show that she's been known to open the 28-year-old singer's leftover mail.
"The one fun thing that does happen every once in a while is that I get a bill of hers," Teigen shared, adding that RiRi once got a bill for $12. "I really want to somehow give it back to her. So I tried to bring it to the GRAMMYs, and John [Legend] said, 'No, please don't. It doesn't look cool. You're embarrassing me!'"
That's not the only mail of Rihanna's that Teigen has received. "She gets a lot of fan mail," she revealed. "I don't get my own to the house."
When DeGeneres pointed out that opening someone else's mail was illegal, Teigen gasped, exclaiming, "Will you be editing this? OK, good to know. This is why I can't run for president."
PHOTOS: Rihanna Debuts Dramatic New Dreadlocks Hairstyle
She added, "I never in my life thought I would be cool enough to live in Rihanna's pad."
A source confirmed to ET back in January that Teigen and Legend were moving into a $14 million home in Beverly Hills, California. Rihanna moved out of 8,520-square-foot pad in 2011.
While Teigen didn't take Rihanna's mail to this year's GRAMMYs, she did have a message for the R&B artist when talking to ET on the red carpet. "Rihanna, if you're watching, we have some of your mail!" she joked. "You have a $19 credit towards a car purchase, I believe."
EXCLUSIVE: Chrissy Teigen Gushes About Daughter Luna -- 'There Is No Feeling Like That First Smile'
Demi Lovato basically told her Twitter followers "sorry, not sorry" after slamming Taylor Swift and her squad in Glamour magazine.
"I get asked questions. I answer them. Sue me," the 24-year-old singer tweeted on Tuesday. "Also, don't forget that words can be taken out of context when doing interviews."
Lovato then added: "Still not apologizing for saying what everyone wants to say."
Not stopping there, she tweeted: "I don't understand why people care so much about what I say in interviews? Do y'all watch the news? Don't y'all got sh** to worry about?"
During her interview with Glamour, Lovato was asked about her past insults in regard to Swift’s charitable endeavors, and prefaced that her response would "probably get me in trouble."
"I don’t see anybody in any sort of squad that has a normal body,” she said of the "Shake It Off" singer's friends, which includes supermodels Cara Delevingne, Karlie Kloss and Gigi Hadid. "It’s kind of this false image of what people should look like. And what they should be like, and it’s not real…. It’s not realistic."
Lovato also called out Swift’s 2014 song, “Bad Blood,” adding, “And I think that having a song and a video about tearing Katy Perry down, that’s not women’s empowerment. We all do things that aren’t, but I have to ask myself, 'Am I content with calling myself a feminist?' Yes, because I speak out.”
Swift isn't the only pop star Lovato has called out in an interview. She also threw shade at Mariah Carey during an interview with Billboard magazine. Check it out:
Kim Kardashian West's terrifying robbery in Paris definitely has her and husband Kanye West rethinking their security measures, a source close to Kim tells ET.
After the 35-year-old reality superstar was held up at gunpoint on Sunday when armed, masked men entered the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France, during Paris Fashion Week, security around the couple and their two children -- 3-year-old North and 9-month-old Saint -- is set to change.
"Kim and Kanye are reassessing their security detail now. Kanye is freaking out -- this really threw him for a loop," the source says. "There will be a lot of things that change now in terms of security, especially with the children."
"Their immediate need is undercover security -- people who will be with them but stepped back to the side," the source adds. "There are plans for many other things they'll change as well."
Most importantly, the famous family is trying to figure out how to prevent an incident like this from ever happening again.
"Kim is constantly traveling and sleeping in hotels," the source explains. "For her to get through this experience will take some time, mentally."
Though Kim is "absolutely traumatized," the source says she holds no grudges towards her bodyguard, Pascal Duvier, or with French authorities. A source previously told ET that Pascal was not with Kim during the robbery on Sunday -- he and the driver dropped Kim off at her apartment through the garage, and Pascal went back out with her older sister, Kourtney Kardashian, who met up with their younger sister, Kendall Jenner.
"He was done working for her when this happened," the source says about Pascal. "Also, Pascal is not an armed bodyguard. Kim does not hold Pascal responsible for one second."
Kim, Kanye, and their kids are currently staying at their New York City apartment. Kim's mother, Kris Jenner, is also set to stay with them until Wednesday, the source says.
"She's just spending time with her kids right now and hugging them really tight," the source adds.
Both North and Saint were safely in NYC with Kanye, a family friend, and a nanny during Kim's scary incident over the weekend, a source told ET on Monday. More specifically, North was at a performance of the musical Matilda on Sunday afternoon, a rep for the Broadway production confirmed to ET.
Watch below:
-- Reporting by Jennifer Peros
Kim Kardashian is "still in shock" after she was woken up and robbed at gunpoint inside the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France, a source close to the reality star tells ET.
The source says Kim is "absolutely traumatized" by the burglary and hasn't been sleeping since it occurred. "When the incident happened, [Kim] was half asleep and was woken up so abruptly," the source explains. "She was on little sleep to begin with since getting to Paris. She still hasn’t fully been able to comprehend what happened.”
According to the insider, "the concierge brought the men up into Kim's bedroom" while she was in her bed wearing a robe. "She heard really loud footsteps in the apartment coming up to the second floor, where she was sleeping," the source claims. "She picked up her cell but wasn't able to call [bodyguard] Pascal [Duvier] in time before one of the guys grabbed it out of her hand and she realized what was happening.  It was absolutely horrific.”
As for identifying the men, the source says Kim "didn’t get a look at any of the guys' faces" because they were wearing black ski masks and gloves."None of them spoke English, so she couldn't communicate with them," the source continues. "All she kept saying over and over is 'I have kids. Take anything you want. Please don't kill me. Please don't kill me.'"
While Kim was alone in her bedroom at the time of the burglary, she was apparently not alone in the apartment. Celebrity stylist and Kim's longtime friend, Simone [Harouche], was in another bedroom in the suite of the residence.
Kim flew out of Paris on Monday morning, and was reunited with her family in New York City. Kanye West met her at the airport, and the source tells ET that she "spent the entire day" with her 3-year-old daughter, North, and her 9-month-old son, Saint. "She's very emotional. The scariest part for her throughout this experience is the fact that it could have been a lot worse, and she couldn’t imagine what that would have been like for her children," says the source. "The kids have no idea what’s going on, thankfully."
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian 'Thought She Was Going to Die' During Paris Robbery, Cried and Begged for Her Life, Source Says
CBS Radio News correspondent Elaine Cobbe confirmed on Monday that the burglars stole one ring estimated to be worth $4.5 million and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items. The source tells ET that the ring was, in fact, the Lorraine Schwartz diamond accessory that Kanye recently purchased for Kim. In addition, six to eight other pieces were apparently stolen, along with one of her phones.
"She was there for [Paris Fashion Week] appearances, so she had all her expensive jewelry with her," the source says. "The stolen jewelry is the last of her concerns right now.”
Since the incident, many celebrities have spoken out in defense of Kim, while some Twitter users have accused her of exaggerating the incident. "Besides the fact that it would not only be uncharacteristic of Kim to lie about something like this, she'd never put herself in this kind of danger," the source notes. "They wouldn’t do something like this for a reality show. She was scared for her life.”
In a statement on Monday to ET, an E! spokesperson said Keeping Up With the Kardashians was not filming at the time of the theft. "All of us at E! are incredibly thankful that Kim Kardashian West is safe, and we send her and her family our love and support," the statement reads. "Keeping Up With the Kardashians was not filming at the time of the robbery. Our focus right now is entirely on Kim's well-being."
Reporting by Jennifer Peros.
Ben Stiller is a cancer survivor.
The 50-year-old actor revealed he was diagnosed with prostate cancer in June 2014 during an interview on SiriusXM's The Howard Stern Show on Tuesday, and says early detection saved his life. His doctor was able to detect the cancer when he gave the comedian a Prostate-Specific Antigen (PSA) test during a yearly physical.
"If I hadn't gotten the test -- my doctor started giving it to me at 46 -- I still wouldn't know," Stiller said. "I wanted to talk about it because of the test, because I feel like the test saved my life."
The PSA test is a blood test used primarily to screen for prostate cancer, and measures the amount of prostate-specific antigen in a person's blood. The diagnosis came as a total shock to Stiller, given that the Zoolander star has no history of prostate cancer in the family.
"It came out of the blue for me. I had no idea," Stiller told Stern. "At first, I didn't know what was gonna happen. I was scared. It just stopped everything in your life because you can't plan for a movie because you don't know what's gonna happen."
Stiller shared he eventually had surgery to treat his cancer. In a blog post on Medium about his experience dealing with "mid-range aggressive" prostate cancer, he says he got a test back telling him he was cancer free on Sept. 17, 2014.
"As I learned more about my disease (one of the key learnings is not to Google 'people who died of prostate cancer' immediately after being diagnosed with prostate cancer), I was able to wrap my head around the fact that I was incredibly fortunate," Stiller writes. "Fortunate because my cancer was detected early enough to treat. And also because my internist gave me a test he didn't have to."
"As of this writing I am two years cancer free and extremely grateful," he adds.
Stiller has been married to actress Christine Taylor since 2000. The couple has two children, 14-year-old Ella and 11-year-old Quinlin.
ET spoke with Stiller at the New York City Zoolander 2 premiere in February, when he told us the secret to his enduring marriage, and talked about the unpredictability of life.
"I think you got to laugh," he told ET exclusively. "Because, you know, after a while, life is life you know? We all have to deal with what life throws at us, so you got to have a sense of humor about it. If you can share that, at the end, it makes a huge difference."
Watch below:
Tori Anderson is about to win you over.
The Canadian actress makes a splash as the star of The CW’s charming post-apocalyptic romantic comedy, No Tomorrow, which premieres on Tuesday. As Evie, the risk-averse, straight-arrow procurement manager at a distribution center who unwillingly falls in love with a free spirit (Galavant’s Joshua Sasse) and goes on a bucket-list adventure, Anderson charms her way through the small screen, captivating every scene she’s in.

“This was a character where I pretty much said, ‘I know this girl because I see so much of myself in her,’ and that’s what was exciting,” says Anderson, who was away with her boyfriend’s family when she first saw the article (“I had tears in my eyes!”). “No matter if she was being pulled in different directions, she still trusted herself and she made her own decisions. She’s trepidatious. She’s nervous. But at the end of the day, she’s still her and she’s happy being her.”
“That’s what’s neat about the pilot and Evie as a character. She has all of her ducks in a row but she still feels unsatisfied. She still contemplates what it is in her life that’s missing and what it is that drives her to take the next step,” she adds. “She still has a lot of growing to do, as I think every human does.”

“She has to be funny and endearing and sing and [have] all these different talents, and Tori just has it all,” adds executive producer Maggie Friedman tells ET of her leading lady, noting that Anderson's looks mirror that of Taylor Swift. “We saw her on tape from Canada and we were all like, ‘Oh my god, this girl’s got something.’”
“When we saw her in person, it was like Tori could do that physicality [that we were looking for] -- slightly gangly and awkward -- where you’re like, she is relatable,” says executive producer Corinne Brinkerhoff, who called Anderson a total “gem.” “What I definitely didn’t want was that thing where you cast someone who’s a runway model and you pretend she’s dorky, but Tori can really tap into the everyday girl in a way that’s authentic.”
For the 27-year-old, who is also a singer (she shows off her pipes in the first episode), leading a major U.S. TV show was always something she “subconsciously” hoped to accomplish at some point in her career, but never something she dared mention.

Even more impressive was the fact that producers opted not to put Anderson and Sasse, who plays Evie’s love interest and “end of the world” truther Xavier, in the same room before they stepped on set. Their huge risk paid off.
“We lucked out,” Anderson admits, chuckling at the absurdity of it all. “The feeling of working with him was incredible and wonderful, but it’s one of those things where you feel it and you hope it translates onscreen. And luckily, it did. That was such a blessing that it worked out because it’s the center of the show. She’s sucked into him. It’s love. She feels an electric shock through her system when she first sees him.”
With a little over one month of filming No Tomorrow under her belt, Anderson is nervously awaiting the world’s reaction to the quirky new show.
“There’s a lot of me in Evie and that’s what was nice and scary because if people don’t like Evie, it’s me,” she says. “I love her. She’s weird and awkward, and I feel very fortunate that this came across my desk. I’m so damn lucky.”

James Corden was praised by Jamie Lee Curtis for speaking out against those tweeting jokes about Kim Kardashian West after she was robbed at gunpoint and tied up inside the luxury apartment she was staying at for Paris Fashion Week.
"People making jokes about @KimKardashian tonight would do well to remember that she's a mother, a daughter, a wife, a friend," the 38-year-old host tweeted after news broke of the burglary. "Be nice or shut up."
"This very day, something really scary happened to a public person, and you were the first person to stand up and tell [Twitter users] that they should shut the f--k up and leave this poor woman alone and let her recover," Curtis told Corden during her appearance on Monday's Late Late Show. "And you, you said it! And I am impressed by you, very much."
Curtis reminded the audience that Kardashian is "a mother of two small children!"
"My God, these people just need to have their devices put somewhere," the Scream Queens star proclaimed.
Corden agreed with Curtis, adding, "Regardless of whatever you think of someone, it's someone being held at gunpoint in a room. Just don't say anything. Also, you don't need to say anything. Just don't do anything!"
The Late Late Show host wasn't the only one in late night to bring up Kardashian's robbery. Jimmy Kimmel joked that America would not stand for someone messing with the 35-year-old reality star.
"We will tolerate a lot of nonsense, but you do not mess with Kim Kardashian West. Whether you like her or not, she's one of us," Kimmel jokingly declared. "If we find out you harmed even a single extension on her People's Choice Award-winning head, we will find you and we will make you so les misérables, you will wish you were never born to a woman who doesn't shave her armpits."
A source close to Kardashian gave a terrifying account of the burglary, telling ET that the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star tearfully begged for her life. "She thought she was going to die. They put a gun to her head while they were searching the apartment," the source said. "It’s an absolute awful story. One of the most terrifying experiences of her life."
The Flash is rewriting history yet again.

The differences from the original timeline to the “Flashpoint”-affected world are stark. Barry and Iris West (Candice Patton) are mere strangers, Wally West (Keiynan Lonsdale) is Central City’s version of The Flash, Joe West (Jesse L. Martin) is an alcoholic cop, and Team Flash is nonexistent. Instead, Cisco Ramon (Carlos Valdes) is a playboy billionaire (sound familiar?), and Caitlin Snow (Danielle Panabaker) is an ophthalmologist.
Ahead of Tuesday’s anticipated return, Patton jumped on the phone with ET to dish on all things “Flashpoint,” the anticipated four-show crossover, and why it’s “essential” that a significant character will come out in the DC-verse.
ET: How exciting has it been for you, now three seasons into The Flash, to kick off the year in such an ambitious way with "Flashpoint"?
Candice Patton: The cool thing about the show is every season feels a little bit different, and I feel like we’re always topping ourselves. When I knew we were doing “Flashpoint,” it was really exciting. If you’re a fan of the Flash comic books, this is a huge thing. It was something that no one had ever seen with these characters. I’m super excited for [the premiere] -- I’ve been waiting for people to see this episode. It’s something that I’m very proud of, and it reminds me of the excitement I had from the pilot.
“Flashpoint” offers you the rare opportunity to play another iteration of your character. What do you want fans to know about Iris in this new world?

Even though “Flashpoint” Iris may not be permanent, that must have been gratifying for you to explore another shade to her.
I will say that out of all the characters, Iris is essentially the most similar to her original self and it’s a thing that we play with. No matter where we find her, she’s kind of a fixed point for Barry. She’s always the Iris he knows and loves. She’s kind of a safety blanket for him. But it is cool as an actor [to be] on a show where there’s different arcs and timelines to explore -- even if they are small things, just being able to change the character in a little way.
Barry and Iris have had years of history that we’ve seen over the past two seasons, but in “Flashpoint,” we see them meet and get to know each other. What can WestAllen fans look forward to in this timeline?
That’s the thing -- it’s different. They didn’t know each other in this timeline. They didn’t grow up together. Barry lives with his parents because they’re still alive. We know that they went to school together, but they don’t have a relationship. They barely have a friendship. There’s this really cute moment where Barry gets up the nerve to talk to her and essentially ask her out for the first time and try to recreate the romance that he had with her at the end of season two, so there’s a really sweet moment of them meeting each other for the first time.
When “Flashpoint” goes away, how do you think the repercussions of that affect Iris?

Looking ahead to the rest of the season, we’re looking forward to The Flash-Supergirl musical crossover. Are you excited to take part?
We’re all kind of just waiting for more details. We’re all super excited but also a little bit nervous. We haven’t done anything like this --  maybe Grant on Glee -- but that’s it. I’m excited to be a part of it. This is the rare show where we get to do a lot of different things as actors, and this musical episode is an example of that. I don’t know what my part in it will be, if it’ll be big or small, but whatever they throw at me, I’m willing to do.
Is the Arrow, Flash, Supergirl and Legends of Tomorrow four-show crossover event this fall the biggest that we’ll ever see?
I think so! I think having four shows on the network now that we can cross over to, this is definitely the farthest and the biggest that we’ve been done. We’re in the middle of shooting The Flash [portion of the] crossover right now and reading the script, I was like, “Fans will love this.” You get to see some of your favorite characters interact with other characters, and it’s just cool. Seeing superheroes team up is always cool. I think people will be really happy.
We’ll learn that a major character from one of the four shows will come out as gay this season. What are your thoughts on that storyline and the show embracing the LGBT community by making that a central part of someone’s journey?
It’s absolutely essential. I think one character’s not enough. There should be more. I’m excited that they’re moving in that direction. I’m always an advocate of diversity. I think the more these shows look like the world we live in, the more tolerance there’ll be. Me being a black actress playing the ingénue and being the leading lady on a show like The Flash, that isn’t done very often. We’re changing the landscape of what ingénues look like, and television is very powerful. Any time we can do diverse casting, I think it’s for the better.

Now this is how you celebrate an epic tour.
Beyonce showed her staff appreciation for her super successful Formation tour, hosting a party for them at upscale French restaurant Bagatelle in New York City on Monday night. The tour's last stop is on Oct. 7 in East Rutherford, New Jersey, where she'll be performing at the MetLife Stadium.
The 35-year-old superstar looked fierce as usual during the outing, rocking a distressed denim AKID jacket and matching jean shorts that showed off her toned legs. But it's her accessories that really stole the show. Queen Bey sported a pink camouflage hat from her own Ivy Park collection, playful t-strap Gucci pumps featuring a pair of lips, and a Blood & Honey mink clutch with hot pink lettering reading, "I kiss better than I cook." The $1,950 statement bag will be released later this month. 
Her husband, 46-year-old Jay Z, chose a sportier look, looking comfy in a blue ensemble and a pair of white Nike sneakers.
Beyonce's tour supporting her latest album, Lemonade, kicked off on April 27 in Miami, Florida, and it's safe to say she delivered during every stop. Earlier this month, the "Sorry" singer performed to a star-studded crowd at Los Angeles' Dodger Stadium, which included A-listers Katy Perry, Jennifer Lawrence, Gwyneth Paltrow, Christina Aguilera, Amy Schumer, as well as Channing Tatum and wife Jenna Dewan Tatum.
Watch below!
Werk, werk, werk, werk, werk werk! Rihanna took to Instagram on Monday to show off her brand new ‘do.
Posing with her back to the camera, RiRi showed off her thick, long dreadlocks, captioning the photo, “buffalo $oldier.”
The dreads reached down past her famous booty. Prior to her latest hairstyle, Rihanna sported sleek black locks at various Paris Fashion Week events.
It’s unclear what the “Work” singer’s new beau, Drake, thinks of her dramatic tresses, but chances are he’ll approve. The “One Dance” rapper has been publicly smitten with Rihanna for months.
In mid-September, the pair performed together in Los Angeles where Drake gushed about his girl.
"L.A. I pray that you find somebody to hold you down like this woman right here," he said, to cheers from fans.
In late August, Drake presented the GRAMMY winner with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the MTV VMAs.
"She's someone I've been in love with since I was 22 years old," he told the crowd. "She's one of my best friends in the world. All my adult life, I've looked up to her, even though she's younger than me. She's a living breathing legend in our industry."
For more from Drake’s sweet speech, watch the clip below!
Demi Lovato’s not holding back! The Disney Channel alum took indirect aim at Taylor Swift in her new cover story for Glamour’s November issue. When questioned about her past insults to Swift’s charitable endeavors, the “Confident” singer got slightly vague, while still making her point clear.
“I think in certain situations, certain people could be doing more if they’re going to claim that as part of their brand. To be honest, and this will probably get me in trouble, I don’t see anybody in any sort of squad that has a normal body,” Lovato said, referencing Swift’s buzzed about pals, which includes supermodels Cara Delevingne, Karlie Kloss, Martha Hunt, and more. “It’s kind of this false image of what people should look like. And what they should be like, and it’s not real…. It’s not realistic.”
MORE: Demi Lovato Promotes Gender Equality, Performs 'Natural Woman' at the Global Citizen Festival
Lovato also called out Swift’s 2014 tune “Bad Blood,” saying, “And I think that having a song and a video about tearing Katy Perry down, that’s not women’s empowerment. We all do things that aren’t, but I have to ask myself, Am I content with calling myself a feminist? Yes, because I speak out.”
These days, Lovato is all about bettering herself. Part of that came from her recent break up with her longtime love, Wilmer Valderrama.
“I think it’s healthy to be able to start over with someone else. Being sick was always a part of my relationship with him,” she said, referencing her 2010 stint in rehab. “I always had something wrong with me. I needed to let go of that. It was hard to depart from somebody who saw everything, but it may be nice to start fresh with somebody. Because that person I was when I was a lot younger is not who I am today.”
As she works hard to stay healthy, Lovato is acutely aware of her many triggers like “seeing cocaine in movies,” and refuses to let them spark a relapses after years of sobriety.
“I’ve never watched The Wolf of Wall Street. I can’t,” she noted. “I don’t like to go out to clubs, because I find myself seeing remnants of drugs in the bathroom.”
Lovato, who previously struggled with an eating disorder, also said that just being around the Victoria’s Secret Angels was triggering to her.
“I remember asking, ‘How do you maintain your figure?’ Some said, ‘I really have to work at it.’ Others said, ‘It’s genetics.’ It was interesting to hear that it wasn’t through unhealthy [behaviors],” she recalled. “It was a great learning experience. I still felt sexy, having a different body than these women. I had Wilmer there, who loved my curves—that helped.”
MORE: Demi Lovato Co-Owns Rehab Center: It 'Has Played an Extremely Important Role in My Life'
The singer noted that staying clean has been a difficult journey, revealing that her time in rehab didn’t guarantee her sobriety.
“Getting sober was difficult. I went into rehab, I came out, and I didn’t stay sober,” the mental health advocate admitted. “I still had issues occasionally. Now some days it’s difficult; some days it’s easy. But I like to focus on what I’m doing now, which is giving back.”
To see Lovato slay an Adele cover, watch the video below!
Hold on, still looking for our jaws. They’re somewhere on the floor. On Monday night, Usher once again did a mic drop by dropping his pants on the ground. The 37-year-old musician posed nude in a bedroom Twitter pic that immediately got fans’ attention online.
The “Love in This Club” singer didn’t caption the sexy black and white shot, but the picture’s worth 1,000 words. In the photo, Usher is standing with blankets covering his privates as he clasps his hands together.
Ush is currently in Paris for Fashion Week activities, which he documented (sadly, while fully clothed) on his Snapchat.
This isn’t the first time the R&B artist has stripped down on social media. Back in April, Usher went entirely nude on Snapchat, during a trip to the sauna.
“Blowinoffsteam,” he captioned the extremely NSFW shot.
It’s obvious that Usher is feelin’ himself lately, and he has every right to. The actor trained for months to play boxer Sugar Ray Leonard in the action film Hands of Stone.
But he’s happiest about his relationship with his manager and wife of one year, Grace Miguel.
“I’m just really happy to have found an incredible mate and a partner,” he told ET in August.
For more on Usher’s marriage, watch the video below!
Melissa Etheridge admits she hasn't spoken to Brad Pitt in "years," but she still has his back.
The 55-year-old singer, who was a longtime friend of the 52-year-old actor, responded to the news of Angelina Jolie filing for divorce from Pitt and the custody battle over their six children.
"It breaks my heart that anyone would take something as personal as your marriage and your relationship and your rights to your children and do it as purposefully as I see it’s being done,” Etheridge told Andy Cohen on his Sirius XM radio show on Monday.
EXCLUSIVE: Brad Pitt Takes Voluntary Drug Test, Leaning on Friends for Support Amid Angelina Jolie Split, Source Says
Etheridge had her own custody battle with ex Tammy Lynn Michaels in 2010, and insisted that "there’s a way to be" when going through something like that. "I’ve gone through family courts. I’ve been twice around this block, and I know it really well," she said. "And I know when there’s some forethought to just how mean [you can be] and just how you’re going to put disinformation out there first."
As for the allegations that Pitt was verbally abusive and physical with his son during a recent flight, Etheridge said she finds those claims "completely unfounded” and “heartbreaking.”
The musician, who sang at Pitt's wedding to Jennifer Aniston, is now hoping to reconnect with her friend. "I really hope that he reaches back out because there are a lot of us who haven’t seen him in 10 years," Etheridge -- who will soon have her own talk show, Volume, on Sirius XM's music talk channel -- admitted. "And it was hard then. We all lost a friend."
Etheridge also slammed Jolie, claiming she witnessed firsthand her "nasty" behavior when the 41-year-old actress got together with Billy Bob Thornton -- who was engaged to Etheridge's friend, Laura Dern, at the time -- and was married to him from 2000 to 2003. "I was around when Angelina was not doing nice things with Billy Bob to Laura Dern," she claimed. "I helped Laura move out of her house with Billy Bob. I, like, broke into their home to get their stuff out because it was so nasty."
This is not the first time that Etheridge has criticized Jolie. Shortly after the mother of six published an op-ed in 2013 about undergoing a preventive double mastectomy, the singer -- a breast cancer survivor -- said she wouldn't have made the same decision for herself. "I have that gene mutation too, and it’s not something I would believe in for myself," she told the Washington Blade at the time. "I wouldn’t call it the brave choice. I actually think it’s the most fearful choice you can make when confronting anything with cancer.”
Prior to Etheridge's recent comments about Jolie, a source told ET that Pitt "made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her," adding that he "only has positive things to say about her as a mother" and refuses to disparage her.
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source said of Pitt. "He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."
Last week, ET confirmed that Jolie and Pitt had agreed to a temporary custody deal, and had volunteered to participate in individual counseling. Pitt also agreed to undergo drug and alcohol testing, though he was not required to, sources told ET.
"She is only concerned with the health and safety of her children, that is how she feels at this moment," a source close to the situation said of Jolie.
A source also told ET that camps for the A-list stars had recently been having "productive discussions."
"The fact that things have quieted down is a good sign for everyone," the source noted.
Johnny Depp wasn’t a part of the on-screen story in the new teaser trailer for Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales. The spooky new clip was released on Sunday and featured almost two minutes of new footage, but was noticeably missing the film's star.
Depp, who has played Captain Jack Sparrow in all five of the franchise’s films, was not present in the new clip. Instead it was Javier Bardem as the chill-inducing Captain Salazar who stole the show.
In the video, Captain Salazar and his crew of undead pirates seize a ship where they question a young boy about the whereabouts of Captain Jack Sparrow.
“Find Sparrow for me and relay him a message from Captain Salazar,” Bardem growls in the clip. “Tell him, ‘Death comes straight for him.’”
The film will also feature Pirates staples Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush, as well as several new faces including Sir Paul McCartney in an unnamed role.
Depp has stayed out of the spotlight recently, following his messy divorce from ex Amber Heard. The former couple came to a settlement in mid-August, with Heard earning $7 million, which she then donated to charity.
MORE: Johnny Depp to Star As Cop Investigating the Murders of Tupac Shakur and Notorious B.I.G. in 'Labyrinth'
"Our relationship was intensely passionate and at times volatile, but always bound by love," Heard and Depp said in a joint statement. "Neither party has made false accusations for financial gains. There was never an intent of physical or emotional harm."
For more on the exes’ settlement, watch the video below:
Supportive and sweet! While he was finalizing his Voice team in the Blind Auditions episode of the hit music competition series, Blake Shelton took to Twitter to give a shout out to his former Voice co-star and current girlfriend, Gwen Stefani.
The former No Doubt frontwoman turned 47 on Monday, and her country crooner beau made sure he shared some public birthday love.
“Happy Birthday @gwenstefani and congrats on the debut of @KuuKuuHaraiuku!!!!” Shelton tweeted.
Just ahead of her birthday, Stefani revealed that she was working on a new animated Nickelodeon show, Kuu Kuu Haraiuku, which debuted on her birthday.
The show brings back Stefani’s “Harajuku Girls,” who were featured on her 2004 album Love. Angel. Music. Baby., and along with an animated version of herself, the five girls fight crime.
“Each girl in the show has their own personality and their own strength. I think that's what's fun about the show is that there's no boundaries and anything can happen,” Stefani told Billboard.
The “Hollaback Girl” singer posted an Instagram of herself watching her new series, writing, “Had such s fun b day! Thank u for all the love and attention KUUKUUHARAJUKU Gx.”
In addition to her exciting new project, Stefani might also have some fun plans on the horizon. The GRAMMY winner got suspiciously flustered when Ellen DeGeneres questioned her about a potential wedding to Shelton on her show in late September.
“You’re crazy,” she finally told the host, giggling.
For more of Gwen on Ellen, watch the video below!
Though the Kardashian world is currently in chaos due to very traumatic present-day events, Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna's relationship drama continues to play out on their reality show. In a new preview for this week’s episode of Rob & Chyna, the at-odds couple is more vicious than ever, still unable to move past their struggles as Chyna prepares to give birth.
MORE: Kanye West Reschedules 'Saint Pablo' Tour Dates Following Kim Kardashian Robbery
The clip starts off with the pregnant model declaring, “I don’t know how much longer I can do this.”
She has a serious conversation with her future sister-in-law, Kim Kardashian, who says, “I hope he gets it together for the baby.”
But the tension proves to be too much as the cameras show Chyna screaming, “Let me the f**k out!’ while Rob, who is driving, calls her a “psychopath.” She continues to scream before reaching up to take down the car’s windshield camera.
These days, the Kardashian clan has much more important matters to worry about than a fight between Rob and Chyna. Over the weekend, Kim was robbed at gunpoint by two masked men posing as police officers in her Paris apartment, shortly after she shared a Snapchat FaceTiming with Chyna at her baby shower on Sunday.
The thieves are still at large after reportedly stealing millions from Kim in jewelry, electronics, and cash. Though Kim is physically unharmed, the reality star is “very, very shaken up,” a source previously told ET.
Her famous family has been relatively quiet on social media since the incident. Kim is now back in New York City with her family and her husband, Kanye West, has rescheduled his Saint Pablo tour dates in the wake of the robbery.
Rob & Chyna airs Sunday at 9 p.m. ET on E!
For more on Kim’s terrifying ordeal, watch the clip below:
In Emily Blunt's new thriller, The Girl on the Train, she plays a troubled woman named Rachel, while former Friends star Lisa Kudrow plays a friend of her ex-husband’s named Martha.
On Monday's Tonight Show, Blunt recounted how Kudrow's character was originally named Monica, and having characters with those names (especially when there’s a Friends alum involved) led to some hilarious confusion on set.
"We were shooting in Grand Central Station… and we had about 300 extras," the 33-year-old star told Fallon, laughing. "We had actual commuters coming into Grand Central who heard on the loudspeaker, 'OK guys, we're gonna roll on Rachel!' And then they see Lisa Kudrow walking on and then they hear, 'Guys, we're gonna do a close-up on Monica!' And I saw two people have an aneurysm!"
"[Extras] were like, 'It's the Friends reunion!'" she continued. "They were so excited! [And then] disappointed."
According to Blunt, The Girl on the Train team ended up changing Kudrow’s character’s name to Martha because they "were sure it would get sort of a laugh in a test screening."
Blunt, who welcomed her second daughter, Violet, with husband John Krasinski in June, also dished on how their 2-year-old, Hazel, is adjusting to life as a big sister.
"We were concerned Hazel would be really disinterested," Blunt admitted. "[But] she quite likes her."
In fact, Hazel is already trying to make Violet as comfortable as possible (even if she does so in a hilariously uncomfortable way).
"I turned my back for a second yesterday and I went to the kitchen to make us some lunch and I came back to discover Hazel just dragging Violet off her play mat. Just gently sort of just dragging her," she recounted. "I just said 'Ooh, Hazel, I don't think we want to do that.' And she goes, 'I just want to get her in a better spot.'"
And while Violet is likely still quite a few months away from saying her first words, it turns out Violet had picked up her mother's British accent -- for a while.
"Hazel had my accent for a really long time and would say things like 'wot-ter', which I was really proud of," Blunt shared. "Then, the other day she goes, 'Can I have some waaaaater?' And I went, 'It's wot-ter,' and she was like, 'No, it's water,' and I was like, 'No!'"
After their interview, Blunt and Fallon faced off for an awesome installment of "Box of Lies," where the acclaimed actress manage to pull a few fast ones over on her opponent, but not without getting fooled a few times herself  thanks to an "easily pleased" audience.
Recently, Blunt sat down with ET while promoting her upcoming thriller, and she couldn't help but marvel at how wonderful her adoring husband is.
"He is my perfect man, you know, he is funny and warm and bright and confident and a sort of emboldening person to be around," the actress said of Krasinski, whom she's been married to for six years. Check out the video below to hear more.
Kanye West is rescheduling dates on his Saint Pablo tour in the wake of his wife, Kim Kardashian, getting robbed at gunpoint in Paris, France.
West's show at Philadelphia's Wells Fargo Center on Oct. 4 and his engagement at The Palace of Auburn Hills in Detroit, Michigan on Oct. 6 have - been rescheduled for Dec. 13 and Dec. 22 respectively, Live Nation announced on Monday in a statement to Rolling Stone and the venue also shared the news via social.
The Saint Pablo tour was previously set to come to a close on Nov. 1 with a performance at The Forum in Inglewood, California.
West abruptly walked off stage at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York on Sunday after hearing that his wife had been held up. The rapper told the audience that he had to end the show due to a "family emergency."
Kardashian, who was in France for Paris Fashion Week, was reportedly robbed in her hotel room by two armed, masked men who entered her room dressed as police. The thieves tied her up during the course of the robbery and reportedly made off with millions of dollars in jewelry, electronics and cash.
A source close to the reality star told ET that she is "very, very shaken up" by the incident.
"She thought she was going to die," the source said. "They put a gun to her head while they were searching the apartment. She was crying, begging them for her life. It’s an absolute awful story. One of the most terrifying experiences of her life."
Watch the video below for more on the 35-year-old mother of two's frightening run-in with armed assailants.
Ciara has described her July wedding to Russell Wilson as one of the “most perfect” days of her life and admits she’s “still floating” after tying the knot with the NFL star.
“I definitely can say it was two of the most perfect days in my life. The day before and the day of the actual wedding was a special time,” the singer told #legend magazine. “It was honestly so beautiful and I really felt like I was in a fairy tale.”
EXCLUSIVE: Russell Wilson Dishes on Keeping His Wedding to Ciara a Secret
“Everything I could have hoped for, dreamed of, happened on that day,” the 30-year-old singer and model continued to gush. “It was memorable. We spent two days with all the people that we love -- your family and your close friends. I’m definitely still floating. It’s only three months ago and it’s crazy how time goes by.”
The couple wed in a stunningly beautiful ceremony at the Peckforton Castle in Cheshire, England on Jul. 6.
Wilson, quarterback for the Seattle Seahawks, is just as smitten with his new wife, spending Monday proudly posting several photos of her from the #legend shoot on Twitter.
“My Treasure, My Wife, My Everything,” he wrote over three separate posts.
Wilson is now stepdad to Ciara’s 2-year-old son, Future Zahir, from her previous relationship with rapper Future. In her new interview, the singer opened up about how becoming a mother changed her outlook on life.
“It makes you really understand the definition of being responsible,” she told the magazine. “Because now it’s like, every decision I make affects not only my life, but it affects his life. And having my child has really propelled me to focus even more on not only what I want personally, and then also as a businesswoman. It really helps you lock things down.”
Speaking of business, the songstress is currently working on a new record and says she’s carefully taking her time to perfect the music.
“I want to make sure that I put myself in every part of it, all my creative thoughts, feelings, everything on this album.”
See Wilson talk about the possibility of having kids with Ciara in the video below.
A.J. McLean is having another girl!
The Backstreet Boys singer exclusively revealed the happy news to ET’s Deidre Behar at the premiere of music documentary We Are X in Los Angeles on Monday night.
“A lot of girls in the house!” McLean said with a laugh. “I will take that over testosterone running around the house, to be honest with you.”
“All my boys have boys, so it's nice to have girls,” he added. “Girl power all the way!”
The singer and his wife, Rochelle, are already parents to a 3-year-old daughter, Ava, and McLean told ET that his little girl is “ecstatic” to be a big sister.
“She has her own little baby that she's been tucking under her shirt like she's pregnant!” he gushed. “She's like, swaddling her babies now… She loves it, she's so sweet and she's just an awesome kid.”
McLean revealed that his wife is due “literally just shy of a week after” the Backstreet Boys’ first run of their new Larger Than Life residency at Planet Hollywood's The Axis Theater in Las Vegas.
“Hopefully I'm not in the middle of the show and all like, 'I have to go!'” he laughed.
Rochelle later took to Twitter to jokingly chastise her husband for revealing the sex of their baby, apparently without discussing it with her first.
"When your husband announces the sex of your baby but forgets to tell you and you find out on Twitter! Lol," she tweeted Monday night, adding the hashtag, "#babygirlnumber2."
McLean also teased the 2017 residency shows, revealing that the performances will feature a little something for all Backstreet fans.
“If you've ever been to our Millennium concert or the Black and Blue concert, put those two concerts together and multiply it by 100,” McLean explained. “Add a little bit of glitz, and a little bit of glamour -- that'll be Vegas.”
Check out the singer’s mixed feelings about his kids listening to his music in the video below.
EXCLUSIVE: A.J. McLean Has Mixed Feelings About His 3-Year-Old Daughter Loving His Music
Laurie Hernandez continues to dominate the Dancing With the Stars stage, earning the season's first perfect score on Monday with an amazing tribute to Michael Jackson.
It was Cirque du Soleil week on DWTS and the Olympic gold medalist and her partner, Val Chmerkovskiy, showed off her wild side with an absolutely flawless jazz routine set to the King of Pop's "The Way You Make Me Feel," which blew the judges way.
Inspired by Cirque's best-selling show, Michael Jackson ONE, Hernandez and Chmerkovskiy did what so many before have failed to pull off: perfectly emulate Jackson's epic stage presence.
The 16-year-old Olympic gymnast rocked a hot pink mini-dress while her 30-year-old pro-partner did his best to keep up as Hernandez absolutely slayed.
Judge Julianne Hough couldn’t contain her excitement over Hernandez's amazing routine, telling her that Michael Jackson was the King of Pop, "but you are the Queen of the Ballroom!"
Judges Bruno Tonioli and Carrie Ann Inaba were equally thrilled. Inaba praised the pair for their raw energy and perfect execution with "every move perfectly defined."
The pair were speaking with DWTS co-host Erin Andrews when the judges held up three '10' cards, giving the couple the first perfect score of season 23, and Hernandez could not contain her shock and excitement.
PHOTOS: Complete List: 'Dancing with the Stars' Winners
ET's Nischelle Turner caught up with Hernandez backstage after the show, where she opened up about her acclaimed performance.
"I felt like I was in a real-life music video!" she exclaimed. The routine, which incorporated acrobatics and several moving set pieces, was one of the season's most memorable yet.
As for her perfect score, Hernandez explained why she was so incredibly stunned by all the love from the judges.
"I was so surprised, because we hadn't gotten a '9' yet, and so I was just, like, 'Wow, we might get our first '9's today!' And then they went '10,' '10,' '10,' and I was just like, 'Aaaahhh!!!'" she recalled.
The exciting, bombastic performance comes on the tail of Hernandez' trip to the White House with three other members of the "Final Five" just days ago.
Hernandez, along with fellow U.S. Olympic gymnasts Simone Biles, Aly Raisman and Madison Kocian, paid a visit to Washington, D.C., on Thursday, where they attended a ceremony with President Barack Obama, and took over the White House Instagram account to keep us updated on their presidential routine.
"It's a little nervewracking to meet the President of the United States, so we're getting into the zone the only way we know how," they captioned a pic of them stretching in a White House hallway.
On last week's DWTS, Hernandez and Chmerkovskiy delivered a passionate, mature tango that earned them immunity in their face-off against Derek Hough and Marilu Henner, as well as the second-highest score of the night.
Hernandez spoke with ET after the show last Monday, where she opened up about how she found the confidence she needed to pull off the racy routine. Check out the video below to hear more.
After weeks of teases, Candace Cameron Bure’s daughter Natasha Bure made her debut on The Voice!

Though Candace is best known for playing D.J. Tanner on Full House and now Fuller House, Natasha admitted her mom was a novice when it came to the music industry, revealing that “she’s not musically gifted.”
Candace said that Natasha’s singing aspirations are 100 percent her own dreams. “We’ve been hands off. This has been her thing,” The View co-host said. “We’ve stayed away, until right now, so this will be her accomplishment and nothing that we’ve done.”

Before Natasha took the stage, her emotions started to get the best of her and her parents were right there giving her words of encouragement. “Are you nervous? Let the tears come out. Get it out and then have a great time out there, OK? Don’t put any pressure on yourself,” Candace said as her daughter let the tears flow. “You’ll do great.”

Candace’s reaction, though, was priceless.

The Maroon 5 frontman suggested that the one thing she perhaps should work on is “getting your nerves together” because “there’s something beautiful there." Natasha admitted that her “mind isn’t nervous,” but sometimes her “body gets very nervous.”
“I’m really curious and really excited to see what we’re going to accomplish,” Levine said. “I’m really happy you’re on my team. Welcome!” We can’t wait either!
In August, Candace gushed over her daughter’s debut on The Voice, writing on Instagram “#ProudMama.”
The Voice airs Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
Amber Rose took to the Dancing With the Stars stage on Monday for the first time since speaking openly about feeling "body shamed" by judge Julianne Hough, and delivered a steamy tango performance for DWTS' Cirque du Soleil week.
Before Rose wowed the crowd with partner Maks Chmerkovskiy, the show's pre-taped package addressed the tensions between the two women. The root of their conflict occurred when Hough said that Rose's performance last week made her "uncomfortable," and Rose took that to meant Hough was uneasy with her body or her sexuality.
"It's not fair. All these girls are half-naked, and no one says anything to them," Rose told Chmerkovskiy in backstage footage played during the package.
"I'm just a normal girl, I have feelings too. I'm not a robot," the 32-year-old talk show host and model told the DWTS cameras in the pre-roll. "I was just really taken aback by what Julianne said. Hopefully she didn't mean it in that way."
For this week's performance, Rose got another chance to show her sultry side with a tango based on Cirque's sexiest show, Zumanity. And she couldn't have been more excited for the opportunity.
"This week, I'm just going to embrace my sexuality and not apologize for it," Rose said.
After her amazing, burlesque performance -- which included a table dance routine that might have been one of the most intimate numbers in recent DWTS memory -- Rose and Hough managed to hash things out during an emotional exchange in front of the cheering audience.
"We haven't had a chance to talk, and, like I said in the package, when you said that I felt very embarrassed, and I felt like you weren't talking about my dance, but if I misunderstood, than I apologize," Rose said, with a tremble in her voice.
"I'm a very positive person. I don't like to argue or bicker or make things weird, so moving forward I just want complete positive energy," she added.
After applauding Rose for her honesty and her apology, Hough explained what she had meant by her remarks.
"The thing that I love so much about dance is that dance is a universal platform for people to express themselves. Any person," Hough said. "As a judge on this show, I am here to solely judge you and everyone else in this competition for only the dancing, so I want you to know that."
As for Rose's erotic, powerful tango, Hough had nothing but love for its execution and stark, sexual honesty.
"This [dance], to me, is your essence. This is who you are. All of those wigs and the costumes and the themes, [tonight] you were stripped down, this is authentically you," Hough said. "This is your true essence, and you delivered that. You gave me the energy that I wanted to see."
Judges Bruno Tonioli and Carrie Ann Inaba agreed, heaping praise on the sexy routine. Rose and Chmerkovskiy earned a formidable score of 24 out of 30, placing them toward the top of the night's leader board.
Some of Rose's fans had an issue with Hough's remarks regarding her body shaming claims, arguing that the judge didn't actually apologize for what she said that made Rose feel shamed in the first place.
However, the model took to Twitter after the show to assure her followers that Hough did in fact apologize "for the way her comment came off," but that many couldn't hear it because "the crowd was clapping loud at the time."
For more on the heightened tensions between the talk show host and the DWTS judge, check out the video below.
Leave it to Jessica Alba to make a major mark on Fashion Week without even stepping foot on a runway.
The 35-year-old actress was practically glowing as she made her way to Paris Fashion Week events on Sunday, looking red hot in not just one but three different looks.
Our favorite of the bunch was a funky take on traditional preppy pieces. Alba paired an Oxford shirt -- which already screamed whimsy with its over-sized cut, feathered embroidery, and bell cuffs -- with a red lace midi skirt while attending the Valentino show, where she had a front row seat. She accessorized with a studded, quilted black handbag from the designer and killer open-toe booties, then finished off her look with bold red lips and old Hollywood waves.
We were delighted by the gorgeous Valentino skirt, and Alba clearly was too, twirling around in it alongside her pal, Kelly Sawyer.
Red was clearly the actress' color of choice while in the City of Light. For the fashion house's afterparty, Alba stunned in a low-cut crimson dress with butterfly sleeves that gave off high-fashion-meets-bohemian vibes, which truly is her m.o. A similar look was seen on the runway of that day's Resort 2017 show. She returned the part of her hair to the middle, but rocked the same bag and shoes from earlier. 
Earlier in the day, the mom gave a hint of what fiery fashion was to come as she walked around the Le Marais quarter of Paris in a patterned dress, black cardigan, and matching ankle booties.
The Sin City star even continued the trend the next day, wearing a maroon sundress with a blush Vince sweater while shopping at Kenzo on Monday.
We think Alba always looks stunning, but she admits that there have been some faux pas over the years. Find out which beauty trend she regrets trying in the video below.
Tori Spelling has been ordered to pay American Express her entire past due balance and then some.
According to court documents obtained by ET and dated Sept. 26, a judge ruled that the Beverly Hills, 90210 actress must pay AMEX $37,981.97 plus $855 in court fees, bringing her total to $38,836.97.
The credit card company sued Spelling in January for failure to pay her debts. At the time the lawsuit was filed, the company claimed that Spelling hadn't made a payment since June 26, 2015 and the payment in question, for $1,070, was returned.
Spelling has been open about her financial struggles in the past. In her 2013 memoir, Spelling It Like It Is, the 43-year-old mother-of-four admitted to having a "little shopping problem."
"It's no mystery why I have money problems," she wrote. "I grew up rich beyond anyone's dreams. Even when I try to embrace a simpler lifestyle, I can't seem to let go of my expensive tastes ... And then there's my little shopping problem ... I can't afford to live like this anymore. Our circumstances have changed. They say admitting the problem is the first step."
In July, ET obtained court documents showing that the state of California was going after Spelling and her husband Dean McDermott for nearly $260,000 in state taxes that allegedly went unpaid.
California placed a tax lien for $259,108.23 on the couple's property, which means they could go after any assets the couple owned or will own until the debt is paid off.
Watch the video below for more on Spelling and McDermott's financial woes.
Dakota Fanning recently revealed that she has called it quits with boyfriend, Jamie Strachan, and opened up about the “horrific” world of dating.
The 22-year-old actress candidly discusses her love life in the October issue of Town & Country.
EXCLUSIVE: Elle Fanning Reveals Why She’s Putting College on Hold
"The way I prefer to meet someone is through a friend," she says, explaining that means the guy in question "is most likely not a freak."
However, even with friends playing Cupid, the actress struggles with going on dates.
"I find dates, in general, horrific,” she admits in the interview, after confirming her split. “We have to sit there and ask these questions and pretend to eat a meal and it just feels so stiff."
Fanning and Strachan, a 35-year-old British model, first sparked dating rumors when they were photographed together in September 2013, while holding hands in New York City.
Although the couple, who had a 13-year age gap, attended the Met Gala together in May, they were spotted looking tense while out shopping in NYC in July.
Fanning didn’t divulge details of the break up, but noted she’s never been one to share too much of her personal life with the public.
“I was raised by very traditional Southern parents with Southern manners," she tells the magazine. "You don't air your dirty laundry to people that aren't your family or your friends.”
While she may be single for now, Fanning has plenty to keep her busy in her professional life.
She’s preparing to head to the Venice Film Festival to promote the film Brimstone, stars in the upcoming screen adaptation of Philip Roth’s novel, American Pastoral, and is set to produce an adaptation of Sylvia Path’s The Bell Jar in spring.
Fanning selected Kirsten Dunst to direct The Bell Jar, sharing that the pair have a close bond.
"I think that Kirsten and I have had a very similar experience, in that we started so young," Fanning tells T&C. "We've lived a couple of lifetimes. I just trust her."
See the American Pastoral trailer below.
The New York Mets were in A League of Their Own for their annual rookie dress-up day.
Before facing the Philadelphia Phillies on Saturday, the baseball team's rookies wore dresses and wigs inspired by the classic 1992 film.
"Really nice of the rookies to get up early this morning and get coffee for the vets," the Mets Twitter account posted on Saturday.
The team also tweeted a video of the players carrying out their errands.
Those dressed up as Racine Belles procured coffee, while those in Rockford Peaches uniforms picked up donuts.
The team might want to turn this practice into a game day tradition, considering the results. Hours later, the Mets beat the Phillies 5-3 to clinch a wild-card spot.
Tyler Posey and Bella Thorne are not hiding their affection!
The couple was spotted showing off some PDA while spending the day together in Studio City, California, over the weekend. Thorne, 18, rocked high-waisted cutoff jean shorts, while her 24-year-old beau wore Quiksilver orange board shorts for the sweet smooch.
Thorne shared another photo from the encounter to her Instagram on Monday, captioning it, "#mcm to this insanely talented punk bunny ⚡️🙌🏼💋 what up doggg #mine #mancrush #always."
On Saturday, Posey posted a pic of the two together to his own Instagram, writing, "Woahman crush every day. Sup homieeeeee."
Clearly, they've taken a liking to one another!
PHOTOS: Bella Thorne Leaves Little to the Imagination in Lacy Lingerie
The longtime friends were first spotted out together in a "date"-like situation last month -- following Thorne's August split from boyfriend Greg Sulkin. The actress rocked a bralette top while she and Posey went to dinner at Katsuya in downtown Los Angeles.
An eyewitness told ET at the time the two "couldn't stop smiling and laughing together," and definitely seemed to be more than buddies.
Watch the video below for more.
Angelina Jolie left her Malibu hideaway for an estate in Hidden Hills, California, overnight on Thursday.
The Oscar winner isn't the only famous person in the gated neighborhood. Her address is down the street from Kim Kardashian and Kanye West.
The new place should make her children -- Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8 -- feel right at home.
Jolie filed for divorce from Brad Pitt last month, and requested full custody of their six kids. The couple agreed to a temporary custody deal shortly after.
Watch the video below for a timeline on Pitt and Jolie's relationship and subsequent shocking split.
Say it with us, Lorelai Gilmore lovers: coffee, coffee, coffee!
As if it wasn't enough that Gilmore Girls will return with a four-part revival series on Netflix in November, the streaming service is giving us one more gift: the chance to visit Luke's Diner. Yes, really.
EXCLUSIVE: Milo Ventimiglia Spills on Jess' Return to Stars Hollow
Netflix is turning 250 cafes into Stars Hollow's famed diner for a one-day-only caffeinated affair on Wednesday, Oct. 5, giving away 250 12-ounce cups of coffee to fans. That means you better get there early -- the promo only runs from 7 a.m. to noon. Plus, everyone knows that Lorelai could consume that much coffee on her own.
Sadly, Luke won't be there to begrudgingly greet us with a pot of joe, a press release revealed that all of the stores will be "decked out with all the Luke's Diner essentials." We assume that means every proprietor will be wearing flannel and a backwards baseball cap -- blue or black only, of course.
All 50 states will be represented by at least one pop-up, and the full list can be found at TownOfStarsHollow.org. The two Los Angeles-area locations are in Studio City and Beverly Hills, so fingers crossed that cast members make a surprise appearance at one of those shops.
This is already 250 times cooler than when Netflix built a pop-up shop at VidCon earlier this summer because, you know, there was only one of those.
Does Oct. 5 sound familiar? It should for Gilmore Girls die-hards -- that's the date the drama premiered in 2000. Nostalgia at its finest!
We're not the only ones unreasonably excited about the series' revival. Check out what Lauren Graham (Lorelei) told ET about stepping into Lorelai's shoes again:
Toni Braxton is at home and resting after spending several days in a Los Angeles hospital.
The "Un-break My Heart" singer was undergoing treatment for her lupus, a rep for Braxton told ET on Monday, adding, "She is fine… she has been released and starts rehearsals for her upcoming tour this week."
PHOTOS: Stars Post Pics From Hospitals and Doctors' Offices
Initial reports said that Braxton had been hospitalized in serious condition, however her rep denies these claims, explaining, "She was not in serious condition, though lupus is a serious disease and must be monitored at all times."
The singer’s sister, Towanda Braxton, took to Twitter on Monday to assure fans that everything is alright, tweeting, "Thanks everyone for your concern, Toni is home safe & sound! She is currently home resting and getting ready for #TheHitsTour."
This is not the first time Braxton has been hospitalized while struggling with lupus. The 48-year-old GRAMMY winner was admitted twice in 2012 for "health issues related to lupus & blood clots," the singer told fans on Twitter.
Braxton first revealed her ongoing battle with the autoimmune disease to ET back in April 2011. "I have good days and bad days," she explained. "If you ever see me a little chunky it's because of all the steroids, all the shots and things and my medications. But today's a great day. I'm a little thinner today… so I feel really good."
In the wake of Kim Kardashian West being tied up and robbed at gunpoint in Paris, France, on Sunday, ET has details on the luxury apartment where the crime took place.
The apartment, which was originally described as a "hotel room" in an official statement from Kim's spokesperson, operates as a sort of Airbnb for wealthy people.
In the past, the two-story complex has been frequented by stars like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna. Kim and husband Kanye West prefer the 3,700-square-foot penthouse and stayed there when their whirlwind wedding trip stopped in Paris two years ago.
The luxury apartment costs $17,000 per night and is located near major couture houses in the city's 8th district. According to Billboard, the building is called Hotel de Pourtales, but is known locally as "No Address Hotel."
There are nine apartments in the building, which is the former family home of Count Alexander Pourtales. While it was originally built in 1839, the residence fell into disrepair before French businessman Alexandre Allard bought the building and the annex next door in 2004 for a reported $38 million.
In addition to the 35-year-old reality star, brands were also using the complex this week as well. Allard's brand, Faith Connexion, and Uggs held press days there on Monday despite the break-in the night before.
The suspects in connection with the robbery reportedly left with at least one ring estimated to be worth $4 million and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items.
Watch the video below for more on the crime.
Kim Kardashian West tearfully begged for her life while being robbed in Paris, France, on Sunday, a source close to the reality star tells ET.
The 35-year-old mother of two was held at gunpoint and tied up inside the luxury apartment she was staying at for Paris Fashion Week.
“Kim is very, very shaken up,” the source says. “She thought she was going to die. They put a gun to her head while they were searching the apartment. She was crying, begging them for her life. It’s an absolute awful story. One of the most terrifying experiences of her life.”
“She is very upset and can’t stop thinking about what could have happened,” the source adds. “She is at home now with [husband] Kanye [West] and [their children] North and Saint. Friends have been popping in all day to visit her and be there for her.”
As for how the robbers managed to gain access into the apartment, the source reveals a staff member at the complex was forced to escort the intruders up to the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star's residence.
“The concierge walked them up into the apartment with a gun to his head,” says the source.
The suspects reportedly left with an estimated $10 million worth of jewelry, including one ring worth $4 million, and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items.
Kim has since returned to New York City, where she was met by Kanye at the airport, and is “badly shaken,” according to her rep. She is expected to remain in NYC all this week.
See more on the shocking robbery in the video below.
Sometimes simple gestures are the sweetest!
Barack Obama celebrated his wedding anniversary with super adorable messages to his wife, Michelle, on social media on Monday.
The 55-year-old politician posted a cute, candid shot on Facebook, showing the couple giggling while dancing together at the 2009 Nobel Banquet in Oslo, Norway. “Dancing through 24 years. Happy anniversary,” the U.S. commander in chief wrote.
Over on Twitter, POTUS shared a snap of himself giving the first lady a peck on the cheek after the State of Union address in 2010, with the caption, “Side-by-side for 24 years. Here’s to many more. #happyanniversary.”
Celebs were quick to share their well-wishes on social media, including Grey’s Anatomy star Debbie Allen, Scream Queens actress Niecy Nash and singer Usher, who commended the pair’s “beautiful bond.”
READ: President Obama Writes Powerful Op-Ed on Feminism, Raising His Daughters
The couple met at a Chicago law firm in 1989, after Michelle was appointed Barack’s advisor.
They spent their first date visiting the Art Institute and watching Spike Lee’s Do The Right Thing, and have been inseparable ever since. “We clicked right away...by the end of the date it was over...I was sold,” Michelle once said.
Since then, their romantic moments have continued to inspire #relationship goals, like when Michelle was snapped wiping lipstick off her husband’s cheek after kissing him during the National Prayer Breakfast in 2010, or that time they were caught on the KissCam at a basketball game during the 2012 Olympics.
And let’s not forget the time the pair exchanged love poems on The Ellen DeGeneres Show!
“Roses are red, violets are blue, you are the president and I am your boo,” Michelle, 52, hilariously recited on the talk show.
POTUS’ response? “I Obamacare about you more than you even know!”
The two have also proved they share a fun sense of humor when it comes to their relationship. See Michelle impersonate Barack at the dinner table in the video below.
Kim Kardashian West has many loved ones by her side.
The reality star returned to New York City on Monday after robbed at gunpoint and tied up for over $10 million worth of jewelry over the weekend, while staying at a luxury apartment in Paris, France.
Kim, 35, has been visited by several of her friends, including TV personality and wife of NBA Player Carmelo Anthony, La La Anthony, as well as Jonathan Cheban and Simon Huck, who sometimes appear on Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
Kim's friends arrived separately and did not speak to the press before going inside.
Kris Jenner, who's with her daughter, gave a thumbs up to reporters to indicate that she was doing OK, according to AP.
Earlier this morning, Kanye West, who stopped his NYC performance mid-song Sunday night due to a "family emergency," picked his wife up from Teterboro Airport in New Jersey, where she arrived via a private plane that a source tells ET used to belong to Tom Cruise.
Kim joined Kanye in the back of a Mercedes Benz, and the couple headed to New York with a motorcade, which our source says included about 10 SUVs, the Benz in the middle and 10 more SUVs behind it.
NYPD vehicles were parked outside the couple's apartment in the city, along with several barricades. A source also spotted one of E!'s cameras at the residence, which could mean Kim is continuing to film her family's reality show.
"All of us at E! are incredibly thankful that Kim Kardashian West is safe, and we send her and her family our love and support," said an E! spokesperson on Monday in a statement to ET. "Keeping Up With the Kardashians was not filming at the time of the robbery. Our focus right now is entirely on Kim's well-being."
Armed, masked men entered the luxury apartment Kim was staying at in Paris, France, during Paris Fashion Week on Sunday night, and held her at gunpoint. Reports claim that $10 million worth of jewelry was stolen from the mother of two, including one ring worth $4 million, and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items.
Kim "is badly shaken but physically unharmed," said her spokesperson to ET after the incident.
"No security was there in the apartment with Kim when [the robbery] happened," a source claims. "The bodyguard usually stays with them at the apartment, but he was with Kourtney when [it] all went down.”
Meanwhile, Kim's kids, North and Saint West, were in NYC with Kanye and a nanny when the robbery occurred.
Watch the video below to see what Kim's friend, Chrissy Teigen, had to say about the horrifying situation.
Thankfully, Kim Kardashian West's two kids were safely in New York City when she was robbed at gunpoint in Paris on Sunday.
A source close to the 35-year-old reality star tells ET that both 9-month old Saint and 3-year-old North were in NYC this weekend with their dad, Kanye West, a family friend and their nanny. More specifically, North was at a performance of the musical Matilda. A rep for the Broadway production based on the classic children's book by Roald Dahl confirms to ET that North -- joined by two other children, a nanny and security guard -- saw the matinee showing of Matilda on Sunday afternoon.
After the show, the group went backstage to meet cast members of the production, though Saint was not present, the rep adds.
Kim returned to NYC on Monday and was quickly reunited with Kanye, who abruptly stopped his show at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York, mid-song on Sunday, citing a "family emergency." NYPD vehicles were outside the couple's apartment in the city, along with several barricades, a source tells ET.
Kim's mom, Kris Jenner, as well as Kris' boyfriend, Corey Gamble, were later spotted at the residence. The mother of two's close pals, La La Anthony and Jonathan Cheban, also paid Kim a visit shortly after her return to the U.S.
Her sisters, Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner, were in France for Paris Fashion Week at the time of the incident, but it's not known if they too have returned to the U.S.
Our source spotted one of E!'s cameras at Kim and Kanye's residence on Monday, which could mean Kim is continuing to film Keeping Up With the Kardashians. But in a statement on Monday to ET, an E! spokesperson said that the hit show was not filming at the time of Kim's robbery.
"All of us at E! are incredibly thankful that Kim Kardashian West is safe, and we send her and her family our love and support," the statement reads. "Keeping Up With the Kardashians was not filming at the time of the robbery. Our focus right now is entirely on Kim's well-being."
Reports claim that $10 million worth of jewelry was stolen from Kim on Sunday, when armed, masked men dressed as police officers entered the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris during Paris Fashion Week. Stolen items reportedly include one ring worth $4 million, and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items.
A number of celebrities have shown their support for Kim after the scary incident, including actress Salma Hayek, who pointed out that, thankfully, North was not present during the robbery.
"I know it's terrible, but thank God she's OK," Hayek -- who's married to French businessman Francois Henri-Pinault -- told the Associated Press about Kim when asked about the incident. "And thank God her little girl was not here so… I know it's horrific, but at least there were some good points in that the little girl was not here and that she's fine."
Watch the video below for more celeb reaction, including Late Late Show host James Corden and Kim's close pal, model Chrissy Teigen, shaming her haters.
Reese Witherspoon was a total fangirl for Dolly Parton when she met the country music legend during her concert at the Hollywood Bowl on Sunday night.
And even on Monday, she was still reeling over the experience. "Today's #MondayMuse?! The incomparable @dollyparton, who made my musical dreams come true last night!" Witherspoon captioned a photo of herself posing with Parton. "You're a legend Dolly. I will always love you! #DreamsDoComeTrue #DollywoodBowl."
She later Instagrammed an older photo of the 70-year-old musician, writing: "Today's mood.... courtesy of last night's @DollyParton concert."
The 40-year-old actress -- who won an Oscar for her portrayal of country music icon June Carter in Walk the Line -- also got quite the surprise when Parton gave her a shout-out during the performance. "Nearly passed out when @DollyParton said my name," she tweeted.
Even before the concert started, Witherspoon was sharing her excitement over getting to see the "9 to 5" singer hit the stage. "Can't contain our excitement ... @dollyparton here we come!!!" she captioned a video of herself and friend Shannon giddily anticipating Parton's performance.
"It's written all over my face, couldn't be happier at the #DollywoodBowl!!" she exclaimed in another caption.
Witherspoon also posed with her friends and a tote bag that read: "What would Dolly do?"
"Girls night with these ladies and @dollyparton," she wrote. "Doesn't get much better than this!"
While Parton didn't mention Witherspoon by name on social media, she did share an Instagram pic from the concert. "The stars are out in Hollywood! #pureandsimpletour," she wrote.
EXCLUSIVE: Dolly Parton Gushes Over Katy Perry ACM Awards Duet - 'This Might Strike Up a Whole New Thing!'
Last month, Witherspoon revealed to ET that she's also a fan of Drake's music, regardless of what her three kids think. "I think I embarrass them terribly when I try to sing Drake songs," she admitted with a laugh. "I don't stop singing. I enjoy it."
Zosia Mamet is married!
The Girls star tied the knot with longtime boyfriend Evan Jonigkeit over the weekend, sharing a sweet message for her newlywed husband on Instagram on Sunday.
"@evanj550 my best friend, my soulmate, my HUSBAND, I love you. Here's to forever and a day," the 28-year-old actress wrote alongside a sweet photo of bride-and-groom rubber duckies.
EXCLUSIVE: The Cast of ‘Girls’ Looks Ahead to Final Season and a Long Goodbye
Jonigkeit, who has appeared in such films as X-Men: Days of Future Past and Whisky Tango Foxtrot, shared the same photo, with the caption, "Last night I married my best friend. @zosiamamet."
The wedding bells came after an emotional week for the Girls cast, who recently finished filming their sixth and final season of the HBO show.
MORE: Lena Dunham Mourns End of 'Girls' With Sweet Instagram Tribute and ’45 Minutes of Sobbing’
"To say I don't enjoy goodbyes is an understatement," show star and creator Lena Dunham shared in an emotional Instagram post. "I know I'm not alone in the Girls family when I say this is the end of the largest and most potent chapter of my life so far."
Well, we are wishing Mamet well as she moves from that time in her life to the next. Congrats to the happy couple!
EXCLUSIVE: Lena Dunham and Andrew Rannells Revisit Their College Youth in ‘Girls’ Deleted Scene
Kim Kardashian West's bodyguard was not with the reality star when she was robbed at gunpoint on Sunday night in an apartment she was staying at in Paris, France, but he was still hard at work.
A source tells ET that Pascal and the driver dropped Kim off at her apartment through the garage and Pascal went back out with Kourtney Kardashian, who met up with their sister, Kendall Jenner.  Kourtney was staying with Kim at the apartment, while Kendall was at the Four Seasons hotel.
"No security was there in the apartment with Kim when [the robbery] happened," the source claims. "The bodyguard usually stays with them at the apartment, but he was with Kourtney when [it] all went down.”
Pascal was, however, with Kim when she arrived with husband Kanye West and mother Kris Jenner back at the couple's New York City apartment. Last week, he was also the man who took down infamous prankster Vitalii Seduik after he lunged at the 35-year-old star last Thursday.
"My security @PascalDuvier is a G," Kim tweeted after the incident.
PHOTOS: Kanye West Rushes to Kim Kardashian's Side as She Returns to New York After Paris Robbery
Like Kim and her sisters, Pascal is also quite active on social media, though he has not tweeted or posted anything on Instagram since the robbery.
The bodyguard appears to respect the Kardashians' privacy quite a bit, as the tweet pinned to the top of his Twitter account reads: "Who ever asks me to deliver a message to a client of mine will be muted and blocked. I'm sick of that sh*t!! I'm not a messenger!!"
Pascal's background as a bodyguard is quite extensive. According to his LinkedIn account, his client list includes The Black Eyed Peas, Ciara, David Guetta and Frank Ocean. He has been to Iceland, Cuba and Armenia with Kim and her family, and at times can be spotted on Keeping Up With the Kardashians. Pascal -- who rarely leaves the house without a fanny pack -- has been working with Kim since 2013 and Kanye since 2012.
Pascal has also worked a series of tours for different artists, including Kanye and Fergie, and has protected people at the GRAMMYs and the Golden Globe Awards.
In addition to protecting celebrities, he is also the CEO and Chairman for Protect Security, and has two daughters.
ET has reached out to Protect Security for comment.
On Sunday night, according to French Judicial sources who spoke with CBS Radio News, five people dressed as law enforcement officers went to where Kim was staying and got access to her room and robbed her. Tying her up and pointing a gun at her, the individuals robbed Kim of a reported $10 million worth of jewelry. Here's more on this story.
Kim Kardashian West's scary robbery in Paris was not caught on Keeping Up With the Kardashians' cameras.
In a statement on Monday to ET, an E! spokesperson said that the hit show was not filming at the time.
"All of us at E! are incredibly thankful that Kim Kardashian West is safe, and we send her and her family our love and support," the statement reads. "Keeping Up With the Kardashians was not filming at the time of the robbery. Our focus right now is entirely on Kim's well-being."
Armed, masked men entered the luxury apartment Kim was staying at in Paris, France, during Paris Fashion Week on Sunday night, and held her at gunpoint. Reports claim that $10 million worth of jewelry was stolen from the mother of two, including one ring worth $4 million, and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items.
Kim "is badly shaken but physically unharmed," the 35-year-old reality superstar's spokesperson told ET about how she's doing after the incident.
On Monday, Kim returned to New York City to be with her husband, Kanye West, who abruptly stopped his show at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York, mid-song on Sunday, citing a "family emergency."  Her sisters, Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner, were also in France for Paris Fashion Week at the time of the incident, but it's not known if they too have returned to the U.S.
“Pascal [Duvier, Kim's bodyguard] dropped Kim off at the apartment around 10:30 p.m. [on Sunday night]," a source tells ET about the timing of the events prior to the robbery. "They dropped her off through the garage and then he took Kourtney back out. Kourtney went out with [model] Jasmine [Sanders] to a party. Kendall was at another event in Paris."
Kourtney, 37, had also been staying at the apartment with Kim during Paris Fashion Week.
"Kourtney come out of the party looking a bit hysterical around midnight," the source says. "She looked really worried. She ran into the car and the car sped back to the house."
NYPD vehicles were outside Kim and Kanye's apartment in the NYC on Monday, along with several barricades, a source told ET. The source also spotted one of E!'s cameras at the residence, which could mean Kim is continuing to film her family's reality show.
Watch below:
Teresa Giudice is ready to move past her legal woes.
The Real Housewives of New Jersey star opened up on Bravo's Watch What Happens Live on Sunday about why she considers the word "criminal" to be a four-letter word.
"I don't consider myself that," she explained to host Andy Cohen. "I don't even want to say that word."
While appearing on the program, Teresa also gave an update on her husband, Joe Giudice, who began his 41-month prison sentence in March. The two pleaded guilty to multiple charges of fraud in March 2014, but arranged to have their time served separately so one of them could always be with their daughters.
EXCLUSIVE: Teresa Giudice Says Husband Joe Is Getting Six-Pack Abs in Prison, Sends Her X-Rated Emails
Teresa said that while Joe never watched RHONJ while free, he's been keeping up while behind bars.
"He never watched at home, and now he's watching it there," the 44-year-old reality star shared.
EXCLUSIVE: Why Joe Giudice Says Going to Jail is 'the Easy Part'
Meanwhile, Teresa has been focusing on her health since being released last year.
Earlier this month, the mom of four showed off her fit figure on a family beach trip.
Watch the video below for more.
A number of celebrities are showing Kim Kardashian West support after the 35-year-old reality superstar was held up at gunpoint by masked men who entered the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France.
While Late Late Show host James Corden was one of the first to shame Kim's haters, the mother of two's close friend, model Chrissy Teigen, quickly defended her and commented on the difficulties of dealing with fame.
"Some s**t just isn't funny. I see you trying, but it isn't," she tweeted on Sunday night, when the news broke. "Fame is interesting. Celebs are supposed to love you guys while also knowing you'd make a meme of our dead bodies to get retweets."
Teigen later responded to some Twitter users who criticized her stance, adding that she wasn't "trying to be condescending."
"I dunno. It's hard to explain because everyone thinks money and fame is pure awesome, so it just sounds whiny. I get it, trust me. Go off," she tweeted. "It is just a weird little world that I cannot expect anyone to get. I know it seems super awesome and laughable. I know. I myself think it is bonkers."
"No one is begging you for sympathy. I know the game plan is to naturally hate celebrities," she added. "Please do not think that I think celebrities are special snowflakes. I just miss empathy, in general, for everyone."
Salma Hayek talked to the Associated Press on Monday about the incident -- which the actress called "horrific" -- and was asked if Kim's experience made her more hesitant to bring jewelry to Paris.
"I don't have that much jewelry in Paris. I don't," Hayek said, who's married to French businessman Francois-Henri Pinault. "I love Paris but I don't have the jewelry here, because I don't live here. I come, but I don't live here. I know it's terrible, but thank God she's OK. Thank God she's OK. That's the only thing I can say, because it could have been worse."
"And thank God her little girl was not here so… I know it's horrific, but at least there were some good points in that the little girl was not here and that she's fine," she continued.
Interestingly enough, Piers Morgan -- who Kim has clashed with in the past, specifically about posting naked selfies -- also publicly showed his compassion.
"Feel very sorry for @KimKardashian," the British journalist tweeted. "Must have been a terrifying experience."
Singer Leona Lewis showed her support, after she dealt with a traumatic event in 2009, when the singer was punched in the face during a book signing.
"Years later I'm still personally dealing with trauma after being attacked," Lewis shared. "We should be sending love to @KimKardashian. It's an awful ordeal."
Of course, former Hills star Spencer Pratt had a few thoughts on the situation.
"Obviously there is nothing funny about this," he tweeted. "Messing with Kim is attack on America! France better make this right. For real tho where is apology from French president."
"I'm furious Paris police didn't have police protection for Kim especially after that scum assaulted her earlier in the week," he added, referencing infamous prankster Vitalii Sediuk attacking Kim in Paris last week.
Sherri Shepherd, Steve Harvey, Tom Green and more also tweeted about the robbery.
Kim is "badly shaken but physically unharmed" after the scary incident, her spokesperson told ET. On Monday, she returned to New York City to be with her husband, Kanye West, who abruptly stopped his show at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York,  mid-song on Sunday, citing a "family emergency."
Watch below:
Kim Kardashian West returned to New York City to be with her husband, Kanye West, on Monday morning, after she was robbed at gunpoint and tied up while at the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France.
Kim landed at Teterboro Airport in New Jersey in a private plane that a source tells ET used to belong to Tom Cruise.  The mother of two was then picked up by Kanye, who was in the back of a Mercedes Benz, and the two headed into NYC with a sizable motorcade, according to a source.
The source says that the motorcade included about 10 SUVs, the Benz in the middle and 10 more SUVs behind it.  Each vehicle, according to the source, had double flashers on it and two bodyguards riding along. The motorcade drove "straight from the airport through the Lincoln Tunnel in one straight line" and "didn't allow any cars to break in." While no NYPD vehicles were spotted in the motorcade, the source did say that it looked "presidential."
NYPD vehicles were, however, outside the couple's apartment in the city, along with several barricades. The source also spotted one of E!'s cameras at the residence, which could mean Kim is continuing to film her family's reality show.
Earlier that morning, Kanye was seen leaving the apartment, wearing a teal jacket and black Adidas track pants.
He later arrived back at the residence with Kim -- who was wearing purple pants, black high-heel boots and a black crop top -- and her mother, Kris Jenner, who was escorted by her boyfriend, Corey Gamble.
According to French Judicial sources who spoke with CBS Radio News, five people dressed as law enforcement officers went to where Kim was staying and two of them got access to her room.
The five suspects reportedly left with, at least, one ring estimated to be worth $4 million and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items. CBS Radio News adds that it's not known how much of the jewelry was actually owned by Kim, and how much was on loan to her for Paris Fashion Week.
Kim's rep told ET that the 35-year-old reality star was "badly shaken" after the robbery, but "physically unharmed." The incident took place at the same apartment that Kim and Kanye stayed at before their 2014 wedding in Florence, Italy.
Milo Ventimiglia couldn't be prouder of his NBC hit, This Is Us.
The 39-year-old actor stopped by The Ellen DeGeneres Show -- airing Monday -- when he was actually interviewed by Miley Cyrus, who filled in for DeGeneres while the comedian was under the weather. Ventimiglia talked about his new family drama, which drew more than 10 million viewers to its debut earlier this month. The series has already scored a full-season pickup, NBC announced last Tuesday, bringing its total episode count to 18.
"It's got heart," Ventimiglia said about the show's appeal. "You know what I love about it? It's hopeful. There's a whole landscape of you know, aliens invading planets, and scandal, and this is inherently good."
"And it's inclusive -- of, like, race and gender, and age and everything," he added passionately, as Cyrus high-fived him. "It's a great show."
The Gilmore Girls star also couldn't help but gush about his co-star, Mandy Moore, who plays his wife.
"She's incredible, man," he marveled.
Ventimiglia later gamely raised money for Breast Cancer Awareness Month, stripping down and getting in the Splash Tank. Check out the handsome actor going shirtless for a good cause.
ET spoke to This Is Us creator Dan Fogelman last week, who previewed what's next for this season's big breakout hit.
"The next three episodes are really, really strong and there’s an emotional response to the characters and the material," Fogelman told ET exclusively. "Hopefully, in its own unique way, that can draw people in a different way to TV, like the way I was drawn to it as a little kid.”
Watch the video below to see why you'll fall in love with This Is Us actress Chrissy Metz, who endearingly plays Kate, a woman struggling with her weight, eating habits and body image.
Things are getting real on Oxygen's Strut.
While the Whoopi Goldberg-produced series centering on transgender models has its fair share of drama, Tuesday's episode is on a whole other level.
ET has an exclusive sneak peek from this week's episode, in which Ren sees her absentee father, Ron, for the first time since her transition.
"I feel like I'm not really ready," she says to the camera before meeting up with her father at a photo shoot. "Letting him in to my full life, the worst case scenario would be he would feel probably disappointed, like he didn't do a good job as a parent."
Needless to say, the meeting isn't exactly smooth sailing.
"Hey, they got me a little dressed up for this. I hardly even recognized you. You can probably say the same," says Ren, who transitioned after she moved out of her parents' house.
"What's going on?" asks Ron, clearly on edge about the meeting. 
"Not much. How have you been?" Ren replies.
The two engage in stilted small talk for the next several minutes, while Ron has trouble adjusting to his daughter's new look.
"I feel stupid. It's embarrassing and awkward," Ren says to the camera, reflecting on their tense meeting. "This isn't what I normally do in my free time, or how I normally ever look in my free time. This is what my career is."
It's when Ren's fellow models start asking Ron how he feels seeing his daughter that things take a heartbreaking turn.
Watch the rest of the clip to find out what happens.
Strut airs Tuesdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on Oxygen.
Martin is back!
Legendary comedian Martin Lawrence returns to the stage for his first stand-up special in 14 years, Doin’ Time: Uncut, and ET has your exclusive first look at the DVD trailer.
MORE: 9 Black Sitcoms From the '90s We Need on Netflix Now
“Martin Lawrence Doin’ Time: Uncut is worth the wait,” executive producer Michael Green tells ET in a statement. “Fans will love it and a new generation will discover why Martin has such a passionate following. We’ve been working with Martin for over 20 years, so this is a very special project for all of us as well.”
The special, filmed live at the historic Orpheum Theater in Los Angeles, arrives on DVD and digital on Tuesday, Oct. 11. It was directed by David Raynr, and executive produced by Lawrence and Studio71.
Get ready, Matt LeBlanc is returning to network television.
The Friends alum stars in CBS’ new comedy, Man With a Plan, and the 49-year-old actor is ready to take back the sitcom throne. ET has the exclusive first look at the brand new promos, which debut on CBS this week, with LeBlanc at the helm.
Man With a Plan centers on a contractor (LeBlanc) who starts spending more time at home when his wife (Liza Snyder) goes back to work and discovers that parenting is the toughest job out there.
LeBlanc’s new show films on the CBS Radford lot in Studio City, California, just steps away from where his former Friends co-star Matthew Perry shoots his own CBS comedy, The Odd Couple.
EXCLUSIVE: Matt LeBlanc on His 'Friends' Reunion With Matthew Perry: It's Weird Not Running Lines With Him

In August, LeBlanc opened up to ET about seeing Perry every day at work.
“That’s great to see him there and it’s funny to see him on a lot and not run lines with him,” LeBlanc told ET. “It’s just strange for me.”
“It’s like, ‘What scene are you -- why are you out here? Oh no, no, no, you’re on a different show now!’ That was 20 years ago, nevermind!” he added.
Man With a Plan premieres Monday, Oct. 24 at 8:30 p.m. ET/PT on CBS.
Sheryl Sandberg is remembering her late husband, Dave Goldberg, on what would have been his 49th birthday.
The 47-year-old Lean In author took to Facebook on Sunday to share an emotional tribute to Goldberg on what she explained was also Erev Rosh Hashanah, the Jewish New Year,  when  followers say prayers celebrating the "birthday of the world."  Goldberg died suddenly last May while the couple was vacationing in Mexico, after he suffered a head trauma after falling from a treadmill. The two had been married for 11 years, and had two children together.
"As my children and I do every day, we miss him and mourn that he was taken from us so suddenly and so soon," Sandberg writes, sharing a happy pic of the two. "We miss his smile, his generosity, his wisdom, and his love."
Sandberg shared that on Erev Rosh Hashanah, people recommit to being better and working harder to be more just, equal, compassionate, and kind -- traits that Goldberg exemplified.
"For all of us who knew and loved Dave, this is the perfect spirit to honor his memory," Sandberg writes. "Dave set an example we all still strive to live up to."
"Dave, the world is a better place for the years you lived -- and we will always celebrate the day of your birth," she continued. "I love you, Dave."
Last June, the Facebook COO wrote about her loss one month after Goldberg's death, noting, "I have lived thirty years in these thirty days. I am thirty years sadder. I feel like I am thirty years wiser."
"I think when tragedy occurs, it presents a choice," she added. "You can give in to the void, the emptiness that fills your heart, your lungs, constricts your ability to think or even breathe. Or you can try to find meaning. .... When I can, I want to choose life and meaning."
PICS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Sandberg is now reportedly dating Activision Blizzard video games billionaire Bobby Kotick. Sandberg and Kotick had reportedly been friends for years, before their friendship turned romantic earlier this year.
Watch below:
Chandler Powell got his khakis!
Bindi Irwin and her 19-year-old boyfriend joined ET's Cameron Mathison at the Australia Zoo, where the 18-year-old wildlife conservationist shared a sweet story about the special moment when she first saw her beau donning the family garb.
"It's this really big thing for me," she adorably explained. "It was kind of one of those moments that was a real defining moment for me, because you know, it's only the people who are the closest to us that get their khakis."
"So it was kind of like, this really big step," Bindi added, telling her boyfriend, "I love seeing you in khaki now. It makes me so happy."
That is so unbelievably sweet!
EXCLUSIVE: Bindi Irwin Talks Life After 'Dancing With the Stars,' Calls Boyfriend Chandler Powell the 'Sunshine' in Her Life
And the very first place Chandler put on his khakis? Catching crocodiles with his girlfriend!
"The very first place you got to wear your khakis was on the croc trip," Bindi remembered. "It was a cool way to break in your khakis."
“Yeah, that was incredible," Chandler added. "Last month, we were up in far north Queensland on the Steve Irwin Wildlife Reserve, and we spent a whole month just catching crocodiles in the wild."
Well, it seems like Bindi is making a real wildlife expert of her man!
Watch the video below to see Bindi make a promise to Cameron to teach him about zoo life.
Love square?
Too Close to Home's Brody (Brock O'Hurn) seems to have acquired yet another admirer in Monday's episode of TLC's soapy drama, but don't worry -- it's not another one of Anna's sisters.
This time, Brody's buff bod and flowing locks seem to have captured the heart of someone new in town: Victor (Charles Justo).
ET has the exclusive first look from the episode, in which the two characters meet for the first time. Needless to say, Victor's affection seems to be a little one-sided.
"Oh my God, I must have died and went to heaven. Are you Jesus?" a wounded Victor says as he first lay eyes on Brody.
"No, I'm Brody," the 6'7" hunk replies. "What's your name?"
"I'm Victor. So sorry you had to see me like this, I'm normally cute… Before I fall in love, did you do this?" Victor asks, pointing to his bandaged abdomen.
"No, my Daddy did," answers Brody, seemingly unaffected by Victor's advances. "Are you in any pain?"
"All my life, honey, but this I would live for," Victor manages to utter back.
As for just how Victor ended up wounded in Brody's house? Watch the rest of the scene to find out.
Too Close to Home airs Mondays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on TLC.
We can't exactly blame Victor for his little crush on Brody. See why in the video below.
Solange Knowles celebrated the release of her first album since 2012, Seat At the Table, by also coming out with two new music videos on Sunday night.
The visuals for "Cranes in the Sky" and "Don't Touch My Hair" were co-directed by Knowles and her husband, Alan Ferguson. “I am completely overwhelmed with gratitude and humbled by your love and support for #ASeatAtTheTable. Completely overwhelmed with gratitude,” the 30-year-old singer tweeted. “You guys are literally making my arm pits/ palms sweat so much, lol. I’m so damn excited !!! Thank youuuuuuuuu!!!!”
PHOTOS: Solange Knowles Loses Gorgeous Wedding Ring at Mardi Gras Parade
Like her sister Beyonce's wildly popular visual album Lemonade, Knowles' music videos look like performance art pieces filled with beautiful costumes and choreography. In one scene from "Cranes in the Sky," Knowles is seen wearing nothing but gold body paint while seated on the side of a mountain.
During an interview for Saint Heron conducted by her mother, Tina Lawson, and writer Judnick Mayard, Knowles explained the meaning behind “Don’t Touch My Hair,” stating that her “hair is incredibly spiritual, and, energetically, it really encompasses and expresses who we are.”
Seat At the Table has already received quite a bit of critical acclaim since its release on Friday, with several celebrities tweeting out their praises of the album, Beyonce included. "Congrats to my sister on creating this beautiful work of art," Queen Bey Instagrammed. "I could not be more proud of you @saintrecords."
Lena Dunham, Calvin Harris, Missy Elliott and Rashida Jones also spoke out on social media in support of Seat At the Table.
New reports claim that $10 million worth of jewelry was stolen from Kim Kardashian during Sunday night’s robbery at  the luxury apartment she was staying at in Paris, France.
The 35-year-old reality star's rep told ET that Kim -- who was also attacked last week by infamous prankster Vitalii Sediuk -- is "badly shaken but physically unharmed" after she was held up at gunpoint.
According to French Judicial sources who spoke with CBS Radio News correspondent Elaine Cobbe, five people dressed as law enforcement officers went to where Kim was staying and two of them got access to her room. Cobbe notes that the French media is reporting that Kim, along with a concierge, were tied up during the robbery. A source close to the reality star also told ET that she was tied up while being held up at gunpoint.
The five suspects reportedly left with, at least, one ring estimated to be worth $4 million and a jewelry box with another $6 million worth of items. CBS Radio News adds that it's not known how much of the jewelry was actually owned by Kim, and how much was on loan to her for Paris Fashion Week.
According to the Associated Press, the individuals got away on bikes.
The mayor of Paris, Ann Hidalgo, condemned the attacks on Monday morning in a tweet, and welcomed Kim back to the city any time, insisting that Paris was safe for tourists.
As news was breaking of the robbery, Kim's husband, Kanye West, cut his festival performance short on Sunday night in Queens, New York, citing a "family emergency." Kim's sisters, Kourtney Kardashian and Kendall Jenner, were also in France for Paris Fashion Week at the time of the incident, but it's not known if they too left France.
A source close Kim tells ET that she left France on Monday after being interviewed by investigators, and is set to arrive in New York City.
Marion Cotillard stunned in a chic white, ruffled top at the Christian Dior show during Paris Fashion Week.
The long-sleeved ensemble hid her burgeoning baby bump (for the most part) while she walked the grounds at the Musee Rodin in Paris on Friday.
PHOTOS: Celeb Pregnancy Style
The actress rocked a black-and-white patterned slip under her billowing white top, and complemented the look with a pair of sleek black heels.
Wearing her hair pulled back into a tight ponytail, Cotillard chose to forgo jewelry and accessories, save for a black Dior clutch.
The 41-year-old French Oscar winner, who was a brand ambassador for Dior, announced she was pregnant with her second child one week ago, while denying rumors that she was involved in a romantic affair with her Allied co-star, Brad Pitt.
In an Instagram message addressing the rampant speculation, Cotillard heaped praise on her longtime partner, French filmmaker Guillaume Canet, with whom she shares a 5-year-old son, Marcel.
"Many years ago, I met the man of my life, father of our son and of the baby we are expecting," Cotillard shared. "He is my love, my best friend, the only one that I need."
Cotillard's attendance at the Christian Dior show marks her first public appearance since she shared the news of her pregnancy. For more on her announcement, check out the video below.
Blake Lively just welcomed her second child with husband Ryan Reynolds last week, but that didn't keep her from attending her friend's wedding on Sunday!
The 29-year-old actress shared a sweet pic on Instagram congratulating her former assistant, Jessica Snyder, on her happy day, just a few days after giving birth to baby no. 2.
“Most beautiful bride on the planet,” Lively captioned the pic of her smooching Snyder’s cheek. “And the best friend I could ask for. @jessicarose617 thank you for being EVERYTHING. I love you. ❤️❤️❤️❤️.”
Snyder and her fiance, Selwyn Cummings, tied the knot at Tribeca Rooftop in New York City, and Lively shared another pic of her friend’s “KILLER details,” including her gorgeous engagement ring, perfect manicure and stunning Marchesa wedding gown. 
A source confirmed to ET last week that Lively and Reynolds had welcomed their second child. The pair are also parents to a daughter, James, who was born in December 2014. Check out the video below for more details on the couple’s new bundle of joy!
While the Kardashian family has been fodder for James Corden's Late Late Show monologue in the past, it's clear he doesn't think there's anything funny about Kim's frightening run-in with armed robbers.
The late night talk show host took to Twitter on Sunday to defend the 35-year-old reality star after news broke that she had been held up at gunpoint by two armed, masked men who entered her hotel room in Paris dressed as police officers.
"People making jokes about @KimKardashian tonight would do well to remember that she's a mother, a daughter, a wife, a friend," Corden, 38, wrote. "Be nice or shut up."
Kim's friend Chrissy Teigen also spoke out against those mocking the reality star, writing, "Fame is interesting. Celebs are supposed to love you guys while also knowing you'd make a meme of our dead bodies to get retweets."
Kim's spokesperson told ET on Sunday that the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star was "badly shaken but physically unharmed" following the incident.
Kim is currently in the City of Light for Paris Fashion Week, where she's been documenting her trip with her sisters, Kendall Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian, on social media. It's unclear if her sisters or her members of her private security team were present when the robbery occurred.
Just before news of the robbery broke, Kim's husband, Kanye West, abruptly ended his performance at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York, mid-song, telling the audience that there had been a "family emergency" and that he had to stop the show.
Kim Kardashian was held at gunpoint inside her hotel room in Paris, France.
According to a rep for the 35-year-old reality star, two armed, masked men entered her hotel room dressed as police officers. "She is badly shaken but physically 
unharmed," Kardashian’s spokesperson told ET.
Kardashian has recently been documenting her trip to Paris Fashion Week with her sisters, Kendall Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian, on Snapchat. It's unclear if her sisters or members of her private security team were present when the robbery occurred.
The news broke minutes after Kardashian's husband, Kanye West, abruptly ended his performance at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York, mid-song, telling the audience that there had been a "family emergency" and that he had to stop the show.
ET has reached out to West and Kardashian's reps for comment and will continue to cover this story as it develops.
Blac Chyna celebrated her baby shower on Sunday, documenting her ride to the soiree on Snapchat, as any Kardashian worth their salt would.
The Rob and Chyna star glowed in a gorgeous beaded dress and nude-toned makeup, which she showed off for friends before hopping into a party bus.

While Kourtney and Kim Kardashian were unable to attend, as they are currently in France for Paris Fashion Week, Kim sent her well-wishes to Chyna from afar.  
Scott Disick supported his extended family in person, posing with Rob for some fun snaps at the shower's photo booth and posting them to Instagram. 
Another guest along for the ride was King Cairo, Chyna's 3-year-old son with ex-fiancé (and Kylie Jenner's current beau) Tyga. The wee toddler shows up in one of Chyna's Snapchats looking excited and happy.
Although Chyna's Snapchat game is very reminiscent of Kim and Kylie's these days, that's not the only page she has taken from the Kardashian book of public relations. On Saturday, the 28-year-old showed up to pal Amber Rose's Slutwalk in Los Angeles channeling the queen Kardashian in a major way, in a baby bump-hugging beige body-con dress, topped with a blush pink duster jacket.
Hm. Where have we seen that look before?
In true Kardashian fashion, there was a bunch of drama surrounding the baby shower last week. Need to catch up on that? Watch below.
Dancing With the Stars pro Derek Hough is speaking out in defense of his sister, DWTS judge Julianne Hough, in regards to Amber Rose's recent comments that she felt Julianne had "body shamed" her during a recent episode of the hit dance competition series.
"I think we all know Julianne and she is a huge advocate for being kind," Derek told ET's Carly Steel at the Motion Picture Television Fund's "Night Under the Stars" event in Los Angeles on Saturday.
While the 31-year-old dancer said he felt his sister was "100 percent" misunderstood, he said he appreciated why Rose felt the way she did about the comments.
"You get your feelings hurt when you're on the show," Derek explained. "I understand she felt bummed out."
"But to say [Julianne] was [body shaming] is definitely just false," he added. "Julianne's the complete opposite of that, and she stands for everything that's [the opposite of] body shaming."
Rose said that she felt she had been body shamed by the 28-year-old DWTS judge during her Loveline podcast this week, when Hough remarked that she felt "uncomfortable" about a dance move during Rose's somewhat risqué routine with partner Maks Chmerkovskiy on Monday’s show.
"All the beautiful professional dancers that are on Dancing With the Stars, I mean, they dress very sexy and they do the splits and they grind up on these guys and they look absolutely stunning and get a standing ovation," Rose shared. "And me, and my body, my hips, my a**, my breasts made her uncomfortable."
Julianne responded to Rose's remarks in a statement to ET on Friday, explaining that her comments were "solely reacting to the quality of the dance I was judging"
"I have been a strong proponent of female empowerment and an anti-bullying advocate for years and I take that very seriously," she said. "Any kind of body shaming is the furthest thing from who I am and what I stand for."
Derek admitted that he doesn’t know if his sister and Rose have had a chance to hash out their differences yet, but said, "Knowing [Julianne], as soon as she's in town, she'll go right up to Amber and she'll be like, 'Listen, I hope you know what I mean. Let's hug it out.'"
ET spoke with Rose during her second annual Slutwalk event on Saturday, however she declined to comment when asked about her body shaming claims.
For more on the heightened tensions between the talk show host and the DWTS judge, check out the video below.
Kanye West stopped his live performance at the Meadows Festival in Queens, New York on Sunday, due to a "family emergency."
The 39-year-old rapper stopped midway through a performance of his song "Heartless," telling the audience, "I'm sorry, there's a family emergency. I have to stop the show."
The moment was caught by many members of the audience who shared the surprising video to social media. Attendees could be heard expression their confusion and anger over the abrupt conclusion of the show.
West's wife, Kim Kardashian, as well as her sisters Kendall Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian, are currently in Paris, France, where they've been sharing Snapchats from Paris Fashion Week.
Nearly an hour before West ended his show, Kim posted a Snapchat sharing well wishes for her brother, Rob Kardashian, and his fiancée, Blac Chyna, during their baby shower.
West took the stage at the Meadows Festival, where he was headlining, at 8:45 p.m. ET and was set to perform until 10, however he ended his set at around 9:40.
According to some audience members tweeting from the scene, festival crew members said West left the venue just minutes after ending his performance.
ET has reached out to West’s reps for comment and will continue to cover this story as it develops.
Amber Rose took to the streets of Los Angeles on Saturday to bring her message of body positivity, gender equality and sexual enlightenment to the masses -- and the outspoken model and TV personality got tons of love and support from her friends and fans.
The Dancing With the Stars contestant was joined by thousands of men and women who came out to the second annual Amber Rose Slutwalk at Pershing Square, carrying posters and signs advocating for a number of different causes.
Rose spoke with ET about the high-profile event, and stressed the important of positive body image and acceptance.
"This is the no judgment zone. We're out here, we're embracing everyone, this is very positive and very loving," Rose said of the Slutwalk. "It's important to feel self-confident, because that's what gets you through the day and through your life."
As for the show of support from her DWTS co-stars and thousands of fans and followers who participated in the groundbreaking event, the 32-year-old model and activist said she felt "overwhelmed with happiness."
"I like, almost cried for a second. I probably will cry throughout the day," she added. "It's beautiful, it really is, and I'm happy that I have all this support."
One the many stars who came out in support was Rose's long-time friend, Blac Chyna, who stood on stage with Rose and talked about the issues at the forefront of the event.
Former Playboy model and reality star Kendra Wilkinson also turned up for the event, proudly showing off her curves in a semi-sheer, low-cut pink top and cut-off short shorts.
The 31-year-old model spoke with ET at the event, where she had nothing but praise for Rose, and what she's been able to accomplish with the massive event.
"Amber Rose is the one celebrity I choose to follow, because I stand with her! She has the balls to break the walls," Wilkinson shared. "She's doing the dirty work and look at this! It's turned into a beautiful thing."
Rose also got a lot of support from some of her DTWS co-stars, including Maks Chmerkovskiy and his fiancée, Peta Murgatroyd, who are currently expecting their first child.
She also snapped a selfie with her fellow contestant, Little Women: LA star Terra Jole.
The second annual Slutwalk comes just days after Rose said on her Loveline podcast that she felt "body shamed" by comments made by DWTS judge Julianne Hough during a recent episode of the dancing competition series. Check out the video below to hear more.
Is it time to add "real estate mogul" to Kylie Jenner’s resume? Because most 19-year-olds still live at home, but Jenner now owns four houses of her own.
According to real estate website Trulia, which reported the purchase on Saturday, the reality television star's latest buy is a $12 million dollar, 13,200-square foot Cape Cod-style mansion in Hidden Hills, California. The house features eight bedrooms, 11 bathrooms, a gourmet kitchen, home theater, game room and pool.
That sounds like plenty of room for the extended Kardashian-Jenner family to stay, if they don't all fit in one of her other three houses. Maybe this is the Keeping Up With The Kardashians version of a solution to keep feuding factions of the family -- ahem, Rob and Chyna -- separate during family get-togethers.
Kylie first entered the real estate game last year, snapping up a 4,851-square foot "starter home" in the same Calabasas development that sisters Khloe and Kourtney also own homes in, for $2.7 million.
The lip kit creator followed that up with two homes in Hidden Hills, a $6 million mansion and the $4.5 million mansion next door. 
Check out Kylie's last home purchase in the video below.
Every year, Arnold Schwarzenegger heads to Munich, Germany, to celebrate Oktoberfest, and this year he brought his son, Joseph Baena, along for the fun.
The 69-year-old action star shared a beaming father-son photo from the world-famous beer festival, where they were celebrating Baena's 19th birthday. Both generations dressed up in traditional Bavarian garb and raised some huge mugs of frothy ale for the sweet snapshot.
"Happy birthday, Joseph!" the former California governor captioned the pic on Sunday. "Great student, great athlete. I'm proud of you and I love you!"
Schwarzenegger has been in Munich for a number of days, as part of his annual pilgrimage to the wildly popular volksfest. Last week, the Terminator star even got the chance to conduct the Oktoberfest orchestra at the Theresienwiese grounds, where the traditional festival has been held since 1810.
Baena isn't the only person near and dear to Schwarzenegger's heart who accompanied him to the grand festival. The actor's girlfriend, Heather Milligan, also flew out to share some brews.
Schwarzenegger has been dating Milligan, his physical therapist, since separating from his ex, Maria Shriver. Schwarzenegger and Shriver ended their relationship in 2011 after news broke that he had fathered Joseph 14 years earlier with the family's housekeeper, Mildred Baena.
Schwarzenegger has four other children from his marriage with Shriver, 26-year-old Katharine, 25-year-old Christina, 23-year-old Patrick, and 19-year-old Christopher.
Christopher just celebrated his birthday last week, and Schwarzenegger commemorated the occasion with a sweet throwback pic. The star captioned the cute snapshot, "Happy birthday Christopher! I love you and I'm so proud of you. I know this year will be your best yet."
Recently, Baena showed just how much he’s like his father by recreating one of his dad's iconic scenes from Terminator 2, and it couldn't have been cooler. Check out the video below for a look at the epic tribute video.
Lindsay Lohan lost part of her finger in a boating accident on Sunday.
While vacationing in Turkey, the Freaky Friday star was helping anchor a boat when the accident occurred. TMZ reports the anchor pulled Lindsay down into the water and the tip of her ring finger was sliced off as she struggled to untangle herself.  
Luckily, the missing part of her finger was found and Lindsay's digit was made whole again by doctors.
Although the experience sounds terrifying, Snapchats of LiLo's bandaged hand after the ordeal show her dealing with the situation in good spirits.
“This is the result of me trying to help anchor the boat by myself," the 30-year-old actress laughed in a Snapchat video. "My poor finger."
Wishing you a speedy recovery, Lindsay!
Get up to speed on the newly single actress' latest news in the video below.
Even Simon Cowell isn't immune to a wardrobe malfunction.
No, it wasn't that one of his famous tight white T-shirts finally ripped. During Saturday night's episode of The X Factor UK, Cowell was seen sitting on a couch alongside Spice Girls Mel B and Emma Bunton, and eagle-eyed viewers were fairly convinced that he had left his pants unzipped, revealing his privates to the world.
But don't worry -- it was just Cowell's laid-back position on the couch that caused his toe to be mistaken for, well, a different body part. Naturally, the gaffe quickly became immortalized on Twitter.
Makes you reconsider the power of sitting cross-legged, no?
Sadly, the 55-year-old TV judge has yet to comment on the situation. That may be because he and wife Lauren Silverman were out having a lovely evening at the Shooting Star Chase Ball in London, England, while the episode aired.
EXCLUSIVE: Simon Cowell Weighs In on Zayn Malik's One Direction-Inspired TV Show
The British entrepreneur looked quite dapper in a navy suit at the event, while Silverman stunned in a gorgeous purple gown. Thankfully, no wardrobe malfunctions occurred for either one of them in real-life.
Cowell also judges America's Got Talent, and earlier this month, he compared Grace VanderWaal's win on the show to Kelly Clarkson's victory during the first season of American Idol. Hear more in the video below.
George Clooney dished to ET's Carly Steel about his recent anniversary with wife Amal and how proud he is of the ISIS-battling lawyer while on the red carpet at the Motion Picture Television Fund's 'Night Under the Stars' benefit in Los Angeles on Saturday night.
The Oscar winner hosted, who was hosting the evening's festivities, reacted to reaching the two-year mark with his trademark deprecating humor. "And they said it wouldn't last," George joked of his and Amal's marriage, adding, "Ah, we proved them wrong!"
The glamorous couple had what sounds like a quiet night to celebrate the occasion. "We mostly drank," he kidded, adding more seriously, "I made dinner and we had a very romantic second anniversary. Very civilized."
The 55-year-old actor was vocal about his wife's job as a human rights lawyer. Amal is currently making the case to world leaders to take ISIS to court for genocide, and the Ocean's 11 star couldn't help but boast about her work. 
"Of course I'm proud of her. Yeah, it comes with risk," he said, mentioning Amal's representation of a Yazidi woman, Nadia, who was sold as a slave to the terrorist organization. "You spend an afternoon with that young woman [Nadia], there's no way you couldn't stand up for her. She's so brave. She's the one who's the bravest because she's in the most dangerous [situation]. I think Amal's decision to [represent her] was, of course, heroic."
Meanwhile, backstage, an eyewitness said George and his wife were cute and affectionate together while drinking Casamigos tequila, the brand that the actor co-founded with Rande Gerber.
On the topic of Clooney's good friend Brad Pitt, however, the actor kept mum. "I don't know," he said when asked how Pitt is doing after his split from Angelina Jolie. "I haven't talked to him."
The MPTF's fundraiser is an annual event for the foundation, which provides elder care and financial assistance for those in the entertainment industry. Clooney, who sits on the MPTF Board, also spoke about his reasons for supporting the event. 


Last month, Amal opened up on camera about her dangerous line of work. See what she had to say about taking ISIS to court in the video below. 
Elmo has one adorable new BFF!
En route to the Hershey, Pennsylvania, stop of her headlining The Storyteller Tour, Carrie Underwood pulled an awesome mom move: bringing son Isaiah to Sesame Place!
The 19-month-old clearly had a good time at the Langhorne, Pennsylvania, theme park, meeting Elmo and his buddies, including Big Bird and Cookie Monster.
"Since we were in the area...we got the chance to make Isaiah's day!" the "Church Bells" singer captioned a photo of her little guy in front of the Sesame Street cast members. "Thanks, #sesameplace for the fun! We all had a blast!"
Even though all of the Sesame Street characters are pretty awesome, Isaiah holds a special place in his heart for Elmo, which may have grown even bigger after the red critter embraced the toddler in a huge hug.
The fun didn't end at the park either! After the visit, Underwood, 33, shared the cutest snap of her baby boy lying under Cookie Monster, Elmo, and Big Bird stuffed animals.
"I call this photo: Sesame OD #sesameplace," she joked.
Underwood may be busy on the road but she's still a hands-on mom known to show off funny moments in her son's life.
In August, she shared the cutest Instagram photo of Isaiah tooling around with no pants on yet rocking a snazzy fedora on his head.
"Some mornings, pants are optional...even when the fedora is not. Just kidding, we had a blowout. #KeepingItReal #momlife," she captioned the pic of her son wearing, what else, a Sesame Street diaper.
Earlier this year, Underwood told ET that Isaiah has been adjusting well to life on the road. 
"He's rolling with it. It's a learning experience for all of us," she shared at the Academy of Country Music Awards in April. "We're making up the rules and figuring things out as we go along, [but] it's good."
Hear more in the video below.
Pants, shmants!
Kim Kardashian continues to up the fashion ante during Paris Fashion Week, turning up to the Balenciaga show on Sunday in nothing but a trench coat -- worn off the shoulder to reveal plenty of cleavage -- and thigh-high boots. That's right -- there were no pants in sight!

She also wore minimal makeup, a rarity for the mother of two. Kardashian posted a Snapchat after the high fashion event, telling fans that she went makeup-free because "it kind of feels good, just to not spend all that time." 
The 35-year-old reality star also ditched pants on Saturday night, rocking a risqué outfit for a birthday dinner for makeup artist pal, Mario Dedivanovic. Her black top and sheer pants provided only the merest of cover. 
MORE: Kim Kardashian Shares Touching Home Movies of Her Dad on 13th Anniversary of His Death
Kardashian has been busy in Paris, wearing almost as many runway-ready looks as the models on the actual runways. Check out the gold-and-grills outfits she and sister Kourtney rocked to the Balmain after-party in the video below.
Is Kylie Jenner ready for babies with Tyga?
The 19-year-old reality star gushed over her boyfriend, Tyga, future children, adorable dogs, and more during a late night Snapchat Q&A Saturday night.
EXCLUSIVE: Kylie Jenner Dishes on Having More Fun as a Blonde and Being 'Inspired' By Yeezy Season 4
Jenner kicked off the questions by talking about her pups.
"Someone asked when did you get your first dog Norman," Jenner said, responding to a fan question using the dog filter, which she kept up for most of the chat. "He was a Christmas gift from Tyga. I've always loved Greyhounds."
The impromptu session with Jenner's fans was apparently prompted by her friends ditching their evening plans. Tyga came to her rescue with some hilarious memes that made their way into the Q&A, revealing his sense of humor.
"I'm dying!" Jenner giggled. "That's why I love Tyga -- he always makes me feel better. He just sent me the funniest seems because my friends cancelled on me."
"He's so funny," Jenner continued. "I'm going to post the meme he just sent me right now."
The funny meme ended up being of a man sitting alone in a boat with a caption reading, "When the whole squad cancels but you're [sic] strong, independent young person who don’t need no friends."
The topic of babies also came up, with Jenner revealing that she does want to be a mom -- some day.
"I'm getting a lot of questions about kids," she said. "How many kids do I want, do I want kids? I do want kids -- but not now."
Over the course of the very long Q&A, the Kylie Lip Kid creator also touched upon her new hair color, explaining that it had actually been in the works for a while, which is why she hadn't dyed her hair in a year.
Not only that, but she spoke about her new Kylie Cosmetics eyeshadow palettes and dealing with  fake stories about herself, noting that though she's "vocal" when it in her private life, she doesn’t feel the need to respond to every false story about herself.
"It's just like not really worth my time because you're not gonna please everybody," she explained. "But, yeah, I kind of just like talk it out to my friends. They know what's true."
She mused on the situation again a little later, sharing some life advice with her fans. "To continue the question before, you will kill yourself trying to please everybody," she said. "It will never happen. And once you accept that, you're chilling."
Despite all that, Jenner admitted that she doesn't mind seeing memes of herself and her family on the internet. "Honestly, I think they're kind of funny," Jenner admitted. "I actually laugh!"
MORE: Kylie Jenner and Tyga Heat Up in New Alexander Wang Campaign Video
That's a wrap! The Justice League officially wrapped in London, England, and Jason Momoa marked the occasion in his own special way: sexy shirtless photos.
The 37-year-old actor, who plays Aquaman in the upcoming superhero flick, wasn't able to make the film's wrap party, so he sent a special shoutout to the cast and crew on Saturday.
EXCLUSIVE: Jason Momoa on Landing His 'Dream Job' and That 'Batman v Superman' Backlash
"There's too many people to thank for all their hard work [on] JL [Justice League]," Momoa captioned a black-and-white snap of himself flashing his abs. "Tonight is our wrap party. I am so thankful for my cast and crew. I love you. I have never in my life missed a wrap party But as you all know I'm a huge fan of the food and merriment!!!!"
Momoa added that he's getting ready for another project (very likely the standalone Aquaman flick), writing, "Unfortunately I prepare for the north. For those that will be there. I won’t let you down Shaka aaalllooohhhaaa see u Monday xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx aquaman."
MORE: The 'LEGO Batman Movie' Trailer Introduces New Justice League, Proves Everything Is Still Awesome!
Earlier in the day, Momoa shared a different shirtless workout pic to thank his trainer, Mike Twight.
"Working my a** of with @wfmft crushing it on Saturday," he wrote. "[You're] an amazing artist teacher and dear friend. It's been along f**king road I can see the end Thanks for pushing me ALOHA A C. Mahalo @fatherdamian for putting humpty back together again 😜😜😜😜😜."
EXCLUSIVE: JK Simmons Talks 'Justice League' and Those Buff Gym Pics
Justice League won't hit theaters until Nov. 17, 2017, the countdown officially began after the first trailer debuted in July.
Directed by Zach Snyder, Justice League stars Ben Affleck and Henry Cavill, who will reprise their roles as Batman and Superman, respectively. The rest of the superhero squad includes Gal Gadot as Wonder Woman, Ezra Miller as The Flash, and Ray Fisher as Cyborg.
Watch the video below to find out how Mamoa kept his role as Aquaman a secret.
What better way to see Paris than through a supermodel's eyes?
Kim Kardashian did just that on Saturday, shopping with none other than her pal, Naomi Campbell.

"My hair inspo! #Naomi," Kim captioned a pic of the two showing off their long tresses on Snapchat.
"#letsswingthathair@kimkardashian @hermes 💋@tokyostylez," Naomi, 46, wrote alongside a snap of herself and the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star mid-hair flip.
And, of course, Kim had to share the whole video on Snapchat.
The 35-year-old reality star traded in her lacy lingerie and barely-there Balmain looks for the duo's shopping spree, hitting the shops in a velour tracksuit and lace-up boots for the trip.
Later in the evening, Kim was all dressed up once again for a birthday dinner for her close friend, makeup artist Mario Dedivanovic. Her sisters, Kendall Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian, and mom Kris Jenner were also in attendance.
Despite all that fun, she still had a post-meal case of FOMO. After getting a late night spray tan (because, why not?), the Selfish author sadly watched as Kendall and two of their friends left her behind.
Sometimes beauty means sacrifice!
It's been all about the fashion for Kim this week. Check out the glittering gold ensembles she and Kourtney wore to Balmain's aftershow party:
The royals have officially said goodbye to Canada.
Prince William and Kate Middleton and their children, 3-year-old Prince George and 17-month-old Princess Charlotte, adorably waved goodbye as they boarded a Canadian Air Force Plane back to London, England, on Saturday.
There was still much to be done for William and Kate, both 34, before they departed, however.
The couple began their day at the Cridge Centre for the Family in Victoria, British Columbia, which provides support for women and families suffering from domestic violence or economic crises.
Next, William and Kate visited a café, where they met with families helped by the Kelty Mental Health Resource Centre and even received tiny hockey jerseys for George and Charlotte. The Duchess of Cambridge dressed in a white blazer, black skinny jeans from Zara, and adorable plaid shoes from J. Crew for the occasion. 
Last on the schedule was a quick trip around Victoria Harbor on a ship helmed by none other than Kate herself.
The family spent a busy eight days in Canada -- relive their very sweet grand entrance in the video below.
This 12-year-old singer is having the best time ever!
It's no secret that we can't get enough of this year's America's Got Talent winner, Grace VanderWall. She's received surprise flowers from Taylor Swift and even got her very own treehouse from the makers of Treehouse Masters,  and she continued to be on a winning streak since winning season 11 of AGT.
And, now she can cross one more thing off her bucket list.
In an adorable video released this week, VanderWall is seen having a phone conversation with a friend on how Jason Mraz tweeted her a message after the AGT finale. but they've never spoken in real life.
"I love him so much," she says. "He really inspires my writing sound. I think we have really similar styles. He's one of my favorite artists."
"So would it be cool if you got to meet him?" her friend says, asking what she would do if Mraz, 39, called her.
"That would be so exciting," VanderWaal replied. "I would love to meet him."
Moments later, another one of Grace's dreams came true.
"Hey Grace, this is Jason," the "I Won't Give Up" singer said over the phone.
"…Mraz? Oh my GOD!" Grace replied, see her full reaction in the video below.
"I wanted to thank you so much for all the kind words," Mraz continued. "I just think what you're doing is fantastic. I think there's something deep inside of you that you're allowing to come through and you're doing it well."
For more on VanderWaal and her endless surprises, watch the video below.
Two years after his death, Robin Williams' widow is still fighting for answers.
Since the actor's suicide on Aug. 11, 2014, his wife, Susan Scheider Williams, has been working to understand and spread awareness of the brain disease Williams didn't know he had -- Lewy Body Disease (LBD) -- recently writing an essay on her husband's struggles for the medical journal Neurology.
In her piece, titled "The Terrorist Inside My Husband's Brain," Susan describes her husband's final months, which she says were filled with paranoia, anxiety, stress and depression.
"This is a personal story, sadly tragic and heartbreaking, but by sharing this information with you I know that you can help make a difference in the lives of others," she writes, addressing the journal's readers of neurologists, doctors and scientists. "As you may know, my husband Robin Williams had the little-known but deadly Lewy body disease (LBD). He died from suicide in 2014 at the end of an intense, confusing, and relatively swift persecution at the hand of this disease's symptoms and pathology."
Susan then details Williams' final months, which were filled by a variety of symptoms that didn't seem to fit with any one disease. "Constipation, urinary difficulty, heartburn, sleeplessness and insomnia, and a poor sense of smell -- and lots of stress," she says of his symptoms in the fall of 2013. "By wintertime, problems with paranoia, delusions and looping, insomnia, memory, and high cortisol levels -- just to name a few -- were settling in hard. Psychotherapy and other medical help was becoming a constant in trying to manage and solve these seemingly disparate conditions."
The next spring, while filming Night at the Museum 3, she says Williams suffered from a panic attack, and had trouble remembering "even one line for his scenes" -- something that had never happened in his career.  "This loss of memory and inability to control his anxiety was devastating to him," she adds. 
Williams was diagnosed with Parkinson's Disease that May, and while she says that her "heart swelled with hope," she "knew Robin was not buying it."
"When we were in the neurologist's office learning exactly what this meant, Robin had a chance to ask some burning questions. He asked, 'Do I have Alzheimer's? Dementia? Am I schizophrenic?' The answers were the best we could have gotten: No, no, and no. There were no indications of these other diseases," she recalls. "It is apparent to me now that he was most likely keeping the depth of his symptoms to himself."
The couple continued to work through Williams' wide variety of symptoms, going through neurocognitive testing, physical therapy, therapy, mediation, and even self-hypnosis to try to manage his disease.
During his final month, however, Susan says she could tell her husband "was growing weary."
"The parkinsonian mask was ever present and his voice was weakened. His left hand tremor was continuous now and he had a slow, shuffling gait. He hated that he could not find the words he wanted in conversations. He would thrash at night and still had terrible insomnia," she writes. "At times, he would find himself stuck in a frozen stance, unable to move, and frustrated when he came out of it. He was beginning to have trouble with visual and spatial abilities in the way of judging distance and depth. His loss of basic reasoning just added to his growing confusion."
She then recounts a final perfect day with the actor in which she thought he might be getting better.
"We did all the things we love on Saturday day and into the evening, it was perfect -- like one long date. By the end of Sunday, I was feeling that he was getting better," she writes. "When we retired for sleep, in our customary way, my husband said to me, 'Goodnight, my love,' and waited for my familiar reply: 'Goodnight, my love.'"
"His words still echo through my heart today," she continues. "Monday, August 11, Robin was gone."
She concludes her essay with a call to action to the doctors and scientists she addressed in the beginning of her piece, thanking them "for what you have done, and what you are about to do."
"Hopefully from this sharing of our experience you will be inspired to turn Robin's suffering into something meaningful through your work and wisdom," she shares.  "It is my belief that when healing comes out of Robin's experience, he will not have battled and died in vain."
Sign us up for The Bachelor!
In perhaps the most epic group date in the ABC show’s history, Bachelor Nick Viall escorted seven ladies to a Backstreet Boys concert at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles on Friday.
EXCLUSIVE: AJ McLean Says Backstreet Boys’ Las Vegas Residency Will Be Their ‘Biggest Show in 24 Years’
Viall was joined on stage by his bachelorettes, who shimmied behind him as back-up dancers.
“Nick looked like he was having a blast,” a witness tells ET. “He kept glancing over to AJ for guidance, but when it came to the chorus he killed it!”
EXCLUSIVE: Why Nick Viall Is The Bachelor, Not Luke Pell
The GRAMMY-nominated group slowed things down with an acapella version of “I Want It That Way,” while Viall and one lucky lady took center stage for a slow dance.
Singing along, Viall and the brunette cozied up for an intimate dance, which ended in a steamy make-out session.
“The other contestants were in the background dancing along, but some appeared to be bummed it wasn't them dancing with Nick," the witness added.
Before Viall left the stage, the boy band wished him good luck in finding love.
“That was smooth as butter!” McLean exclaimed, after the couple locked lips.
The boy band also hyped up the crowd by bringing former Bachelor contestants, Ashley Iaconetti and Becca Tilley, up to the stage and serenading them with fan favorite, “Get Another Boyfriend,” from their 1999 album Millennium.
Last month, the Backstreet Boys announced their Larger Than Life residency at Planet Hollywood in Las Vegas. For more on their highly anticipated show, see the video below.
Months after shaving her head, Shannen Doherty's hair appears to be growing back.
The 45-year-old actress took to Instagram on Saturday to share a new photo of herself and her husband, Kurt Iswarienko, in honor of the #loveyourspousechallenge, first suggested to her by her good friend, Sarah Michelle Gellar.
"It's the 6th day of the #loveyourspousechallenge. This is us now," Doherty began her post. "Life has handed us an interesting card with cancer and although we would both prefer to not be faced with such a terrible disease, we must also search for the good."
The former Beverly Hills 90210 star went on to express how grateful she is for the things that she does have.
"Am I blessed? Yes. Blessed for my friends that I have. Blessed that I have a fantastic mom and blessed that this man is in my life," she said. "Cancer gives a clarity that is unique. I've seen friends run, I've seen strangers step up, I've seen the unwavering still unwaver and I've seen @kurtiswarienko there for it all."
"That's friendship," she concluded. "That's love."
ET caught up with Doherty at Stand Up To Cancer's telecast just last month, where she confessed that going through cancer has made her and her husband even closer.
"Cancer has in a strange way done some amazing things for me. It's allowed me to be more me, like much more in touch with who I am, and much more vulnerable and the person that I always was, but I think it got hidden behind a lot of other stuff," she explained. 
"My marriage was always fantastic," she added, "but it's even better now."
And according to her oncologist, Dr. Piro, Doherty is just about finished with her chemotherapy.
"Shannen is doing amazing," he reported. "We have just a few more weeks of treatment, and then we'll be nearly finished with the chemotherapy."
See more on Doherty's cancer battle in the video below.
Teen Mom 2 star Chelsea Houska is officially married!
The 25-year-old reality star married fiancé, Cole DeBoer, in a romantic ceremony in South Dakota on Saturday.
"Mr & Mrs DeBoer ❤️," Houska adorably announced alongside a polaroid snap of herself, DeBoer, and her daughter Aubree.
One day before tying the knot, the then-bride-to-be shared a snapshot with her older sister, who flew in from Florida for the wedding. The post followed the bride-to-be’s sweet message to DeBoer thanking him for buying her “favorite flowers.”
“I don't know what I did to deserve this man, but I am thankful every single day,” Houska wrote along side a pic of the floral arrangements. “@coledeboer beyond proud to be able to call you my husband soon!”
The couple got engaged last November after dating for nearly a year. "I am unbelievably excited, and it feels good to finally have my family that I have always wanted," Houska told MTV News after DeBoer popped the question.
Besides exchanging vows, the newlyweds are awaiting the arrival of a new edition to the family. Houska is currently five months pregnant, and she’s been chronicling her journey on Instagram.

The bundle of joy will be the second child for Houska, who has a 7-year-old daughter, Aubree, from a previous relationship.
From the looks of it, Aubree and her new stepdad are already getting along. DoBoer shared several photos of Aubree on Instagram, including a precious pic from her birthday party last week.
"Had a 'super' fabulous time with this princess at her 'super party'!!," he captioned a photo of himself and Aubree wearing superhero capes.
MORE: 'Teen Mom 2' Star Chelsea Houska and Boyfriend Cole DeBoer Are Engaged!
Hot on the heels of their red carpet debut, Kaley Cuoco and her boyfriend, Karl Cook, competed in the Longines Masters of Los Angeles equestrian event on Friday in Long Beach, California.
The cute couple participated in separate competitions, with Cuoco going under the name, Kay Christine.
The Masters series is considered one of the most prestigious equestrian competitions around the world and Thursday’s opening night gala was hosted by Australian rapper Iggy Azalea, who earlier this year declared that her 2016 resolution was to compete in the three-day equestrian event.
Cuoco and Cook, 25, made their red carpet debut at the event’s gala. The 30-year-old actress looked radiant and smitten in a colourful Mary Katrantzou maxi dress.
The Big Bang Theory star recently opened up to CBS This Morning about how the pair’s shared equestrian passions helped strengthen their love. “The horse connection is special,” she gushed.
See more on the couple below.
Cara Delevingne has eyes on the back of her head -- literally!
The 24-year-old model has gotten inked once again, but this one just might be her most intricate tattoo yet.
Delevigngne recently hit up New York City based celebrity tattoo artist Bang Bang, famous for his tiny tattoos, for a one of kind creation that is equal parts creepy and totally awesome.
Just what did the Suicide Squad star get? Well, Delevingne will always be watching with a new set of eyes on the back of her neck!
The actress clearly doesn't mind going bold with her body art. She recently let Margot Robbie give her a permanent memento of their time on Suicide Squad together, with tiny tattoos on her toes.
"Picture what a 4-year-old would draw and stick it on your fridge. That's kind of one of my tattoos," Robbie told ET in August. "Like little stick figures."
See more in the video below.
Sometimes Britney Spears just needs to "shake it off."
The 34-year-old singer made an appearance on The Jonathan Ross Show this weekend, where she was challenged to sing a song on helium -- and it turns out she’s got some love for Taylor Swift.
"So one of us, which means you, has to suck down some helium and sing," Ross instructed.
"Really?" Spears asked as she's handed a balloon.
"So what do you want to sing? You can sing a popular song, one of your own, something we all know," Ross said as Spears takes a big breath of helium.
Watch the video below to see her little "Shake It Off" rendition.
During her appearance, Spears also opened up about her "tricky" dating life.
"It's a little tricky. I have a friend at home, and he randomly sets me up with people every now and then on dates, and it's just awkward," she confessed. "I will say that there have been two dates that are kind of cool, but other than that, it's just too much."
"I went with this one guy, and he just looked like a lizard, like I was so scared. He looks just like a lizard, and I had to go. It was really bad," the singer recalled, admitting that she left the date then and there.
Earlier this week, the singer recently revealed what she thought of Ariana Grande's impression of her.
"That's funny. That’s really funny, wow," she reacted during an interview on London's KISS FM UK. "I've heard better."
Judge Grande's impression for yourself in the video below.
Jamie Chung is known for her chic style and classic wardrobe – but this time it's her hair that’s got our attention!
The 33-year-old actress debuted new golden blonde locks on Thursday, and we can't get enough.

Chung also gave us a glimpse of her new ’do during an event in NYC this earlier this week.
"Huge congrats to this amazing woman!!!! @ctilburtymakeup so happy I finally got to meet you!!!" she captioned the post, while attending Charlotte Tilbury's makeup masterclass at Bloomingdale's in NYC. 
Chung will return to the new season of Once Upon A Time. For more on the hit ABC show, watch the video below. 
Fifth Harmony singer Ally Brooke Hernandez is speaking out to ET about her second fan attack while on tour in Mexico.
The 23-year-old star was performing at the Auditorio Banamex in Monterrey, Mexico on Thursday when a male fan stormed the stage and attempted to wrap his arms around her. While a security guard immediately intervened, Hernandez had to pull herself free before falling to the ground.
EXCLUSIVE: Fifth Harmony Announces New ‘7/27’ Tour
"I am thankful that I or anyone else was not injured, as these incidents could have gone awry,” Hernandez tells ET. “I love the fans and appreciate their excitement and love for us, however, these situations could easily escalate in the wrong direction for us and the fans.”
“I am fine though,” the “Worth It” singer continued. “I love our fans and am excited to continue performing my heart out on our 7/27 Tour!"
On Wednesday, after arriving in Mexico, the pop star was also ambushed and almost dragged to the floor by a fan while walking through the airport.
She later pleaded on social media for fans to be gentle around the group.
“Please be careful and gentle so nobody get hurts,” she wrote. “That was scary.”
EXCLUSIVE: Fifth Harmony Teams With ‘DC Super Hero Girls’ for New Music Video
The group is currently in Guadalajara for the final stop of their Mexican tour, before heading to Europe.
ET broke news of the group’s 7/27 world trek in May – see more on the tour in the video below.
Babies love puppies and playtime!
Chrissy Teigen can't stop sharing pictures of baby Luna. The model shared a series of Snapchats posts on Friday of her daughter enjoying play time with the family's French bulldog, Pippa.
"Beat buddies (sic)," Teigen, 30, captioned a photo of Pippa and Luna playing in the living room.
"PJ day!" she captioned another post of Luna looking quite content in a cozy white onesie and gray bottoms.


See more about this adorable family in the video below.
WARNING: Spoilers ahead! Steer clear unless you’ve watched at least the first four episodes of Luke Cage.
Every superhero has an origin story.
In episode four of Luke Cage’s first season, fans get to see how cop-turned-convict Carl Lucas became the indestructible Power Man we know and love. ET’s Leanne Aguilera recently spoke with Luke Cage himself, Mike Colter, as well as the show’s executive producer, Cheo Hodari Coker, and Marvel Television EVP Jeph Loeb about how the epic flashback episode came together.
“It's important to us that you get to know who Luke Cage is,” Loeb explained. “For the comic book aficionado, he's a character that everybody knows, but to most people -- like the other [Marvel] characters on Netflix -- they're not as well known. So the idea was to take the first few episodes to introduce Luke, to introduce you to the world of Harlem, and to introduce you to the world of what Marvel is doing to this particular character in a very compelling way, so that you're caught up in it.”
For Loeb, the process of explaining who Luke Cage is began as early as the development process for Jessica Jones a few years back, when Colter proved to be pitch-perfect casting.
“The story that I love to tell is, when we were casting Jessica Jones, we wanted to make sure that, obviously, we had the right Luke and it was really important,” he explained. “He's not a leading character in Jessica Jones, he's in a half dozen episodes, but we wanted to make sure we got that right.”
“When Mike Colter walked in, six people went, ‘Is this the guy?’ He literally walked off the page and into real life,” Loeb continued. “[Comic book writer] Brian Michael Bendis -- who is one of the main reasons why Luke Cage enjoys his success today, and who's the creator of Jessica Jones -- when he saw Jessica Jones, said that Mike Colter was the best casting of a comic book character since Robert Downey Jr. became Tony Stark.”
Episode four of the hero for hire's new headlining series -- which shows an origin story as central and personal as any we’ve seen before in the Marvel ‘verse -- plays out almost entirely in flashbacks, as the uninjured strongman struggles to escape the rubble of his exploded bar in the present day. 

We meet Luke Cage before he adopts his superhero moniker, but that’s not the only telling sign. Unlike the impeccably manicured man to come, Seagate Prison inmate Carl Lucas sports an unruly afro and overgrown beard. Plus, when he punches the wall of his cell in a fit of frustrated grief, he bleeds.
After falling into the bad graces of Rackham, a corrupt prison guard (who employs Theo Rossi’s Shades as muscle), Carl is forced to fight in underground brawls that the guards bet on and stream live on the internet. He nearly loses himself, but finds a spark of hope in Reva Conners (Parisa Fitz-Henley, reprising her role from Jessica Jones), a prison therapist who leads group sessions.
Inspired by this hope, and showing glimpses of his heroic potential, Carl decides not only to stop fighting, but to bring down the ring, a move that doesn’t sit well with Rackham and other corrupt guards who profit off the bloodbath. He gets beaten within an inch of his life, and that’s when Reva pleads with the shady Dr. Burstein (Michael Kostroff) to save him, using a submersion tank and a chemical bath designed to speed healing.
“That felt like that episode would never end,” Colter admitted of the climactic scene, where Rackham storms in just as Carl is being submerged and attempts to stop Dr. Burstein’s healing experiment. “It was claustrophobic, putting the mask on, being underwater, the pressure of the water on your chest...It took a lot longer than I thought, and it was cold and it was not ideal at all. But we got the shot and they made it look really cool and I bought into it. In the end, I'm really pleased with the outcome, but I don’t ever want to do that again.”
As is often the case in superhero lore, the experiment goes wrong. Rackham pulls a lever that ups the acidity level of the healing bath, and a light in the dingy basement lab shorts out, causing an explosive flash before everything goes black.
Carl wakes up a changed man, and the first thing he does is punch his way through the concrete prison wall, surprising himself with his character’s signature catchphrase in the process: “Sweet Christmas.” He swims to freedom, still donning the metal headband that strapped him into the healing chamber that, when coupled with a mustard yellow shirt and blue pants swiped from the nearest laundry line, gives fans a look at Colter in Luke Cage’s ‘70s-era costume from the comic books.
“The thing that was important to Charles [Murray, Luke Cage EP and the writer of episode four] is that it reflects the character that we created for the screen, but at the same time also reflects the comic book,” Coker explained of the tribute. “That was what was so great about being able to incorporate the traditional classic Luke Cage look and then understand how we got to this.”
The style doesn’t last long, however, as the hero-to-be catches a glimpse of himself in a nearby car window, declaring, “You look like a damn fool,” before ditching the headband. But for the show’s creators and star, it was an important nod to the character’s origins.
“I was happy that I was able to give the fanboys what they wanted, but I did want to keep the look that we had established -- just for the sake of being credible and being taken seriously,” Colter explained. “It was really important.”
“For many people, that is the look of what he is, and for many people, you also have to understand that that was the look in the early '70s,” Loeb added. “While a lot of that [style] is coming back, and is part of it, this is a show that takes place in present day.”
And with the updated look, comes Carl Lucas’ updated moniker. He meets up with Reva on the outside world, and together, they look forward to the start of his new life, laying low from the law as he begins to understand his new abilities.
“My father’s a preacher,” Carl tells his new love, reciting a verse from the book of Luke. “He used to tell me that no one can cage a man if he truly wants to be free.”
“So, Luke Freeman?” Reva guesses.
“Nah,” he smirks, “that’s a bit on the nose.”
EXCLUSIVE: 'Luke Cage' Star Mike Colter Promises Satisfying Origin Story at Comic-Con 2016: 'You'll See Why'
There's nothing like a letter from the Boss to get you out of school.
Michael Fenerty, a fifth grader at Masterman School in Philadelphia, is Bruce Springsteen's ultimate fan!
Fenerty's father, Mike, who is also a huge fan of the 67-year-old singer and a Springsteen memorabilia collector, took his son to Springsteen's fan meet-and-greet at the Free Library of Philly on Thursday – but there was a small catch.
"It was the first day of school for the fifth grade at Masterman, and of course Bruce played his longest show," Michael’s father told Philly.com. "As a fan I loved it; as a parent I hated it. I wanted to kill him!"
Assuming the show would finish late, the father-son duo planned ahead and typed an absence note to get Michael out of school the next day. They brought the note with them and hoped for the best.
When they got into the event, Michael made sure to get Springsteen's signature.
"My son said, 'Bruce, would you sign my absence note?' [Springsteen] lit up. He was affectionate toward Michael as soon as he saw him. He said, 'I have to read it first, that's how I got in trouble with my first contract,'" Mike explained. "He said, 'I hope you don't get in trouble.' My son was very starstruck — it was a very cool experience." 
After the event, Mike confessed he couldn't give up such a cool piece of Springsteen memorabilia, so he made a photocopy of the letter to give to the school’s principal and kept the original. Smart move!
Hugh Hefner wants you to know he's very much alive and kicking!
The 90-year-old Playboy editor-in-chief took to Twitter on Friday to address recent rumors that his health was suffering, even sharing a snap of himself and his wife, Crystal, from their movie night that day.
"I wish the tabloids had informed me a little earlier in the week that I'm sick," Hefner joked in response to the rumors. "I might have cancelled my weekend plans."
The magazine mogul looked to be in great health in this movie night snap, posted just an hour before.
A source confirms to ET that despite reports that Hefner was on his death bed, he’s doing just fine.
"It's no secret that over the past few years he has suffered with back pain that has made it a bit more challenging for him to get around, but at 90 years of age, he is enjoying his life, and is still very involved in the day-to-day activities of editing the magazine," the source tells ET.
Hefner isn't the only one managing the day-to-day activities of Playboy. In July, his son Cooper returned as the company’s Chief Creative Officer.
See more in the video below.
Prince William and Kate Middleton took their children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, with them to Canada, marking the first family tour since welcoming their daughter in May 2015. The royal trip to Canada will take place from Sept. 24 through Oct. 1, 2016.
If Heidi Montag gets her wish, there might soon be a little Speidi running around!
The former Hills star opened up on life after reality TV in an interview with Faithwire on Friday, and while she shared that she’s ready to have a baby, her husband, Spencer Pratt, hasn’t exactly warmed up to the idea.
"I am writing a coffee table wife type of book, it's more like a fun project, something that I enjoy doing, and then I am getting ready to be a mom hopefully next year," Montag nonchalantly revealed. "So that is going to be my main priority and full-time job."
"I had to pray to get my husband to even agree to have a kid, and so this whole journey over the last few years, I have had to do," she confessed.
"It is not so easy. Not everyone can just have kids whenever they want," Montag explained, alluding to fertility issues or that she and Pratt just haven't agreed on starting a family. "There is a lot of hardship and prayers and certain things you have to put into that."
Montag also reflected on how her faith has helped her through the years since The Hills.
"I just got a little carried away with it," she said of the free plastic surgeries and other offers that came with becoming MTV's biggest reality villain.
"I started to get insecure about my look and comparing it to other people, so the two combined, just got a little too carried away," she explained. "The second round of surgeries, it was such a quick decision, and I just had so much going on, I didn't fully think it through."
However, the 30-year-old says she doesn't have any regrets.
"Growing up in front of people, you make mistakes," she conceded. "I definitely made my fair [share] of mistakes, but I am thankful for the experience, and it was a really great opportunity to grow and learn."
"I'm really thankful I had such a public fall and I spent all my money and everything, because it made me remember what I care about, and what is important to me, and to rebuild," Montag concluded. "[And] I definitely don't regret where I am now."
The "Body Language" singer expressed similar sentiments when ET caught up with her in May, in honor of The Hills’ 10-year anniversary.
See what Montag had to say in the video below.
Justin Theroux was "proud" of his wife, Jennifer Aniston, for using her voice to speak out against body-shaming.  The 45-year-old actor showed further support for Aniston in a new interview.
"I was very proud of what she wrote," Theroux told Men's Health magazine, in reference to an op-ed Aniston wrote in July, as a response to her frustrations with pregnancy rumors.
EXCLUSIVE: Justin Theroux Adorably Says He’s ‘Wearing Out His Credit Car for Jennifer Anniston’s B-Day
"At some point, it becomes bullying," Theroux noted. "It sucks when people aim cameras at your stomach on some bizarre womb watch. But more to the point, it’s equally damaging to the national conversation."
In the Huffington Post op-ed titled "For the Record," Aniston blasts the constant "scrutiny of body shaming that occurs daily under the guise of 'journalism,' the 'First Amendment' and the 'celebrity news.'"
"I have grown tired of being part of this narrative," the 47-year-old actress wrote. "Yes, I may become a mother some day, and since I’m laying it all out there, if I ever do, I will be the first to let you know. But I’m not in pursuit of motherhood because I feel incomplete in some way, as our celebrity news culture would lead us all to believe. I resent being made to feel 'less than' because my body is changing and/or I had a burger for lunch and was photographed from a weird angle and therefore deemed one of two things: 'pregnant' or 'fat.'"
MORE: Jennifer Aniston Enjoys Date Night With Husband Justin Theroux Amid Brangelina Split
Regardless of the pregnancy rumors, Aniston and Theroux continue to enjoy their first year of marriage. ET caught up with Theroux last week, and he happily revealed the secret to making their relationship work.
“We appreciate each other's sense of humor, we respect one another and we get along," Theroux told ET's Nischelle Turner while promoting this new film, The Girl on the Train. "I know it sounds simple but it's true!"
See the rest of Theroux's ET interview in the video below.
Fans won't be able to revisit the fictional town of Twin Peaks until 2017 but they can definitely start getting in the mood right now -- thanks to a new sense memory-heavy teaser trailer Showtime released on Friday.
The 33-second video features a camera panning over an atmospheric forest and the strains of Angelo Badalamenti's iconic synth-tastic theme music, as well as the composer himself, transposed over the ethereal landscape.
If that's not enough, fans of the original series will quickly find themselves transported back to the eccentric Pacific Northwest town when the face of Laura Palmer, the girl whose murder is the central mystery of the series, appears ghost-like onscreen. 
Fun fact: Badalamenti originally wrote the theme music, titled "Falling," for 1980s pop singer, Julee Cruise. It's an instrumental version of that song which features in the opening credits of the series. Badalamenti is returning to score the reboot, along with many of the original cast members, including Kyle MacLachlan, who is reprising his role as the "damn fine cup of coffee"-loving FBI Agent, Dale Cooper.
The 79-year-old composer shared a sweet tweet exchange with the series' co-creator, David Lynch, on Friday.
"Dear Twitter Friends, my dear brother, the brilliant @DamnGoodPie, is back! #twinpeaks," Lynch wrote. 
"I could not be more thrilled to be back. Much love, my brother. @davidlynch #twinpeaks," Badalamenti responded.
If you can't wait until 2017 for your Twin Peaks fix, revisit the 1990 set of the original series in this video, when the cast were still relative unknowns!
Here's what it looks like to live like an A-lister!
What a little cutie!
Kim Richards' daughter Brooke Wiederhorn gave birth to a baby boy on Wednesday, and now, the proud mama is introducing him to the world!
"Our baby boy, Hucksley Andrew Wiederhorn," Brooke, 30, shared Friday on Instagram. "We are SO in love."
So adorable, and such a great name!
This is the first child for Brooke and her husband, Thayer Wiederhorn, and is Richards’ first grandchild.
PHOTO: Kim Richards Adorably Cradles Pregnant Daughter Brooke Wiederhorn's Baby Bump
Watch the video below to see the Real Housewives of Beverly Hills' star daughter's baby announcement earlier this year.
Less than a week before Thomas Gibson's final episode of Criminal Minds, the CBS show has found his replacement.
Actor Damon Gupton has joined the crime show as a new series regular, set to make his debut in season 12's eighth episode. Gibson's last episode will air Wednesday.

Gupton will be joining the BAU with quite the law enforcement resume. In addition to his role on Bates Motel, the actor has played detectives on Empire, Prime Suspect, and Law & Order: Criminal Intent. As for his character on Criminal Minds, Gupton is sure to shake things up as seasoned profiler Special Agent Stephen Walker, coming to the BAU from the Behavioral Analysis Program of the FBI.
While the show's Sept. 28 series premiere left little indication of how Gibson will be exiting, it did introduce Adam Rodriguez's FBI Fugitive Task Force Agent Luke Alvez as another full-time member.
ET recently caught up with the Magic Mike star, where he dished all about his new character.
See more in the video below, and tune in to Criminal Minds on Wednesday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on CBS.
Molly Sims, Vivica A. Fox, Eve and Entertainment Tonight's Kevin Frazier dazzled on the blue carpet, as they turned out to support the La Vie En Blue gala fashion event for the Autism Speaks charity in Los Angeles on Thursday night.
ET caught up with Sims, who was co-hosting the event along with Frazier, before the event. The supermodel, who is pregnant with her third child, said being a mom brings the reality of autism diagnoses into focus.
"It's just now so prevalent that we have to really get in there and figure out the cause," the Las Vegas actress said. 
"You never know, it can affect your family -- if not your family, someone who is close to you, someone in your family," she added. "I know there is not six degrees of separation anymore, there is one degree of separation. And I think it's hard being a mom because you just pray that everything is going to be OK, and when it's not you do really want to see how everyone will rally and come together and find information and research and hopefully we will find a cause.”
Even so, the 43-year-old said she was looking forward to growing her "tribe" with the arrival of her third child.
"We are going to be like a little tribe, you know. This was a little bit of an unexpected present -- that happened a little unexpectedly, but we are so happy," she said. Sims has two children already with her husband of five years, film producer Scott Stuber -- a son, Brooks, born in 2012, and an 18-month-old daughter, Scarlett.
The night's other co-host, Frazier, also opened up about how being a parent highlighted the importance of autism research. "It's important to support this," he told ET. "We have boys and boys are five times more likely to… be born with autism. So it's very important to support." 
The Insider co-host, Keltie Knight, was one of the event's celebrity guest models and Frazier said he planned to give her a few words of wisdom. "I'm going to tell her to calm down and relax, you know, and be easy," he said. "I can't wait. She's all excited and it's going to be a trip. Keltie Knight on the runway. You better handle your business."
ET was a presenting sponsor of the high-fashion event, which featured a performance from Cirque du Soleil's Zumanity and a runway walked by celebrity guest models including Fox, who looked amazing in a bead-encrusted royal blue velvet gown, and actress Eve in a curve-hugging, lace-up dress. 
The Autism Speaks gala was held to raise funds to support the nonprofit's mission of funding biomedical research into autism and its effects, and raising awareness of its cause.
Where do you prefer to eat breakfast?
Jessica Biel shared another photo to Instagram on Friday of a peculiar habit she has -- eating in the shower. Not only that, but she seems to want to make it a thing!
"Yes. I eat in the shower. I admit it," The Illusionist star shared. "Chicken apple sausage and espresso. Try it. I dare you. #ShowerEats."
While the 34-year-old actresses fans appreciated her little life-hack, most ultimately didn't seem interested in taking up Biel's challenge.
"Wouldn't your food get wet and soggy?" one commenter asked. Another wrote, "Sorry nooo! Still love you Jessica."
Even so, some got where Biel was coming from!
"Is it a parent thing?" one commenter asked, while some others suggested substituting the coffee for a cold beer.
This certainly doesn’t seem to be a new thing for Biel! Just last week, the actress and mother shared a similar photo of her shower, writing, “Eating in the shower…we all do that…right?”
Well, to each their own!
FLASHBACK: Teenage Jessica Biel Reveals the Joys of Working on '7th Heaven'
Lupita Nyong'o is proving she's more than an Academy Award winner and style icon.
"I'm secretly a rapper," Nyong'o told ET's Cameron Mathison while promoting her film Queen of Katwe.
Nyong'o introduced her rapper alter ego, Troublemaker, to fans over the weekend in a video posted to Instagram. In the clip, the 33-year-old actress spits a few bars over an instrumental of Nas' 1994 song, "N.Y. State of Mind."
"Mexican born, Kenya runnin' through my veins // dark chocolate, plus I keep a sharp mane," she raps.
The short black-and-white music video, filmed in the back of a car, was posted in celebration of Nyong'o reaching three million followers on Instagram.
"Don't do critics // if you're hating, please save it," she adds.
Nyong'o's latest film, which was released in theaters last week, has been gaining awards buzz.
In Queen of Katwe, the Oscar winner plays the mother of a Ugandan girl who sees her world rapidly change after being introduced to the game of chess.
Watch the video for more.
Prince William and Kate Middleton are seeing the best Canada has to offer -- by air, land and sea!
The royal couple continued their Canadian tour at the Haida Heritage Centre and Museum in Haida Gwaii, British Columbia on Friday, setting sail in a canoe.
The couple arrived at the museum impeccably dressed, William going for the casual look in a navy sweater and Kate accessorizing her skinny jeans with a chic forest green jacket by Smythe, white ruffled top, and her favorite brown cowboy boots. 
The pair later headed down to the docks, where they were treated to a canoe ride by Haida warrior paddlers.
Next was a quick wardrobe change for Kate, who swapped out her blazer for a red sweater, as the couple embarked on a fishing expedition.
And just because they’re royal, doesn’t mean they’re afraid to get their hands dirty!
While Prince George and Princess Charlotte sat out of the day's activities, they made quite the impression during their outing on Thursday.
See the adorable tots in action in the video below.
Dancing With the Stars pro Emma Slater and her celebrity partner Rick Perry might have gotten the boot this week, but at least Slater has more time to decorate her new home with boyfriend and fellow DWTS pro Sasha Farber.
The couple, who have been dating for five years, moved into their cottage-style home in August, and they invited ET along for an epic house tour.
"I saw it and I was like, 'Oh my gosh! We have to get it,'" Slater gushed. "I didn't even go inside."
"The second we walked in, it was like, 'This is our home,'" Farber added.
Since moving in, the million-dollar hideaway has already become a hangout for their DWTS castmates.
"This is going to be the party house," Slater vowed.
In addition to the good times that will be had in their new home, there's also plenty of hard work going on as well.
"Right here is where all the choreography comes together," said Farber, who remains in the DWTS competition with partner Terra Jole. "We already choreographed all our routines in this room."
The parties and choreography might have to take a backseat to wedding planning in the near future.
PICS: Dancing With the Stars Season 23 -- See the Hot Pairings!
"Marriage is definitely in the cards," Farber said. "It's just there's no time at the moment. We're so busy. You never know. Maybe tomorrow or next week. Who knows?"
Dancing With the Stars airs Monday at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Weeks after her split from Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie might be heading back to the big screen.
The 41-year-old actress is in talks to star in TriStar's Shoot Like a Girl, a source close to production tells ET.
The upcoming film, based on Maj. Mary Jennings Hegar's soon-to-be released memoir, Shoot Like a Girl: One Woman's Dramatic Fight in Afghanistan and on the Home Front, centers on Hegar's three tours in Afghanistan as an elite rescue pilot, which earned her a Purple Heart and the Distinguished Flying Cross.
The film will also focus on Hegar taking on the Department of Defense to allow women on the front lines.
Jolie's possible involvement in the project fits when she told ET she was "looking forward" to participating in and supporting more women-centered projects.
"Many women are stepping forward and I look forward to people just seeing their work and giving them more opportunities, and I believe they will. They are," Jolie said at the 2014 junket for Unbroken. "So I look forward to all of that good work to come."
"I think it's just that as they say, 'if you don't study history, you're doomed to repeat it,'" she added of the importance of celebrating political achievements in film. "We must study history to learn from it, to not repeat the mistakes of the past."
The current draft of the Shoot Like a Girl was written by Frank Baldwin, and will be produced by Nicole Brown and Hannah Minghella.
While the source reveals that Jolie is only in talks to star in the film so far, mostly Jolie has focused her efforts behind the camera on projects like Unbroken, By the Sea, and the soon-to-be released Cambodia, sharing that she enjoys the added responsibility.
"I love being part of the entire process from beginning to end and dedicating years of my life to a story and learning about it and shepherding it all the way," Jolie revealed in 2014. "Even though it's a bit of a responsibility and in moments like this when we're about to release it, you feel a little pressure but it's a welcome pressure, because you stand by something and then... I guess I like the responsibility."
While Jolie is moving on to new projects, Pitt recently canceled his appearance at a recent premiere for his film, Voyage of Time.
"I'm very grateful to be part of such a fascinating and educational project, but I'm currently focused on my family situation and don’t want to distract attention away from this extraordinary film, which I encourage everyone to see," Pitt said in a statement obtained by ET.
See more in the video below.
Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna are putting the breakup rumors to bed... literally!
"Chyna's in bed with me," Rob said while calling into On Air With Ryan Seacrest on Friday.
"OK, so? There we go?" Chyna added.
Well, that certainly makes a statement!
During the phone chat, the Rob & Chyna stars jointly addressed recent rumors that they've split, saying, "We've been together the whole time."
"It's been a bumpy road, but a great road," Rob shared. "We're about to have a baby and we're definitely not split up."
EXCLUSIVE: Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna 'Not In a Good Place'
Speaking of the baby, the couple revealed that they have indeed chosen their child's name, though they would not reveal what it is!
"I guarantee you, none of y'all will guess it," Rob teased. "It does not start with a 'K.'"
Meanwhile, Rob also took a moment to apologize to his sister, Kylie Jenner, while explaining all the family baby shower drama that took place on Twitter this week, that culminated with Rob publicly tweeting her phone number.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Rob Kardashian's Baby Shower Drama, What Led Him to Tweet Kylie Jenner's Phone Number
"I thought they weren't having Chyna at our baby shower, Chyna's baby shower is actually this Sunday," the 29-year-old said. "But they were trying to do a little surprise 'guy' baby shower for me."
"I took it the wrong way," Rob confessed. "I probably shouldn't have went on Twitter but I did."
"I kinda just took all my anger out on Kylie and my family," he added. "I was just being petty and posted her number."
Rob added that these kinds of miscommunications are common in a family as big as his, and that everyone had moved past it, though he did add, "She definitely blocked me, and she didn't give me her new number."
"I'm sorry, Kylie, if you're listening," Rob apologized. "I love you!"
Listen to the entire call below.
Way to own up, Rob!
It's good that things appear to be on the mend with Rob and Chyna after their dramatic week. On Thursday, a source told ET, "Their relationship is not in a good place right now but they are working on it," adding that the chances of their reconciliation is "pretty high."
Then on Wednesday, the reality star Snapchatted several photos of himself in bed with his pregnant fiancee.
Watch the video below for more.
Lena Dunham has emotionally said goodbye to her hit show, Girls, with a touching series of Instagram posts and “45 minutes of sobbing.”
The actress, who has nabbed multiple awards for the HBO series, which she created and starred in, wrapped filming at 2 a.m. on Friday, then documented the difficult farewell on Instagram.
PHOTOS: Lena Dunham Bares Her Booty and Flashes a Peace Sign
“This is the end of the largest and most potent chapter of my life so far,” wrote the 30-year-old actress. “Before Girls, I had zero identity, zero self-love and an urgent sense of untapped creative desire that kept me up and sweating at night in other people's beds, wondering why vague sexual affirmation wasn’t enough to make me feel human.”
“I had hardly an inkling of the responsibility we take on when we tell stories, or of the power words can have, but what I had - as an obsessed fan of shows from Girlfriends to Felicity to Ally McBeal - was the audacity to think that people might want to see women like my friends and me (broken, imperfect, angry) on television,” continued the Golden Globe winner.
Dunham noted how she never dreamed she “could be so fulfilled” by making art and credited the series for helping her develop “an identity” and begin “my life in earnest.”
She also thanked the series’ crew for “putting up with my t*ts for six years,” and paid tribute to the show’s loyal fans.
“You've made me believe there was a place for the strange girls and the ones who don't know how to love quite yet,” she wrote. “And I know you'll give the same warm reception to all the radical & essential female voices coming to TV in the near future. Because we are just at the beginning of a golden era in which every woman -- no matter her race, religion, body-type, or the gender assigned to her at birth -- can tell her story and have it heard and recognized for its essential her-ness. Let's all make sure of that together, okay? We must.”
The series debuted in 2012 and the sixth and final season is expected to premiere in early 2017.
Although Dunham was crying a river after wrapping her final scenes, she noted that the difficult farewell was also something to cherish.
“To say I don't enjoy goodbyes is an understatement,” she wrote. “But, as a wise woman once told me, ‘Relish it. We so rarely get to choose our goodbyes.’ She's right.”
See the actress team up with America Ferrera in a DNC speech in the video below.
Is Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children Tim Burton's best movie? Heavens, no. But is it better than that other Tim Burton movie where Johnny Depp plays a vampire? Yes. Is it a tad too long, with a runtime clocking in somewhere over two hours? Yes. Does a boy fall in love with the same girl his grandfather fell in love with 60 years earlier? Yes. Are certain scenes as captivatingly cool as they are horrifying? Yes.
If you're wondering whether you should see Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children, well, the yeses are stacking up!
The movie, based on the series of young adult novels by Ransom Riggs, centers on Jake (Asa Butterfield), a tween peculiar in a whole host of ways. A visit to his grandfather takes a turn when Jake finds the old man bloody and eyeball-less in the woods and receives somewhat vague, absolutely insane instructions to visit a remote Welsh island and find Miss Peregrine (Eva Green, devouring scenery, spitting it back up, and chewing it all over again as a sort of Scary Poppins) and her titular home for her titular peculiar children.
Jake does as he's told and meets a cast of characters whose peculiarities include air floating, fire hands, super strength and a girl who can grow large carrots. Miss P.'s own peculiarity is rather complex: she can turn into a bird, but is also able to create time loops, which she's done to preserve her home on one particular day in 1943. If you started scratching your head as I got into loops, it's not because I'm explaining it poorly. There's much ado about loops in the movie, which proves fun enough, but think about it too hard and I guarantee you will only be more confused.
Burton has assembled a stacked cast -- as the opening titles rolled across the screen, I let out a shriek of, "Allison Janney is in this?!" She is! As is Judi Dench, for some reason! -- and through his eye, they are all beautifully shot, as is everything else the lens glances. (Great homes! Beautiful homes!) In his hands, the master of macabre has crafted something of a ghost story -- with time travel.
Now, here's a bit about how the sausage is made, as far as movie reviews are concerned: reviewers get a chance to see movies before they're released in theaters, though the downside to that is I'm often seeing movies exclusively with other adult journalists. At 27, I'm far enough removed from childhood that I don't remember as what it was like to be a child and far enough away from having my own child to be reminded, so I have a tenuous grasp on what kids are like these days. I bring this up, because this movie might scar your child for life. (Maybe. I can't say for sure.)
Take, for example, one scene involving a peculiar named Enoch (Finlay MacMillan), whose peculiarity is that he can put hearts in objects and make them come to life, essentially. He reveals this gift using stop-motion monsters he created -- think Sid from Toy Story -- that battle to the death. "It's even more fun with people!" he coos in delight as one puppet stabs the other puppet through the heart. The adults in my theater giggled, though I suspect it was in shock. That's all before Samuel L. Jackson shows up as a mad scientist who likes slurping on the eyeballs of dead children and looooves an evil monologue, accompanied by monsters that are a cross between Slender Man and Stranger Things.
Oh, and it's 1943. So, there are Nazis.
All that said, maybe it's not meant for children. I leave it open to your own interpretation that I was genuinely surprised when I found out afterward that Miss Peregrine is rated PG-13 -- for "intense sequences of fantasy action/violence and peril" -- and is not for the 8- to 12-year-old crowd I'd assumed. Or maybe it is and that's the point of this coming-of-age fable, as one scene late in the movie see Miss P. haranguing the fact that her job is to project her children, so she will not discuss unpleasant matters with them. To which Jake retorts, "I'm not a child."
Short of borrowing your child for the next screening -- unless you're cool with that? -- I will settle on this: Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children might give your kids nightmares, but the ones it doesn't are in for a wicked good ride.
Ben Affleck knows how to win brownie points at home.
While the 44-year-old actor accepts that his fame and his Oscars seem to carry very little weight around the house, there is one Hollywood card he can use to put a smile on his kids' faces.
"I introduced my two girls to Taylor Swift," Affleck tells ET's Carly Steel while promoting his new movie, The Accountant. "It was like God came down and walked on water. They didn't say a thing. They were totally frozen."
ET took Affleck back to his own childhood days by showing him a 1984 clip of himself as a pre-teen in the educational series, The Voyage of the Mimi. Affleck admits that his children haven't seen his early work, but not for lack of interest.
"I don't talk much about being a child actor because I don't want them to get any ideas about doing it themselves," he explains.
As a father of three children (Violet, 10, Seraphina, 7, and Samuel, 4), Affleck's kids are the most important part of his life, which is a far cry from the loner character he plays in The Accountant.
In the chilling crime thriller, Affleck stars as freelance accountant Christian Wolff, who has more affinity for numbers than people. Behind the cover of a small-town CPA office, Wolff cooks and uncooks the books for some of the world's most dangerous criminal organizations, but when the Treasury Department's Crime Enforcement Division, run by Ray King (J.K. Simmons), starts to close in on him, the body count starts to rise.
"The real fun actually was training for fight scenes and the physicality of it," Affleck says. "I was really dedicated to make the action as good, as realistic and with as much me as possible."
The Accountant hits theaters Oct. 14.
Meow!
Kendall Jenner just got some new ink, but only those who get up close and personal with the reality star will score a proper look at it.
The 20-year-old Victoria’s Secret model had the word “Meow” forever emblazoned onto her inner lip.
Tattoo artist Jonboy, from New York’s West 4 Tattoo, shared a snap of the new artwork on Instagram on Thursday.
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star is no stranger to going under the needle.
Despite her big sister, Kim Kardashian West, having advised against getting inked in the past, her tats include a broken heart on her left middle finger, which she says represents her “devil side.”
Jenner isn’t the only celebrity with new ink.
Demi Lovato recently had a happy face tattooed onto her pinky finger, while Rihanna cemented her love for Drake by getting a shark inked onto her ankle in his honor.
See more of Rihanna’s bold declaration of love in the video below.
Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have agreed to a temporary custody deal, ET can confirm.
After the Department of Children and Family Services made its recommendations, Jolie and Pitt came to a temporary agreement that lasts until Oct. 20, a source familiar with the deal tells ET. The agreement is voluntary and is a DCFS safety plan --  also known as a structured decision making (SDM) safety plan -- which is standard practice in any ongoing child welfare investigation.
Jolie and Pitt each volunteered to participate in individual counseling, and Pitt also agreed to undergo drug and alcohol testing, though he was not required to, sources tell ET.
"She is only concerned with the health and safety of her children, that is how she feels at this moment," a source close to the situation says of 41-year-old Jolie.
Full physical and legal child custody has not been determined yet, according to sources close to the situation.
Pitt's first visit with his children will have to be with a therapist present, who can then either allow the actor future unmonitored visits, or insist on being present when he's around the kids, TMZ first reported.
The public information officer for the Los Angeles County Superior Court tells ET they have not received court documents pertaining to the Pitt-Jolie child custody case.
A source close to the Pitt-Jolie child custody dispute told ET on Thursday that camps for the A-list stars had recently been having "productive discussions."
"The fact that things have quieted down is a good sign for everyone," the source noted.
The source also previously told ET that while authorities did not require 52-year-old Pitt to take an earlier drug test, he voluntarily took one as a sort of preemptive strike in the custody battle process.
Pitt wanted to resolve his issues with Jolie "amicably and privately," according to the source, adding that he had become frustrated by the "smear campaign" being lodged against him.
ET confirmed on Thursday that Jolie's team was consulting with world-renowned crisis manager Judy Smith, the real-life inspiration for Kerry Washington's character, Olivia Pope, on the hit ABC drama Scandal. Earlier, a source close to the Pitt-Jolie situation told ET that the actress' closest female friends, Lady Arminka Helic and Chloe Dalton, had been advising Jolie and had been "fueling the actress' aggressive approach against Pitt" from the beginning.
But Jolie wasn't the only one beefing up her representation. Last week, a source told ET that a New York-based strategic communications firm had been asked to advise Pitt. The actor also enlisted Beverly Hills attorney Lance Spiegel as one his lawyers, who's previously represented many celebs in family law issues, including Eva Longoria in her divorce from Tony Parker.
Prior to their split, the power couple did not have personal public relations representatives.
Jolie had asked for physical custody of their children in her divorce filing earlier this month -- 15-year-old Maddox, 10-year-old Shiloh, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox -- and listed their date of separation as Sept. 15. The two were married for two years, but had been dating since 2004, after meeting on the set of Mr. & Mrs. Smith while Pitt was still married to Jennifer Aniston.
Watch the video below for a timeline on Pitt and Jolie's relationship and subsequent shocking split.
Kim Kardashian West paid tribute to her late father, Robert Kardashian, Sr., by putting together a montage of home movies that show him spending time with his now famous family.
Friday marked the 13th anniversary of when her dad died, and Kim thought it important to let her fans see how much he meant to her and her siblings, Khloe, Kourtney and Rob Kardashian.
"Dad passed away 13 years ago today and we miss him every single day but today we wanted to share with you a glimpse of who he was," Kim wrote. "It was hard to find footage of our dad since he loved to film us and was always behind the camera but here's a little look into who he was to us."
Robert Kardashian, Sr. -- who was best known as one of O.J. Simpson's attorneys during his double-murder trial -- was 59 when he died in 2003 after battling cancer.
In February, Kim, Khloe and Kourtney remembered their father on what would have been his 72nd birthday. "So much has gone on in our lives since you've been gone, and I know you have been my guardian angel seeing it all unfold!" Kim wrote at the time. "I love you and miss you so much!"
That same day, the 35-year-old reality star also shared the first photo of her son, Saint. "Today is my dad's birthday. I know there's nothing more in the world he would have wanted than to meet his grandchildren," she captioned the pic. "So I wanted to share this pic of Saint with you all."
Here's a look at how Khloe and Kourtney paid tribute to their late father:
"To be political and all that," things are all good between January Jones and Ashton Kutcher!
The Mad Men star sat down with Andy Cohen on Thursday's Watch What Happens Live, where she had to clear up a fan question regarding whether her ex-boyfriend, Ashton Kutcher, said she couldn't act!
"January, have you talked to Ashton Kutcher since he said you couldn't act?" a fan calling into the program asked. "And what do you think of his acting skills?"
PHOTO: January Jones Shares New Tattoo in Honor of Her Son Xander
"Ooh, ouch," responded the 38-year-old actress, slightly taken aback.
"You said in an article ... that he has said that about you, right?" asked Cohen, referencing a 2009 GQ article where Jones discusses an unsupportive boyfriend, whom the writer does indeed identify as Kutcher.
But as Jones tells it, that's not quite what she said, or whom she said it about... necessarily.
"No, I didn't," she answered. "I said that someone I had dated previously wasn't encouraging of my acting. Not that I couldn't. I don't know if that person had ever actually seen me act."
"The person who wrote the interview did the math and thought it might be him," Jones adds. "I never really said who it was."
"Was it him?" Cohen pressed, but Jones merely responded with a smile.
PHOTOS: Goodbye Betty Draper-Francis – A Look Back at Her 7 Most Iconic 'Mad Men' Fashion Moments!
Guess we'll never know for sure!
While being coy about the mystery ex, Jones did have kind words for Kutcher and his wife, Mila Kunis, who are currently expecting their second child together.
"I haven't talked to him, but I'm super happy for him and his family," she said, hilariously adding, "to be political and all that."
Watch the moment go down below.
EXCLUSIVE: January Jones Tries to Feed Will Forte on 'Last Man on Earth' and Makes Matters Worse!
Meanwhile, Jones recently celebrated her 5-year-old son Xander's birthday with a sweet throwback snap of her adorable little guy.
Watch the video below to see the rare photo.
We're so ready for The Weight of These Wings!
Miranda Lambert revealed the new album art for her highly anticipated album on Friday, posting the stunning black-and-white shot to Instagram.
The 32-year-old "Vice" singer poses on what looks like a farm, with an iron fence in the shape of wings positioned just so behind her back. Lambert looks decidedly serious in the shot, walking towards the camera in a sparkly gown with her trusty guitar in hand.
Lambert's sixth studio album will be released on Nov. 18.
"The last year of my life has been one of heartache and healing ... Of learning to be honest .... Accepting the flaws and celebrating the smiles. Finding peace in dark places," she shared earlier this year. "Music is medicine. This means the world to me. Thank you for joining me on this journey."
Music is medicine seems to have been something of a mantra for the Texas native since splitting from ex-husband Blake Shelton in 2015. She said the same thing while enjoying a girls night out with country icon Shania Twain last year! Relive the moment in the video below.
While Kim Kardashian West is busting out the gold grills and cut-out jumpsuits at Paris Fashion Week, Jennifer Lawrence is wearing, gasp, jeans.
The 26-year-old actress arrived at the Christian Dior show on Friday wearing hip-hugging, loose-fit jeans that she rolled up to mid-calf. She paired the denim with a small choker, a simple pair of black stilettos and a sheer black top.
Lawrence -- who is the face of Dior -- also donned a pair of round sunglasses and a leather jacket.
While Lawrence kept her look simple and stylish, Kim and her sister, Kourtney Kardashian, have been stepping out all week in head-turning looks. At Thursday night's Balmain after-show party, the reality stars wore matching gold and silver ensembles that were hard to miss.
Kim paired her dress with a gold grill and clear heels, while Kourtney wore a sparkly bra top with a high-waisted skirt. Check out these shocking style statements:
Now this is how you slay a photo shoot!
Heidi Klum had the time of her life as she and her team enjoyed a “swim shoot” for the supermodel’s latest Heidi Klum Intimates collection.
EXCLUSIVE: Heidi Klum and Tim Gunn Say Season 15 Returns ‘Project Runway’ to Show’s Original Glory
Showing off her killer bod in a tiny black bikini, the 43-year-old Project Runway star shared her aquatic adventures with a series of snaps and Boomerang videos on Instagram.
In one video, the mom of four pulls off the most epic hair flick, while another sees her giddily frolicking through shallow waters inside a cave.
The group also posed on the rocks while one member of the team channeled a dolphin, before calling it a wrap and hopping on a private plane home.
EXCLUSIVE: Heidi Klum on Those Topless Vacation Photos
Of course, this isn't the first time that Klum has flaunted her enviable bikini bod.
Most recently, she made headlines for going topless during a Caribbean getaway with her kids. See more in the video below.
It's safe to say Rob Kardashian doesn't do too well around groups of people.
In a new preview of Sunday's Rob & Chyna, the 29-year-old reality star gets visible anxiety prior to a barbecue. After letting his pregnant fiancee, Blac Chyna, know that all of the guests coming are "good friends," Chyna has to comfort Rob before the get-together.
"C'mon, let's go downstairs," she says, rubbing his back reassuringly. "C'mon, Boom Boom."
Still, Rob tells cameras that he's "uncomfortable" before his friends arrive.
"When the doorbell rings ... I don't know, I just get real uncomfortable," he admits. "I can't explain it. It's just how I am."
But Scott Disick insists that the gathering is "good" for Rob.
"I'm honestly a little surprised he actually showed up for this barbecue," Scott says. "I couldn't be happier and I know that it's gonna be good for him."
In a previous clip from the episode, Scott has to convince Chyna to have the barbecue.
"Do you think it should be a surprise? Because I feel like Rob always gets nervous and chokes up when he's around a lot of people," Chyna says.
Rob & Chyna airs Sundays at 9 p.m. on E!
This week has been non-stop drama for the couple, and it all came to a head on Thursday night, when 28-year-old Chyna tweeted out Rob's phone number to her 690,000 followers. The move came just four days after Rob tweeted out his little sister Kylie Jenner's phone number, over what a source told ET was a misunderstanding on Rob's part about a baby shower his famous family was throwing for him.
"To ensure your man is not texting no b****es, just tweet his number out," Chyna said in a Snapchat video after sending the tweet, with Rob standing right next to her. “How’s that feel, Rob?”
"All these females want to keep texting his phone 'cause they had his number before, talking about, 'You good? You and Chyna good?' No, we good. We good. We straight," she added.
A source close to Rob told ET on Tuesday that Rob and Chyna's relationship has been strained in recent days. "Rob and Chyna haven't been doing well lately," the source said. "Rob is in one of his funks right now."
According to the source, Rob is "in a bad place right now" due to the stress of Chyna being pregnant, as well as filming  their E! reality show. Rob also apparently "wasn't ready" to be back in the spotlight -- after previously being away from Keeping Up With the Kardashians for two years -- but felt pressured to work again and "get his life together" once Chyna got pregnant.
"The stress led to major fights," the source said. "Chyna and Rob are not in a good place right now, which then sets him into a downward spiral."
"... But they are working on it," the source added.
It appeared to be all good between Rob and Chyna on Wednesday, when the father-to-be shared several videos of him and Chyna in bed, showing off her baby bump.
Watch below:
Blake Lively is a new mama again!
The Shallows star gave birth to her second child with Ryan Reynolds at a New York City hospital earlier this week, a source confirms to ET.
The 29-year-old actress and her Deadpool star husband, 39, had their first child, daughter James, in December 2014.
Congrats, Blake and Ryan!
Watch the video below for a look at Lively's stunning pregnancy style.
Julianne Hough is speaking out after Amber Rose said she felt "body shamed" by the Dancing With the Stars judge when she critiqued her moves on the dance floor.
"My comments were solely reacting to the quality of the dance I was judging," Hough, 28, said in a statement to ET. "I have been a strong proponent of female empowerment and an anti-bullying advocate for years and I take that very seriously."
She added, "Any kind of body shaming is the furthest thing from who I am and what I stand for."
On Play.it's Loveline this week, Rose let it be known that she was not pleased with Hough's remarks about her dance. "They did the commentary, and I, it was a point in the dance where I had to lift my leg up and Maks [Chmerkovskiy] dipped me, and [Hough] said, ‘Oh, I'm uncomfortable,' and instantly I felt, I did feel body shamed," the 32-year-old model said.
"You know, all the beautiful professional dancers that are on Dancing With the Stars, I mean, they dress very sexy and they do the splits and they grind up on these guys and they look absolutely stunning and get a standing ovation," she continued. "And me, and my body, my hips, my a**, my breasts made her uncomfortable."
Padma Lakshmi feels good in her lingerie and wants the world to know it.
On Thursday night, the 46-year-old Top Chef host posted a pic of herself proudly posing in a matching black bra and underwear. "Don't hate because I'm in lingerie," she captioned the sexy image. "Moms do that sometimes."
Lakshmi has a 6-year-old daughter, Krishna Thea Lakshmi-Dell, and was quite candid in her book that came out this year, Love, Loss and What We Ate, that she initially didn't know who the father of her child was when she became pregnant in 2009. At the time, she was dating two men after her divorce from Salman Rushdie in 2007.
EXCLUSIVE: Ashley Graham Flaunts Her Figure in Sexy Lingerie, Reveals 'Regretful' Pre-New York Fashion Week Meal
"I probably shouldn't have been with anybody and just taken the time I needed for myself, but I was presented with two very different, very interesting men, and you know, men do it all the time," she explained on the Today show in March. "I chose to do it. I was open with the men involved, and I'm gonna own my history. That's what I did."
A paternity test eventually revealed that Adam Dell -- the brother of computer mogul Michael Dell -- is the father of Krishna.
MORE: Padma Lakshmi on Gaining Weight -- 'Only Benefit Is What It Does to Your Boobs!'
While it appears Lakshmi had full creative control over her recent lingerie-clad pic, she admitted to ET in April that, like many other stars, she too has had to deal with unwanted Photoshopping.
"It happened to me actually and I was really angry about it. I like the color of my skin," she said. "It's taken me a long time to feel comfortable with who I am and I think when you're a brown person living in a white world, it's especially sensitive. I also ask people not to retouch my scar, because I thought it was important for other young women to see that it's not all perfect."
Armie Hammer gave away a little too much information during his appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! on Thursday, accidentally letting it drop that he's expecting a baby boy with wife Elizabeth Chambers.
The 30-year-old Birth of a Nation star was asked if he knew the sex of his second baby -- and Kimmel expressly told him he didn't have to reveal it -- when he let it slip.
"I do know," Hammer said. "You can find out now at nine weeks, which is really bizarre. They do a blood test. They test if there are hormones in there. They go, 'Oh, you've got testosterone -- so you've either got balls or you're having a baby boy.'"
Hammer and 34-year-old Chambers are already parents to their 1-year-old daughter, Harper. The two announced they were expecting their second child earlier this month with a sweet Instagram post.
"Ready to start the #torontointernationalfilmfestival festivities," Hammer captioned a pic of him touching his wife's baby bump. "All three of us!"
Hammer isn't the first celeb to accidentally divulge the sex of her baby to Kimmel. In March 2013, a pregnant Jessica Simpson accidentally revealed she was having a baby boy.
"It's a total different pregnancy. I just feel awful," Simpson said about her second pregnancy. "I've been vomiting. The crazy thing is I never knew that a wiener could actually make me nauseous."
Oops.
"I didn't even know what was happening," Kimmel laughed after Simpson pointed out her big slip-up. "I thought maybe you were having a girl with a penis. I don't know. Well, congratulations."
Watch the cute moment below:
Olivia Wilde will soon be giving birth to her second child, but in the meantime, she's looking back at all the fun she had over the summer.
On Throwback Thursday, the 32-year-old actress shared a makeup-free photo of herself lounging on a boat with her and Jason Sudeikis' 2-year-old son Otis, while cradling her growing baby bump. "#tbt Summer boat ride with my OG and my any-day-now G," she captioned the sweet pic.
PHOTOS: Pregnant Olivia Wilde Is Baby Bumpin' in Red -- See Her Glam Maternity Look!
Wilde does look ready to give birth "any day now." The Vinyl star hit the stage to introduce Kendrick Lamar at last weekend's Global Citizen Festival in New York City and didn't even try to hide her huge baby bump.
PHOTOS: Olivia Wilde Is Glowing as She Shows Off Baby Bump in Bikini
"Bringing the bump out to 60,000 Global Citizens to introduce my all time 🙌 KENDRICK LAMAR. #lookbothwaysbeforeyoucrossmymind," she quipped on Instagram.
In June, Wilde spoke to ET about what it was like giving birth to Otis and then going almost immediately back to work on her then HBO show, Vinyl. “Emotionally I think you're quite raw after you've giving birth,” she told ET. “Actually, the creative outlet is a kind of a wonderful way to express it and I felt lucky because I wondered about so many women who give birth and then are tensed up in their houses, breastfeeding, feeling like cattle. They have no outlet for all this incredible inspiration that comes out of the experience of giving birth.”
Wilde also revealed last week the gender of her and Sudeikis' baby to be. Check out her subtle reveal:
Fans might actually be able to see Ben Higgins and Lauren Bushnell tie the knot on TV.
The popular Bachelor couple recently opened up about their upcoming nuptials, revealing that they would love to have a televised wedding "hopefully next year." 
"I think it's a cool opportunity," Higgins told ET's Lauren Zima. "We've invited everybody into our life up to this point, why not let them continue?"
"When it comes to the wedding, if that's an opportunity or possibility, it's a really great one for us," he added. "It would almost be stupid not to. And you're going to have cameras at your wedding anyway. There's going to be people following you around no matter what, so why not add a whole production crew?"
"I think Lauren and I would love to see that happen, and I think it would be really fun. It would be a nice culmination to everything," he shared. "November will be a year since we got engaged, so it's not this super quick time frame."
But while the couple agrees that exchanging vows in front of a TV audience would be nice, that's about all they've decided on.
"We have done a little bit of wedding planning, and hopefully you'll see some of that on the show," Bushnell said, referring to their upcoming Freeform series, Ben & Lauren: Happily Ever After?, adding that most of their plans are just "thoughts" at this point. "We're  really trying to figure out what's best for us, because our lives have been really going 100 miles per hour."
Speaking of the show, the pair also addressed the big question mark in the title. 
"We don't know what our happily ever after looks like," Bushnell confessed.
"Everyone saw our fairy tale, but we also have had a roller coaster of a ride, like in any relationship," Higgins agreed. "We want to show the viewers what real relationships look like. We aren't perfect. We have our issues and joys and things we have overcome, and the question mark is the ups and downs of a relationship."
Ben & Lauren: Happily Ever After? premieres Oct. 11 on Freeform.
It's safe to say Kandi Burruss and husband Tom Tucker aren't flying on Hawaiian Airlines any time soon.
The 40-year-old Real Housewives of Atlanta star claimed on Thursday that she and her husband, Todd Tucker, were kicked off a Hawaiian Airlines flight "for no reason." Burruss said the two were accused of causing "some sort of commotion" after she requested her ticket back from a flight attendant who took it.
"This was so crazy & random!" Burruss writes, posting video of the plane. "We were sitting in our seat & the gate ticketer came on & asked to see my ticket because it wasn't showing up in their system. I gave him my ticket but it had our baggage claim checks on the back. He never brought it back & the plane started rolling off. I asked the flight attendant where was my ticket & told him I needed the baggage claim ticket just in case my bags didn't make the flight."
And this is when she claims things took a turn for the worse.
"The flight attendant left & came back & said the pilot was calling to check & then the next thing I know this lady comes on the plane & said she needed Todd & I to get off the plane because we caused some sort of commotion...  Really????" the reality star continues. "I barely said a word to that flight attendant. Everybody sitting around us was like what are they talking about! This s**t is crazy."
ET has reached out to Hawaiian Airlines for comment.
Burruss, of course, isn't the only celeb who's been kicked off of a plane. Last August, singer Jason Derulo exclusively told ET why he and his posse were thrown off a Southwest flight from Reno, Nevada, to Los Angeles.
"It was a little mishap," Derulo told ET at the Teen Choice Awards. "Basically, there was a little confrontation with the people that work at the front."
"One of the guys came on the plane, and one of my people were like, 'You're full of s**t,'" he continued. "They were like, 'You guys got to get out of the plane.' They kicked us all off the plane."
Watch below:
Nicole Kidman is reflecting on her marriage to her first husband, Tom Cruise.
The 49-year-old actress has been notoriously tight-lipped on her more than decade-long marriage to Cruise, which ended in 2001. But in a candid new interview, Kidman says she can't believe she married Cruise at just 23 years old, after the two met on the set of 1990's Days of Thunder.
"I was so young when I got married," Kidman acknowledges to Red magazine. "I look back now and I'm like, 'What?'"
Still, the Oscar-winning actress has no regrets -- even when she compares herself to celebs these days.
"You look at Taylor Swift, I mean how old is she? She's 26. I had two kids by the time I was 27 and I'd been married for four years," she says. "But that's what I wanted."
Kidman eventually remarried, tying the knot with country star 48-year-old Keith Urban in 2006. The two are one of the most romantic couples in the business, and the Australian star says she's learned a lot about maintaining a marriage the second time around.
"When you're older, you've been through things, you've made mistakes," she explains. "So, you come into it [a second marriage], still giddy, but wanting it to last. We always consider the 'us.' We say, 'Is this going to be good for us?' It's the simplest phrase, but it works."
Of course, she admits that her relationship with Urban hasn't always been the smoothest. But these days, the couple -- who celebrated their 10th anniversary in June -- are "stronger than ever."
"It was really up and down for the first three months," Kidman shares. "We've been through a lot for ten years. And we're stronger than ever. I say that while touching wood, and no way in a boastful way. I just say it with wonder -- absolute wonder."
Kidman has two daughters with Urban, 8-year-old Sunday Rose and 5-year-old Faith Margarat, who was born via surrogate. She also has two children she adopted with Cruise, 23-year-old Isabella and 21-year-old Connor.
"My husband says I'm 'deeply maternal,'" she notes. "I like to take care of people. It brings me a lot of joy."
"Motherhood is about the journey," she adds. "There are going to be incredible peaks and valleys, whether you are an adopting mother or a birth mother. What a child needs is love."
ET spoke with Kidman and Urban in January at the Screen Actors Guild Awards, when they talked about how they make their marriage work.
"Just want it more than anything," Urban said. "That's it, isn't it?"
"Yeah, prioritize it," Kidman echoed. "Also, as much as we love each other, we really like each other. I'm speaking for myself, but that is a huge part of being married. Always, the first person I want to share anything with is him. It's true."
Watch the sweet interview below:
Marvel's Luke Cage is here! All together now: Sweet _______________!
If you need help filling in that blank -- that'd be "Sweet Christmas!" -- you've come to the right place. All 13 episodes of Netflix’s third Marvel series dropped at midnight and whether you're tuning in because Luke Cage is the first black superhero to front his own project -- about damn time -- or for how good Mike Colter looks in a fitted tee, you might have a few questions. Before you binge, we have the answers.
EXCLUSIVE: Marvel's Head of TV Reveals How 'The Defenders' Will Be Different From 'The Avengers'
Wait...Who Is Luke Cage? Perhaps you know him as Power Man? Luke has been punching his way through Marvel comics since '72, when he was framed for a crime and underwent experimental procedures in prison that gave him his super strength and unbreakable skin. Luke -- played by Mike Colter -- made his onscreen debut in the Marvel Cinematic Universe last year in Jessica Jones.
Do I Need to Watch Jessica Jones to Understand Luke Cage?  The short answer: no. Long answer: this series picks up five or so months after the events of Jessica Jones and anything you absolutely need to know will be re-explained. Here's the gist of it, anyway: Luke owned a bar. It blew up. He and Jessica had a looooot of sex. (She's the "rebound girl" mentioned in episode one.) She killed his wife while under mind control. They went their separate ways.
"They are pieces of a puzzle," Marvel's Head of TV, Jeph Loeb, told ET of the various Netflix series. "We're hoping that you enjoy [these seasons] like novels, that you would enjoy each as it stands alone, but if you put them all together, it is a much larger canvas we're working with...Marvel's Jessica Jones told the story through Jessica's eyes -- as it should be -- so it was very much her POV of who Luke is. We're now getting to see Luke in his own world and in his own POV and what happened along the way. So, hopefully what will happen is people will watch Marvel's Luke Cage and then go back and watch Jessica Jones and go, 'Now I have a greater understanding as to why he is the way that he is in that show.'"
Is Krysten Ritter Even in This? Nope. At least, not in the first seven episodes -- so there's still a chance she could pop up. If a brunette with superhuman strength drops in, that's Jessica.
But What About His Super Powers? Doesn't He Have Those Already? Yes, he does. We saw him test the limits of his invincibility on Jessica Jones and when Luke Cage begins, he's well accustomed to being bulletproof. That said, we haven't seen how he got his powers. In Jessica Jones, he made an offhand mention of "experiments." That Easter egg is fully fleshed out into his origin story in episode four.
Anyone Else I Need to Remember? Here's one that you don't: the mourning mother Alfre Woodard played in Captain America: Civil War -- the one who confronted Tony Stark about her dead son at the beginning of the film. Woodard's character in Luke Cage, Mariah Dillard, is totally unrelated. In this case, it's not all connected.
Otherwise, it will prove useful to recall Reva Connors (Parisa Fitz-Henley), Luke's late wife, who still haunts him, and Claire Temple (Rosario Dawson, continuing her streak of popping up in every series). After all, Claire was the one who nursed Luke back to health after he was shot in the face. (Don’t ask.) But that's about it. Oh, and The Avengers get namechecked, but we don't need to explain who they are, right?
Will I Need to Watch Luke Cage to Understand the Next Netflix MCU Shows? See: No. 3. Theoretically, no, but next year, Luke, Jessica, Daredevil (Charlie Cox) and Danny Rand aka Iron Fist (Finn Jones) will team up for The Defenders -- essentially, The Avengers of the Netflix universe -- so you'll save yourself having to read a primer then if you watch now. We have a feeling things are only going to become more intertwined after that, too. Google "Heroes for Hire," if you want to know more.
What About Everything That's Happening on Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.? What about everything that's happening on Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D....?
Britney Spears may not be a fan of Ariana Grande's impression of her, but she is a fan of her music.
While hosting Saturday Night Live in March, Grande covered Spears' debut single, "...Baby One More Time," and mimicked her distinctive voice during a sketch where she portrayed a Tidal intern. While many fans thought the 23-year-old singer -- who also impersonated Rihanna and Celine Dion in the sketch -- nailed the pop princess' voice, Spears was not as impressed.
"That’s funny. That’s really funny, wow," she reacted during an interview on London's KISS FM UK. "I've heard better."
Spears is impressed, however, with Grande's music. "She’s very good. … I love her voice," the 34-year-old singer added. "It’s very smooth. Her real voice."
Celine Dion also reacted to Grande's impersonation of her. "When I met Celine, she was like, 'When I saw you, I peed,'" Grande recalled on Z100's Elvis Duran and the Morning Show. "It was so funny."
Amber Rose was not pleased with Julianne Hough's critique of her on Dancing With the Stars.
The 32-year-old model let it be known on Play.it's Loveline that she felt Hough, who's a judge on the ABC show, had "body shamed" her after her recent dance. "They did the commentary, and I, it was a point in the dance where I had to lift my leg up and Maks [Chmerkovskiy] dipped me, and [Hough] said, ‘Oh, I'm uncomfortable,' and instantly I felt, I did feel body shamed," Rose told Loveline co-host Dr. Chris Donaghue.
Like Rose, Hough has spoken out about embracing her own curves and the struggles she faced in the past when it came to accepting her body. "I love my shape because I feel strong and fit, and that makes me feel confident," the 28-year-old star told the September issue of Shape magazine. "When I look at pictures of myself when I was 19, my body was bangin’, but I was killing myself."
"I wasn’t healthy. To be honest, I looked like a kid," she added. "Now I’m embracing the fact that I’m a woman with curves."
Rose will have to face Hough again when DWTS returns on Monday night.
EXCLUSIVE: Julianne and Derek Hough Open Up About Returning to Dancing With the Stars -- 'It Should Be Fun'
When ET spoke with Rose about her debut dance with Chmerkovskiy on the show, she said that she hoped to "shock people a little bit."
"I want us to go out with a bang," she exclaimed.
Kim Kardashian West and Kourtney Kardashian are making quite the stylish scene at Paris Fashion Week -- and Thursday night was no different.
The famous sisters showed up in matching gold and silver outfits for the Balmain aftershow party, and Kim had an extra special accessory to tie her ensemble together. In addition to her all-black sunglasses and clear heels, the 35-year-old reality star also donned a gold grill.
Meanwhile, Kourtney was making her own style statement in a sparkly bra top, strappy high heels and a high-waisted skirt -- which matched Kim's dress. "Then after the show, it's the after party," Kourtney captioned a photo herself and Kim in their Balmain ensembles.
Kim's husband, Kanye West, was also at the after party and he too rocked a grill like his wife.
Kourtney and Kim's matching outfits weren't even the wildest styles they wore that day. Check out the insane cut-out and pantsless looks they rocked at the Balmain Spring/Summer 2017 show:
Kaley Cuoco and her boyfriend Karl Cook made their red carpet debut at the Longines Masters Los Angeles Gala in Long Beach, California on Thursday. The Big Bang Theory star donned a colorful floor length wrap dress perfectly matching the colors in Cook's pale gray suit and blue hat.
The cute couple couldn't have looked happier as they held hands and sweetly smiled at each other while posting for the cameras.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Big Bang Theory' Star Kaley Cuoco Adorably Admits She's Still Not Sure What Love Is
Before they stepped out for the night, Cuoco, 30, Instagrammed a close-up view of her hair and makeup which she jokingly captioned, "Shocked that my girls actually did an OK job tonight."
In June, the actress gushed about connecting with Cook over their mutual love for animals. "He's special," Cuoco told CBS This Morning. "I think that the horse connection is special. Yeah, he's special."
MORE: Kaley Cuoco Exposes Her Bare Breast on Snapchat, Kisses Boyfriend Karl Cook!
The actress recently shared more about her relationship with Cook, and divorce from her ex-husband, Ryan Sweeting, with the ladies of The Talk.  See more in the video below.
Blade Runner fans have been waiting for years for director Ridley Scott's sequel to finally come to fruition, and now, Ryan Gosling is giving one lucky fan the chance to actually visit the set.
The Nice Guys star is teaming up with Omaze to raise money for the Enough Project, which aims to support peace and justice in war-torn areas of Africa. Fans who make a donation to the cause will be entered in the chance to win a trip to Budapest, where the Blade Runner sequel is filming, to watch the filming of some scenes and tour the stage.
In this short video promoting the charity drive, Gosling says it's possible that the lucky winner might meet Blade Runner star Harrison Ford, but adds that the "most exciting part" is  Gosling might "let you drive my golf cart."
If Gosling is in the golf cart with you, that could indeed be the most exciting part.
According to Omaze, the winner is actually guaranteed a chance to meet both stars, get a behind-the-scenes look at production during filming and, while in Budapest, will stay at a luxurious four-star hotel.
The long-awaited sequel takes place decades after the 1982 original, which told the story of police detective Rick Deckard (Ford) who is tasked with identifying and "retiring" (a.k.a. killing) androids known as replicants, which are nearly identical to human beings.
Ford is set to reprise his iconic role in the as-yet-untitled sequel, while Gosling's role has not yet been revealed. The stars are joined by Suicide Squad's Jared Leto, who signed on in August, as well as Robin Wright, Dave Bautista and Ana de Armas.
For more information on how to donate for a chance to win, check out the Blade Runner page on Omaze here. Every $10 donation gives you 100 entries for the chance to win.
Angelina Jolie is bringing out the big guns amid her very public divorce from Brad Pitt.
The actress' team is consulting with world-renowned crisis manager Judy Smith, ET confirmed on Thursday.
Smith, who was the real-life inspiration for Kerry Washington's character, Olivia Pope, on the hit ABC drama Scandal, has been retained by the 41-year-old Oscar winner's reps as they continue to meet with Pitt's team to hash out the details of their divorce.
The 57-year-old "fixer" is the owner of Smith & Company, which has advised many embattled celebrities such as Wesley Snipes, Monica Lewinski and Michael Vick, as well as a number of large corporations who were struggling with image problems and negative publicity.
Pitt recently brought a heavy hitter onto his legal lineup as well, hiring Beverly Hills attorney Lance Spiegel as one his lawyers. Spiegel has famously represented a number of celebs in family law issues, including Eva Longoria during her divorce from Tony Parker.
Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt earlier this month, citing "irreconcilable differences." In her divorce filing, she asked for physical custody of their children -- 15-year-old Maddox, 10-year-old Shiloh, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox.
As the contentious divorce negotiations continue, a source close to the dispute between Jolie and Pitt told ET on Wednesday that the stars' camps have been having "productive discussions."
"The fact that things have quieted down is a good sign for everyone," the source notes. Check out the video below to hear more.
Mary J. Blige wants you to vote.
The 45-year-old singer recently partnered with ATTN:'s 3 Minutes video campaign to get the word out on voter registration, and only ET has an exclusive first look at her powerful clip.
"I grew up in a housing project called Schlobohm," Blige says of her childhood in the video. "We were constantly fighting for our lives to survive."

This isn't the first time Blige has gotten political. Earlier this week, Apple Music released  a preview of the singer's interview with Hillary Clinton for her radio show, The 411 with Mary J. Blige, in which she serenades the Democratic candidate about police violence.
"If an officer ever stops you, always be polite and never ever run away," sings the GRAMMY winner, as Clinton nods along. "Promise momma you'll keep your hands inside. Is it a gun? Is it a knife? Is it a wallet? This is your life."
See more on how celebs are getting behind Hillary Clinton in the video below. 
It’s starting to seem like the ultimate sign of disrespect in the Kardashian family is tweeting out someone's phone number.
Just a few days after Rob Kardashian tweeted out sister Kylie Jenner’s digits to his 6.6 million followers, Rob’s fiancee, Blac Chyna, turned that trick right around on him, sharing his number on Twitter for all to see.
“To ensure your man is not texting no b****es, just tweet his number out,” Chyna announced in a Snapchat video after sending the tweet. “How’s that feel, Rob?”
EXCLUSIVE: Have Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna Split Up?
“It’s good,” Rob says with a laugh as his phone starts ringing for what is probably not the first time since Chyna’s tweet.
In another snap, Chyna went deeper into her reasoning, explaining, “All these females want to keep texting his phone ‘cause they had his number before, talking about, ‘You good? You and Chyna good?’ No, we good. We good. We straight.”
Guess we’ll take her word for it!
Rob tweeted out Kylie’s number earlier this week, after a misunderstanding about a baby shower that the reality star family had planned for the pair.
"Rob was told that the shower was still going on for him but Chyna couldn't make it, but he misunderstood the entire thing and overreacted," a source told ET. "The girls knew Chyna couldn't make it, and Chyna was cool with it, but Rob thought something was being done behind closed doors to make sure she couldn't be there."
The source also told ET this week that Rob and Chyna may not be in a good place after the recent drama.
"If you ask Rob, he'll say they're having issues. If you ask Chyna, she'll say they are not together," the source explained. "Their relationship is not in a good place right now but they are working on it."
The couple’s reality show, Rob & Chyna, airs Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on E!.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Rob Kardashian's Baby Shower Drama, What Led Him to Tweet Kylie Jenner's Phone Number
Kim Richards is a new grandma!
A source tells ET that Brooke Wiederhorn, daughter of the former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star, gave birth to a baby boy on Wednesday.
The adorable new addition to the family is the first child for Brooke and her husband, Thayer Wiederhorn, and is Richards' first grandchild.
A week before Brooke delivered her baby, she took to Instagram to celebrate her mom's 52nd birthday, where she gushed over how wonderful the reality star is going to be as a grandmother.
"Happy birthday to the most amazing mom in the world! I know you will be an even more amazing grandma!!" Brooke, 30, captioned a sweet mother-daughter snapshot. "I love you!"
Brooke, whose father, Monty Brinson, died after a long battle with cancer back in January, announced she were expecting  back in March.
"Happy Easter," she wrote alongside a photo of tiny baby clothes inside of an Easter basket. "Can't wait to meet our baby BOY!"
Brooke snapped a number of photos of her growing baby bump over the course of her pregnancy, which she shared to Instagram to document her journey.
PHOTOS: Celeb Pregnancy Styles
Two weeks ago, she bared her belly in this heartwarming black-and-white photo, which she captioned, "Mommy & Daddy Can't Wait To Meet You!"
Back in August, Richards took to Instagram to share a photo of her kissing her daughter's stomach, and marveled in the caption, "It's amazing how much we love him already."
Congrats to the happy couple and the brand new grandma!
Michelle Rodriguez has been with the Fast and Furious franchise since its inception, so when she says Charlize Theron plays the meanest bad guy the gang has ever seen in Fast 8, she knows what she's talking about.
"We're gonna go hard on this one," Rodriguez told ET's Deidre Behar, referring to the upcoming installment in the blockbuster series. "Charlize Theron is, I think, the most powerful villain this franchise has ever seen."
PHOTOS: The Kick-Ass Women of 'Fast and Furious'
Theron stars as the gun-toting baddie Cipher in the hotly anticipated action flick, and while not much is known about her character, the 41-year-old Oscar winner has proven time and again that she can hold her own as a weapon-wielding warrior woman -- most recently as Imperator Furiosa in the universally acclaimed Mad Max: Fury Road.
Rodriguez said she only got to work with Theron for a couple of days, but the experience solidified the 38-year-old actress' opinion that the Fast and Furious franchise needs more women.
"In order for me to be a part of the franchise in the future, they need to up the ante on the females," Rodriguez shared. "I mean, it's like a sausage factory in this thing."
"I just need some more feminine energy," she added. "We need some more women on the good side."
Before Fast 8 races into theaters on April 14, 2017, Rodriguez is starring in the new family drama Milton's Secret. The drama, adapted from the 2008 novel of the same name by Eckhart Tolle, tells the story of a young boy (William Ainscough) who is the target of bullying and falls into an emotional despair.
Rodriguez, who has been an outspoken advocate for anti-bullying campaigns, opened up about how why the film spoke to her, and how her outlook on life has changed since she was a teenager growing up in New Jersey.
"I'm more sensitive now because I've always been a very tomboyish… I just never gave a f**k about words," Rodriguez explained. "Now I understand that I have to respect words and words are powerful and they are dangerous and they hurt people."
Milton's Secret, which also stars Donald Sutherland, David Sutcliffe and Mia Kirshner, is in select theaters and available On Demand and Digital HD on Sept. 30.
Warning: Stop! If you haven’t watched Thursday’s episode of Grey’s Anatomy, do not proceed.
“Nothing’s as bad as broccoli.”
That’s what longtime Grey’s Anatomy doctor Alex Karev (Justin Chambers) kept reminding a young patient on Thursday’s episode, but in reality, his crisis was far worse.

While temporarily demoted from his role as pediatric surgeon by Grey Sloan Hospital Chief of Surgery Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson) to work at the Denny Duquette Clinic while DeLuca’s assault case moves forward, Alex’s off-again girlfriend Jo Wilson (Camilla Luddington) breaks the news that they are 100 percent through. Yikes!
Amid all of this, Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) continues to support Alex -- after all, he is “her person” -- even as it becomes increasingly difficult. Meredith and DeLuca have a chance encounter in the hospital elevator, with Meredith even going so far as to make veiled threats toward DeLuca about his lowly intern standing and his future at Grey Sloan. (Later in the episode, perhaps coupled with a guilty conscience, Meredith invites DeLuca to scrub in for a major surgery on one of Alex’s former patients.)
It’s Bailey, though, who gives Meredith the wisdom that may have opened her eyes on this entire unfortunate situation. “You are not Karev’s guardian angel,” Bailey tells Meredith. “You are blinded by this thing. Look, I know you want to help but there’s no need to go down with him.”

Here is a rundown of where all your favorite Grey’s couples and love triangles are at the end of Thursday’s episode:

April and Jackson. April (Sarah Drew) continues to have separation anxiety after being forced to stay at the hospital while Harriet goes home with Jackson (Jesse Williams). But it all starts to click when she sings a lullaby that lulls her baby girl to sleep. When Richard Webber (James Pickens Jr.) advises Jackson to “be persistent” about being there for April, Jackson suggests that April and Harriet move in with him. After some hesitation, April finally agrees. Could this mean the beginning of a reconciliation for the two?

Jo and Alex. Things are in shambles for the former couple. With Alex getting demoted at the hospital and dealing with his felony assault charge, he isn’t in the right mind to be in any type of relationship, much less one with Jo at the moment. After some pleading on Alex’s part in an attempt to win Jo back, she shuts him down cold. What the future holds for them, who knows?
What did you think of the latest episode of Grey’s Anatomy? Tell us your thoughts on Twitter by tweeting @etnow!

January Jones just got inked!
The Mad Men star showed off a new tattoo during her appearance on Wednesday's Late Night with Seth Meyers, revealing she got the body art in honor of her son, Xander.
"It's my birthday and his inside," she explained, pointing to two circles in the design and their corresponding numbers. "So I'm protecting."
The mother of one actually debuted her new ink on Instagram just a few days before.
PHOTOS: Stars Share Pics of Their Cute Kids
"We do fake tattoos on him all the time," Jones told Meyers, adding that the 5-year-old loves her new tattoo. "He was like, 'That's never gonna wear off!' He was very proud that I wanted that."
Xander isn't the only member of Jones' family in love with her new ink.
"My mom asked me to be put on Dr. Woo's wait list," she said of the celebrity tattoo artist. "He has like a five-year wait list."
But back to Jones' son -- the tot recently turned 5, and the actress couldn't help but celebrate with an adorable throwback pic.
See more in the video below.
Late MLB star Jose Fernandez was remembered at a memorial service by his grieving loved ones on Wednesday.
The event marked the first public appearance by Fernandez's pregnant girlfriend, Maria Arias, since the Miami Marlin's pitcher was killed in a boating accident off Miami Beach on Sunday. He was 24.
Arias, 24, was seen visibly grieving during the ceremony at St. Brendan's Catholic Church in Miami. She is reportedly four months pregnant with her due date set for February.
Prior to Fernandez's tragic death, he instagrammed a shot of Arias' growing belly bump, with the announcement celebrating his impending fatherhood.
"I'm so glad you came into my life," he wrote. "I'm ready for where this journey is going to take us together. #familyfirst."
Born in Cuba, Fernandez defected to the U.S. in 2008. In 2013, he was voted the National League Rookie of the Year, and placed third in Cy Young Award voting.
Consider this a case of friendly exes!
Liev Schreiber and Naomi Watts may have announced their separation on Monday, but that didn't stop the 48-year-old actor from wishing his ex a happy birthday.
Watts, who turned 48 on Wednesday, took to Instagram to share some birthday sentiments.
"Another birthday!! #eek But I think I'm younger than this #vintagestroller?? 🙏 Not quite sure what's happening here," she wrote alongside an old pic of herself as a baby. "#eek #70's #photoop #oldschool #raisedbyartists."
"Happy Birthday Sweetheart," Schreiber commented on the post.
The pair's clearly close relationship is consistent with the statement they released after their split.
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple. It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship," the Watts and Schreiber told ET in a joint statement on Monday.
"While we appreciate your curiosity and support, we ask the press to be mindful of our children and respect their right to privacy,” the former couple added.
Schreiber and Watts had been together since 2005, and share two sons -- 9-year-old Sasha and 7-year-old Sammy.
See more on their breakup in the video below.
Lady Gaga is ready to rock the Super Bowl!
The "Perfect Illusion" singer announced her headlining gig at the 2017 game's halftime show via Twitter on Thursday, writing, "It's not an illusion. The rumors are true. This year the SUPER BOWL goes GAGA! @nfl @FOXTV @pepsi #PERFECTILLUSION."#GAGASUPERBOWL."
On Wednesday, a source told ET that Mother Monster would be taking the stage, one year after absolutely bringing down the house with her unbelievable national anthem performance before Super Bowl 50.
The NFL also confirmed the news, by tweeting a video montage of gametime footage intercut with Gaga's latest single, captioned, "Looks like we aren’t the only ones excited about @LadyGaga performing at the #SB51 #PepsiHalftime show…"
We're so excited! Now, we just need Beyonce to sing “The Star-Spangled Banner" so it can be like last year in reverse. (The game is being played in Queen Bey’s hometown of Houston, Texas, so we’re holding out hope!)
While we still have a long while before Super Bowl LI airs on Fox on Feb. 5, 2017, you can tide yourself over by revisiting Gaga's show-stopping performance from earlier this year.
Watch the video below.
Kate Gosselin and her eight children are coming back to TLC for a brand new full season of their family docuseries, Kate Plus 8!
The 41-year-old matriarch confirmed that she, along with her 15-year-old twins Mady and Cara and 12-year-old sextuplets Alexis, Aaden, Hannah, Colin, Joel and Leah, will be once again allowing TLC cameras to capture their unique family dynamic.
Kate shared the news in a comment on Instagram posted on Sept. 17. Below a cute photo of son Aaden keeping their puppy, Nanuq, company in his crate, one fan wrote, "Wish you guys were still on television."
"We are! Full season of Kate Plus 8 returning in January! #Yay," Kate responded.
The series, which was previously known as Jon & Kate Plus 8 before her acrimonious split from ex-husband Jon Gosselin, followed Kate's day-to-day life as a single mother of eight rambunctious, excitable young kids. It will be interesting to see how much has changed since the show’s fifth season in 2010, as the sextuplets are almost teenagers!
The news of the show's renewal for a full season comes amid increased tensions between Kate and her ex, who have been at odds with each other since Kate's recent tell-all interview with People magazine in which she criticized Jon's parenting and detailed their tumultuous current relationship.
Jon sat down with ET following the release of the interview in August, where he defended himself against his ex-wife's claims and revealed that he hasn't "seen all eight of my kids together probably in three years." Check out the video below to hear more.
Fans are going ballistic over Zayn Malik’s fresh face! The 23-year-old "Pillowtalk" singer pop shared a beardless selfie on Instagram on Thursday, with no caption needed.
Though the pic snagged 1.3 million likes and counting, Malik’s freshly shaved face earned a bunch of different reactions.
"I still can't believe Zayn shaved his beard I feel like I've been catfished AGAIN," a shocked fan tweeted.
"His eyes and his eyelashes and his hair and I’m dead and this man ain’t real," read another tweet, while one fan was simply "shook" at the very thought of Malik switching up his look.
A user who goes by the Twitter handle @zaynilla, couldn't decide if she likes Malik clean shaven, with a beard, or maybe a little "stubble."
"He pulls everything so nicely," she wrote.
This isn't the first time Malik  swapped styles, and it's not just his facial hair that underwent a transformation. In February, Malik died his hair bright pink before going back to his signature dark locks.
Since leaving One Direction last year, the British pop star has been battling the celebrity life all by himself, which includes being under a microscope for more than his physical appearance.
Malik recently opened up about why he hates the "celebrity" title in an interview with Highsnobiety magazine.
"I think it's a dangerous road to go down," he shared. "Thinking of yourself as a celebrity, because then you somehow automatically think that label makes you superior to other people. Some people just want to hang around you because they know your name…I can see through that bulls**t a mile off."
 
MORE: Zayn Malik Reveals An Alien Told Him To Leave One Direction
When it comes to parenting, Jennifer Garner thinks it’s all about leading by example.
The 44-year-old actress opened up to Today Parents about raising her three kids, 10-year-old Violet, 7-year-old Seraphina and 4-year-old Samuel, explaining that she's working hard to make sure they grow up to be caring and empathetic.
"I give it all I can," Garner said about how seriously she takes her role as a mother.
"I don't think empathy is something you can drill in someone's head," she noted. "You have to have faith that while your kids can seem to be selfish and concerned only about the word 'mine' sometimes, overall, they are watching you really carefully, and if you care about other people, they will too."
"I try to be the best version of myself and to have faith that they're watching me as carefully when I do something right as they do when I roll through a stop sign," she added.
While the Alias star is working hard to teach her kids good skills for the real world, she also opened up about her concerns about how technology will impact her children, explaining that daughter Violet's school is implementing laptops and other devices in the classroom.
"Our daughter doesn’t have any of those things, and she's like, the only kid in the class who doesn't, apparently," Garner explained.  "So I found an old laptop this weekend for her, and I am kind of panicked about it. She's not on social media yet -- her school has a no social media policy until sixth grade -- but I know it's coming soon."
The actress also opened up about co-parenting with ex Ben Affleck in an interview with the Today show last month, saying that their lives still have to be all about their kids. 
"It has to be. You don't have a choice. It has to be," she said. "We are definitely a modern family. We're doing really well."
See more in the video below.
Jesse Williams is asking one police officer to take a hard look at student arrests.
The Grey's Anatomy star travels to Pinellas County, Florida, to investigate inequality in the school system for the upcoming EPIX series, America Divided.
"Pinellas is third in the state in disproportionately arresting black children," the 35-year-old actor explains in the video. "Three times as many students are arrested for disorderly conduct in Pinellas, than in Miami. And Miami has three times the amount of students. That's pretty alarming."
Watch the video above to see Williams have a frank discussion with Pinellas officer Mike Hawkins about the police force in his hometown, as well as the underrepresentation of African Americans in its ranks.
Meanwhile, Williams has been an outspoken advocate for justice and racial equality.
EXCLUSIVE: Jesse Williams Opens Up About Powerful BET Awards Speech, Anton Yelchin, and 'Grey's Anatomy'
The actor's powerful, politically-charged, Humanitarian Award acceptance speech at the BET Awards earned both praise and condemnation. Speaking to ET at the event, Williams said he'd hoped to deliver a message for those who need to  be heard.
"I'm here for all the incredible protestors, activists, attorneys, organizers that are sacrificing [an] incredibly great deal to be heard and get access to equal rights and justice in this country," he shared. "[The BET Awards] recognizing me is really recognizing them in my view, and I think that means that we're getting traction."
Watch the video below for more.
America Divided premieres on EPIX on Sept. 30 at 9/8c.
Kathy Griffin is moving on up from the D-list!
The 55-year-old comedian is selling her 8,000 square-foot gated home in Los Angeles' Hollywood Hills area.
EXCLUSIVE: Kathy Griffin on Sexism in Hollywood and Why She Supports Kesha and Hillary Clinton
You might think Griffin is becoming a realtor from her on-point sales pitch of her house. "The house has views for days and a bedroom you can walk around naked in with the doors open!" she gushed to ET, adding the abode has "the biggest kitchen I've ever seen and master bath with seating for 10. Tha's right, you can have meetings while taking a soak."
"And, finally, isn't it time you lived in a house with your very own elevator?" she jokingly concluded.
Well, sure, we want that!
In addition, the house, which is being listed by The Agency, has wrap-around observation decks accessible from every bedroom, with views of Studio City and the Hollywood sign; terrazzo floors in the front entry; stone accent walls; a large media room with a full kitchen, bathroom, fireplace, and French doors to the lower-level deck; and two spacious en-suite guest rooms. Not only that, but the master suite also has its own fireplace, designer bathroom, showroom closet and backyard access.
Not too shabby!
Equally impressive was Michael Phelps' meeting with Bill Murray! The Olympic gold medalist, a spokesperson for OMEGA, was the one doling out honors on Sept. 26, presenting the actor with an OMEGA Seamaster Aqua Terra "Ryder Cup" limited-edition timepiece. The swanky gift was in honor of the brand's second time as the Official Timekeeper of the Ryder Cup in Chaska, Minnesota.
Tyra Banks had a big role to play in San Francisco, California, where she rang the Nasdaq closing bell on Sept. 28 to commemorate the Nasdaq Entrepreneurial Center’s one-year anniversary in the Bay Area.
Hollywood seemed to be all about big honors this week. Harry Connick, Jr. helped Timothy Cardinal Dolan unveil the newest addition to Madison Square Garden’s Defining Moment, the Pope Francis Mass, in New York City on Sept. 26.
STAR SIGHTINGS: Sarah Paulson Gets Her Emmy Engraved, Jodie Sweetin Bonds With Daughter Zoie & More!
Melissa Joan Hart was also in the Big Apple. The Melissa & Joey star moderated a panel at the LiveHealth Online Summit Women Connect to Health on Sept. 28.
Plus, Bachelor in Paradise couple Jade Roper and Tanner Tolbert got cozy at WE tv's celebration of the return of Marriage Boot Camp Reality Stars. The duo shared a sweet moment during the party at Up&Down on Sept. 22.
There were also tons of fun events for stars and their kids. Devon Sawa and his wife, Dawni, brought their 2-year-old son Hudson and six-month-old daughter Scarlett, sporting Itzy Ritzy moccasins to the Step2 & Favored.by Present The 5th Annual Red Carpet Safety Awareness Event in Culver City, California, on Sept. 24.
PHOTOS: Stars Share Pics of Their Cute Kids
Nearby, Ian Ziering rang in the first day of fall with his wife, Erin, and their daughters, 5-year-old Mia and 3-year-old Penna, The Honest Companys intimate harvest festival at The London West Hollywood at Beverly Hills on Sept. 22. The fun event, which included pumpkin painting, candle decorating, and hay bale bowling, was hosted by The Honest Company’s first-ever ambassador, Olympic beach volleyball champion Kerri Walsh Jennings.
And famous teen even got to host a party! Dance Moms star Kalani Hilliker celebrated her Sweet 16 at Lucky Strike Live in Hollywood, California, on Sept. 22 with co-stars Nia Sioux, Kendall Vertes, and Brynn Rumfallo, as well as So You Think You Can Dance's Ava Cota and Bella and the Bulldogs' Brec Bassinger.
That same night, Benji Madden attended the Fender Hollywood office grand opening in L.A, which featured exclusive performances by the Cold War Kids and Bleached.
Meanwhile, Good Morning America’s Jesse Palmer hosted a Q&A with NFL pro Victor Cruz in NYC on Sept. 20, as Hublot was announcing their partnership as the official timekeeper of the wide receiver’s team, the New York Giants.
Click through the gallery below for even more recent star sightings.
Nate Parker is opening up about his past.
The 36-year-old actor, who wrote, directed, and stars in the much buzzed-about The Birth of a Nation, sits down with Anderson Cooper in a new interview for 60 Minutes to discuss the upcoming film and the recent headlines surrounding his 1999 rape case.
Parker was acquitted in a 2001 trial after an 18-year-old female classmate at Penn State accused him and then-roommate Jean Celestin (who co-wrote The Birth of a Nation) of sexual assault. Celestin was initially found guilty, but his conviction was later overturned on appeal.
"Do you feel guilty about anything that happened that night?" Cooper asks Parker in a preview clip from the interview.
"I don't feel guilty," Parker simply states, before admitting that he does believe his actions were "morally wrong." "As a Christian man, just being in that situation, yeah, sure," he says. "I'm 36 years old right now, and my faith is very important to me. You know, just looking back through that lens, I definitely feel like it's not the lens that I had when I was 19 years old."
In 2012, 13 years after the allegations, Parker's accuser committed suicide. "I had no idea. I had absolutely no idea. I found out in the news," he tells Cooper. "I was devastated. It was shocking. I couldn't believe it."
Still, Parker asserts he has nothing to apologize for. "I was falsely accused… I went to court… I was vindicated," he says. "I feel terrible that this woman isn't here… her family had to deal with that, but as I sit here, an apology is -- no."
Watch the clip below:
Meanwhile, Variety published on Thursday a guest column written by the accuser's sister,  in which she details her sister's experience throughout the rape trial, and calls for the removal of the rape scene in The Birth of a Nation.
"As her sister, the thing that pains me most of all is that in retelling the story of the Nat Turner slave revolt, they invented a rape scene. The rape of Turner's wife is used as a reason to justify Turner's rebellion," she writes. "This is fiction. I find it creepy and perverse that Parker and Celestin would put a fictional rape at the center of their film, and that Parker would portray himself as a hero avenging that rape."
"Given what happened to my sister, and how no one was held accountable for it, I find this invention self-serving and sinister, and I take it as a cruel insult to my sister's memory," she continues. "I think it's important for people to know Nat Turner's story. But people should know that Turner did not need rape to justify what he did. Parker and Celestin did not need to add that to Turner's story to make him more sympathetic."
Parker's 60 Minutes interview will air on Sunday, Oct. 2 on CBS.
See the trailer for The Birth of a Nation in the video below.
As much as Lorelei Gilmore loves the first snow of winter, Christmas isn't the most important day for Stars Hollow's biggest caffeine addict -- National Coffee Day is.
At least, that's what we assume, and Gilmore Girls seems to agree. A new poster was released on Thursday (that's National Coffee Day, natch) teasing the Nov. 25 premiere date of the Netflix revival series, and our hearts couldn't be more aflutter -- and it has nothing to do with that seventh cup of coffee we just drank.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Gilmore Girls' Star Milo Ventimiglia Spills on Jess' Return to Stars Hollow
The new teaser features Lorelei and her daughter, Rory, drinking cups of coffee under the title of the four-part event, Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life. We also may get a tattoo of the Twitter caption that accompanied the poster: "Drink it. Shoot it. Eat it. Snort it. Whatever form it's in, gimme. #NationalCoffeeDay."
Amen, Gilmores. Amen.
Though this mother-daughter duo is the pinnacle of caffeine addiction for us, plenty of other TV shows and real-life celebs shared their love of coffee on the drink's big day.
Shay Mitchell posed in teal lingerie for the occasion, you know, as you do.
iZombie's Rose McIver tweeted a photo of herself and co-stars Aly Michalka and David Anders holding up mugs at craft services. "National coffee day. Mother's milk. #BehindtheBrains," she wrote.
MORE: 'Gilmore Girls' Boss Hopes Fans Don't Spoil the 'Last Four Words'
Sarah Michelle Gellar has declared this day #SMG Day, to her love of coffee.
Trisha Yearwood also admitted that every day is National Coffee Day in her world.
REWIND: Candace Cameron Bure Reacts to Starbucks Red Holiday Cup Outrage
Actress-singer Bridget Mendler and her pal, Samantha Boscarino, showed off their dishware of choice: giant glass pitchers. We. Get. It.
Wil Wheaton was as humorous as ever when he realized what day it was:
And, listen, we know she's just a cartoon character, but Bob's Burgers' Tina Belcher is basically our spirit animal.
Now, go get your free cups of coffee. Happy caffeination, nation!
There's a lot of gold in the White House right now!
Four members of the "Final Five" U.S. Women's Gymnastics team -- Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Laurie Hernandez, and Madison Kocian, who all won big at the Rio Olympics this past summer -- paid a visit to Washington, D.C., on Thursday, where they attended a ceremony with President Barack Obama, and took over the White House Instagram account to keep us updated on their presidential routine.
"Hi @Instagram! The #FinalFive here, taking over the account as @TeamUSA visits the White House today for a ceremony with President Obama," they wrote. "We were so honored to represent the United States in #Rio2016 and we couldn't be more excited to be here! Stay tuned as we show you what’s up at the White House. @usagym #TeamUSA."
EXCLUSIVE: Laurie Hernandez Talks Sultry 'DWTS' Tango and Meeting Tori Kelly
And apparently just like gymnastics, the key to a successful White House visit is proper stretching!
"It's a little nervewracking to meet the President of the United States, so we're getting into the zone the only way we know how," they shared.
PHOTO: Simone Biles is Starring in Jake Miller's New Music Video
The team then followed up that post with a video of Hernandez showing off her Olympic skills, writing, "The White House East Wing is where many of the big events take place in the White House. @LaurieHernandez_ decided to take advantage of the dance floor in the State Dining Room.."
Meanwhile, Biles managed to snag a sweet picture with POTUS, as well as first lady Michelle Obama, which was shared with the caption, "What an incredible honor to meet President Obama. Simone presented him with a surfboard—a gift from all the @TeamUSA athletes."
Sadly missing from the festivities was teammate Gabby Douglas, who shared on Instagram yesterday that she had her wisdom teeth removed.
Feel better, Gabby! And congrats to the Final Five on their big day in Washington!
EXCLUSIVE: Final Five Gymnasts Reveal What's Next for Them After Rio
Ryan Eggold is gearing up for a new adventure.

Though plot specifics of Redemption will become clearer as The Blacklist progresses, Eggold hints that the new show references “classic espionage,” such as the 1975 Robert Redford film, Three Days to the Condor; the Mission: Impossible TV series of the ‘60s; and the current Jason Bourne franchise.
“It’s exciting to be at the beginning of something that you can help mow a little bit,” the Los Angeles native tells ET, adding that Redemption will be “a little lighter and more tongue-in-cheek,” and possibly more political than the mothership.
Even as Eggold prepares to lead his own ship, he’s focused on the new season and where Tom goes before he heads off to Redemption.

Eggold says it’s been particularly fulfilling stepping into “uncharted territory” on The Blacklist, with fatherhood being front and center for Tom.
“It’s the notion of responsibility, it’s the notion of self-restraint, it’s the notion of altruism and doing things for other people -- putting other people before yourself,” he says. “Having a child grows you up very quickly, and Tom is still a child in many ways -- he’s not really a grown man with that [level] of emotional intelligence [yet].”

“Ten years ago I probably wouldn't even get an audience,” Eggold says with a laugh. “I think I’m knocking on that door and I’m getting to the place where I’ll start having those opportunities and that’s exciting.”
The Blacklist airs Thursdays at 10 p.m. ET/PT on NBC. The Blacklist: Redemption premieres midseason on NBC.
Prince George and Princess Charlotte have finally joined their parents in the Canadian festivities!
The royal tots -- who have stayed behind with a nanny since arriving in Canada with their parents on Saturday -- attended a children's party for military families at Government House in Victoria, British Columbia on Thursday.
The family was adorably dressed as always, as Prince William, Prince George and Princess Charlotte were all color-coordinated in shades of blue, while Kate Middleton opted for a chic white number.
Prince George and Princess Charlotte seemed to be big fans of the balloons, before George ran off to play with some bubbles.
Charlotte, meanwhile, had fun playing with her mother, before making a new (furry) friend.
And while Kate was very attentive to both her children, it seems George and Charlotte just couldn't get enough of their dad.
Thursday’s party marked the young royal’s first official Canadian appearance after their arrival on Saturday. See their adorable grand entrance in the video below.
Niall Horan surprised his fans on Thursday, releasing his debut solo single, "This Town."
The romantic, bittersweet tune is definitely in line with what One Direction fans might expect from 23-year-old Horan, but in a new interview with Sirius XM's Spyder Harrison, the British singer admits releasing new music on his own has been "nerve-wracking."
"[It's] momentous," Horan says. "It kind of reminds me of when we [One Direction] released 'What Makes You Beautiful.' It's a big deal."
Horan reveals he wrote the track in March while backpacking through Southeast Asia. He says he didn't expect to release new music during One Direction's break, but found himself inspired.
"I wanted to kind of let people know that I was up to something, so they didn't think I'd just fallen off the face of the earth,” he explains. "That's the only song that's actually fully finished."
As for whether or not One Direction is breaking up for good, Horan definitely isn't closing the door.
"For the foreseeable, you know, we’re just taking a break and kind of doing our own thing," he shares. "But I definitely won’t rule that out because it's the best thing that One Direction has allowed us to do things like this, and I definitely won't rule it out. Our lives wouldn't be the same."
When Harrison joked about creating a hashtag "#nottheendofonedirection," Horan replies, "100 percent."
However, Horan is fully supportive of his bandmate Harry Styles' highly anticipated foray into acting. Styles, 22, is making his film debut in director Christopher Nolan's World War II film, Dunkirk, out next July.
"He seems to be good at it," Horan muses. "I don't think Christopher Nolan's gonna take on anyone that's not good at acting."
Lastly, Horan confirms he's totally single when it comes to his love life.
"Non-existent, currently," Horan cracks. "I've been busy sitting in studios, so I haven't had time for that."
Last December, Horan sparked romance rumors with Selena Gomez, when the two got cozy at Jenna Dewan-Tatum's 35th birthday bash in Los Angeles.
Watch below:
It appears Tom Brady has come between Matt Damon and his buddy, Ben Affleck.
The longtime friends teamed up to promote an Omaze campaign, which will benefit various philanthropic efforts, that encourages fans to donate $10 for a chance to, if chosen, hang out with the actors and the New England Patriots quarterback.
In a video posted to Brady's Facebook on Thursday, Damon and Affleck attempt to promote the contest, only to start arguing over who's the closer friend to the NFL pro. Affleck, 44, even tries to compare his and Brady's chins, which leads Damon to make a Batman v Superman joke.
"Let me tell you something, if your chin was anything like Tom's, that Batman movie of yours would have made about $4 billion," the 45-year-old star declares. "Because that's the only part of you that's recognizable, is that big, ugly chin. Tommy's a superhero."
MORE: Tom Brady and Ben Affleck -- Let's Break Down Their Bromance
"For the record, Matt Damon and Ben Affleck (listed in no particular order) do NOT pay me to be their friend," Brady, whom Affleck refers to as "T-Bone," quipped in a caption for the video.
In all seriousness, Brady is also quite fond of Affleck and Damon. In an interview with ET last year, the 39-year-old athlete said he was grateful to have the Boston natives in his circle, which also includes Mark Wahlberg. "[Those] guys in particular, I've gotten to know over the years and they're all friends," Brady said of the actors, who happen to be huge Patriots fans. "They believe in what we're doing, and it's great to have such great support from, you know, all those guys."
This got really weird, really fast.
While Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna discuss childhood crushes in a preview clip for an episode of their new reality show, Rob & Chyna, the 29-year-old Kardashian brother sort of admits to having crushed on Kim Kardashian West.... his sister.
"Her childhood crush is Ricky Martin," Rob shares of Chyna, who agrees by doing a little dance and belting out the singer's famous lyric, "Livin' la vida loca!"
EXCLUSIVE: Have Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna Split Up?
But things take a turn when it comes time for Chyna to reveal Rob's crushes.
"J.Lo," she says decisively, to which Rob replies, "That's pretty accurate."
"J.Lo AND Kim Kardashian," she adds.
"That is also pretty accurate," Rob confesses.
Watch the moment for yourself below.
EXCLUSIVE -- Inside Rob Kardashian's Baby Shower Drama, What Led Him to Tweet Kylie Jenner's Phone Number
Perhaps some things are better left unsaid....
Now, it is completely within the realm of possibility that Rob meant his reply to be in jest. Still, some people on Twitter could not get over the awkward exchange.
Meanwhile, a source told ET this week that Rob and Chyna may not be in a good place, after some family drama on Monday, where Rob tweeted that the Kardashians didn't invite Chyna to a baby shower they were planning and retaliated by tweeting sister Kylie Jenner's phone number.
"If you ask Rob, he'll say they're having issues. If you ask Chyna, she'll say they are not together," the source said. "Their relationship is not in a good place right now but they are working on it."
 Rob & Chyna airs Sundays at 9 p.m. on E!
Kylie Jenner has some serious skills in the kitchen!
The 19-year-old reality star cooked her man, Tyga, a full-on feast on Thursday, documenting the entire thing on Snapchat.
It must have been a special occasion, because Jenner went all out, making chicken wings, macaroni and cheese, potato chips, ribs and  candied yams.
Jenner, clearly proud of her work, couldn't wait to present Tyga with the feast. "OK, it's a lot of food," she said as she laid down his plate.
"Yeah, that's right," Jenner said in another snap, which she captioned, "to the bone."
The couple is clearly enjoying being at home after a busy week in New York for Fashion Week.
Check out some of their Big Apple escapades in the video below. 
Beyonce's commercial for the Fall 2016 collection of her athleisure line, Ivy Park, looks more like a sequel to Lemonade.
Similar to the wildly popular visual album, Queen Bey poetically speaks over scenes of herself. "I stretch my body out like the horizon," she says. "I teach my body every day that it can go even further."
Husband Jay Z and daughter Blue Ivy are also featured in what appears to be footage taken from home videos. Blue is seen swinging with her mother in one scene, and in another, she's holding hands with her famous father. "When I'm about to give up, I picture that one person I love more than anyone," Beyonce continues. "I picture myself wherever they are in the world, and I picture myself running towards them."
She concludes, "I make it to the end, and I find love."
Fans may forget they're watching a commercial for workout clothes, but the video is, in fact, promoting Ivy Park's new collection, which is available online as well as Topshop, Nordstrom, Hudson Bay, Net-A-Porter and Zalando.
In a rare interview with ELLE magazine earlier this year, Beyonce revealed the mission behind the athleisure line. "To me, power is making things happen without asking for permission," she said. "It's affecting the way people perceive themselves and the world."
"It's really about changing the conversation. It's not about perfection. It's about purpose. We have to care about our bodies and what we put in them," she added. "Women have to take the time to focus on our mental health -- take time for self, for the spiritual, without feeling guilty or selfish. The world will see you the way you see you, and treat you the way you treat yourself."
Congratulations are in order for Annaleigh Ashford!
The Broadway star and her husband, Joe Tapper, welcomed a son named Jack Clark on Sept. 8, 2016, ET confirms.
While Jack is their first child, the couple, who married in 2013, already had a little practice at parenting with their adorable dog, Gracie.
And even though the pair kept pretty quiet about the pregnancy, the Tony-winning actress couldn't help but show off her growing baby bump while promoting the upcoming TV version of The Rocky Horror Picture Show last month. 
The Rocky Horror Picture Show premieres Sept. 20 on FOX.
While Ashford just welcomed her bundle of joy, Janet Jackson is preparing for her own.
The 50-year-old singer recently debuted her burgeoning belly in a rare public appearance in London.
See more in the video below.
Is a resolution between Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt coming soon?
A source close to the Pitt-Jolie child custody dispute tells ET that camps for the A-list stars have recently been having "productive discussions."
"The fact that things have quieted down is a good sign for everyone," the source notes.
According to the source, 52-year-old Pitt and 41-year-old Jolie had actually been estranged for months before news of the shocking split broke last week.
"She wanted a worldly life, and he wanted a more stable environment for the family," the source says.
A difference of priorities is one reason for the former couple's breakup, our source previously told ET, saying that Jolie has increasingly moved away from Hollywood to focus on her activities as UNHCR Special Envoy, while Pitt is still very much interested in making films.
"Every marriage has priorities and they have been able to navigate them up until now," the source said. "Brad has different priorities. He's a leading actor with movies coming out. She has her things she wants to do and no one is saying that’s wrong."
"Her global ambitions are part of the current problem -- I don't think anyone wants their kids all over the place," the source added.
The Allied star wants to resolve his and Jolie's issues "amicably and privately," and hopes to see his six children soon, according to the source. Pitt is currently in Los Angeles, the source adds, but keeping a low profile.
"He's being careful," the source said. "He's leaning on friends for support. This isn't a happy time for anyone."
Meanwhile, Jolie is being advised by her closest female friends, Lady Arminka Helic and Chloe Dalton, another source tells ET. According to the source close to the Pitt-Jolie situation, the two women  have been "fueling the actress' aggressive approach against Pitt" from the beginning.
"Angelina is very close to Arminka and Chloe, and really has left her Hollywood circle in recent years to focus on politics and human rights," the source said, adding that the actress first met Helic through her UN work a few years ago. "Angelina respects the two of them completely and doesn't make any decisions without them."
Jolie has asked for physical custody of their children in her divorce filing -- 15-year-old Maddox, 10-year-old Shiloh, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox. Our source tells ET, however, that Pitt wants to be with his kids and have some custody.
Find out more about Jolie's influential friends in the video below:
When it comes to his marriage to Jennifer Aniston, Justin Theroux is all in.
The Girl on a Train star opens up to ELLE magazine about his relationship with the 47-year-old actress, and is quite candid about his views on marriage.
When asked if he believes in monogamy, the 45-year-old actor responds, "Obviously. I'm married."
"I think it's at what age you make that commitment," Theroux, who got married a few weeks shy of his 44th birthday, elaborates. "When you hear about people in the '50s getting married at 20, you're like, 'What were they thinking?'"
Theroux adds that his grandparents were together for over 50 years and shares their secret. "My grandfather used to write one sentence every day in his journal: 'I love Anne more than ever today,'" he says. "I think that was his meditation -- keeping him in his marriage, and also his appreciation for it. It was very touching."
Aniston and Theroux have only been married a little over a year, but he says there's already been lessons learned. "I think it taught me to settle a little bit," he explains. "It does have a calming effect."
That being said, Theroux does admit that being one-half of a celebrity couple does have its disadvantages. "It's a luxury problem, but I would love to walk around New York with my wife," he says. "Take her to Washington Square Park."
As for why he's never even tried to stroll through the park with Aniston, he quips, "It would turn into a sh** show. It would be not fun."
EXCLUSIVE: Courteney Cox on Jennifer Aniston Being Dragged Into Brangelina Split Drama -- 'It's Not About Her'
The couple did, however, attempt a shopping trip on Wednesday in NYC's Soho neighborhood, just days after he revealed to ET the secret to his happy marriage. "We appreciate each other's sense of humor, we respect one another and we get along," he shared. "I know it sounds simple but it's true!"
Also in ELLE, Theroux admits that the photos that went viral of him jogging in revealing sweatpants on set of The Leftovers in 2014 were "embarrassing" for him.  "It's like having someone yank your shorts down in public. It doesn't feel great. Anyone who has an unflattering picture taken of them would probably say, 'Join the club,'" he says. "It has the appearance of a compliment, but it's more mortifying than anything else."
Kim and Kourtney Kardashian really outdid themselves on Thursday, when the fashionable sisters showed a whole lot of skin at the Balmain Spring/Summer 2017 show.
Kim, 35, sported a floor-length, cut-out jumpsuit at the highly anticipated Paris Fashion Week show, a bold look that pretty much guaranteed all eyes were on her.
Let's take a closer look.
In a Snapchat after the show, the mother of two shared that Balmain designer Olivier Rousteing took the unique piece specifically off the runway just for her.
And she also got candid about her "challenge of the day."
"Underwear or no underwear?" she said on Snapchat, flaunting her slimmed-down figure.
Not to be outdone by her younger sister, 37-year-old Kourtney showed off her killer legs in a show-stopping gold pantsless look.
The pair was seated next to their mother, Kris Jenner, at the show -- who herself looked fierce in a pair of thigh-high leather boots -- as well as former editor-in-chief of Vogue Paris, Carine Roitfeld.
The Kardashian family has been notably close to 30-year-old Rousteing for years. Kim and her husband, Kanye West, starred in a steamy Balmain campaign in 2014, and even their 3-year-old daughter, North, is a big fan.
At this year's Met Gala in May, both Kim and Kanye rocked matching Balmain outfits.
It's good to see Kim brush off her scary incident on Thursday, when known prankster Vitalii Sediuk attempted to attack the reality star from behind as she was exiting a black car and making her way into L'Avenue restaurant in Paris. Sediuk is the same man who went after Gigi Hadid in Milan, Italy, just last week, wrapping his arms around her and lifting her up.
Watch Kim's security take Sediuk down in the video below:
Mila Kunis looks ready to party ...and then some!
The 33-year-old pregnant actress visited a party store on Wednesday afternoon, and didn't try to hide her growing baby bump as she stepped out wearing a fitted blue T-shirt and black leggings.
EXCLUSIVE: Ashton Kutcher Says He Wants to 'Protect' Daughter Wyatt From Show Business -- 'It Is My Job'
Kunis is clearly stocking up on supplies just days ahead of daughter Wyatt's second birthday on Oct. 1.
While promoting Bad Moms earlier this year, Kunis told ET that she and husband Ashton Kutcher have learned to appreciate the little victories in parenting. "Every night that we put Wyatt down, we high-five each other, and we're like, 'We did it! We kept her alive!'" she quipped. "And we're still in love. You high-five when you still like each other and you still like your kid at the end of the night."
Kunis jokingly added, "Because sometimes they're the devil. They're the devil!"


Ariel Winter has learned a lot thanks to her early start in Hollywood.
The 18-year-old actress was just 11 years old when she snagged a starring role in the NBC hit Modern Family, and in a new interview, says she's become used to facing haters.
"At this stage, you get sort of jaded after a certain period of time," she admits to Rogue magazine, via ET Canada. "I feel like I’ve been in the industry for so long that I have gotten to the point where people's comments and the exposure doesn't bother me as much. It still bothers people when you get negative feedback for something, but it doesn't hit me as hard as it would somebody just entering the industry."
Winter shared some of the super sexy pics from the accompanying photoshoot on her Instagram on Thursday, including this Rihanna-inspired snap.
"B**ch better have my money," she captioned the photo.
Winter makes no apologies when it comes to her sometimes racy Instagram posts.
"It's complete sexism," she says about the judgment she receives. "It's really degrading, annoying and sad that this is what the media puts out, it's disgusting to me."
However, Winter says it's worth it when she hears how she's inspired other young women to embrace themselves.
"It's somewhat life-changing in your mind when you walk down the street and somebody recognizes you as 'that girl from TV' or 'Alex, the girl with the glasses,' but it's different than when someone comes up to you and says, 'Ariel Winter I love the things you say online' or 'I really love your character, it's inspired me so much,'" she says. "Those are the things that really impact me that I love about the exposure I get."
ET spoke to Winter's Modern Family co-star, 17-year-old Nolan Gould, at the Emmys earlier this month, and he told us he couldn't be prouder of Winter's outspoken nature.
"Ariel has become kind of like a role model for this younger generation," Gould said. "I wish I could do something like that! I don't know what I could do ... just don't be like me, guys. Follow Ariel. She's doing great things."
When ET caught up with Winter last month, she went on the offensive.
"Everybody is so hyped up on the fact that I post photos where my butt's out. It's a butt. Everyone has a butt," she told ET exclusively. "I don't think it's crazy."
"It's like, 'Let me live! I'm enjoying my life, you're enjoying your life, you should be posting your butt if you like it, too!'" she added.
Watch below:
Kim Kardashian is "so over" talking about Taylor Swift.
The 35-year-old reality star covers Billboard magazine's TV issue and reluctantly addresses, once again, the ongoing feud between the "Shake It Off" singer and her husband, Kanye West. "Ugh, do we really have to talk about Taylor Swift?" she says with a laugh. "I’m so over it."
In June, Kim claimed that Taylor "totally approved" of Kanye's line about her in his "Famous" song, and a month later Snapchatted a phone conversation between the musicians discussing the controversial track. Swift, however, noted in an Instagram message about the incident, posted in July, that Kanye never told her he was going to use the phrase "that b**ch" when referencing her.
"If it were up to Kanye, it all would probably never have come out. He can handle it, he has no hard feelings," Kim explains. "He doesn’t even really care. I just wanted to protect my husband. I saw him getting a lot of sh**."
The mother of two adds, "It wasn’t even about a look or anything, or to have this feud -- it was like, 'OK, here’s the truth.' Done. Let's all move on. I feel like I don't want to talk about her anymore."
In an earlier interview with Wonderland magazine, Kim seemed to downplay the ongoing squabble. "I never publicly talk bad about people. I still don't feel like I have," she insisted. "I'm being honest. I'm a fan. I like [Taylor's] music. There was no shade."
While Kim is tired of talking about Taylor, she is open to chatting how she came to be one of the most famous  reality stars in the world. Kim says she wanted to be on TV after watching the first season of MTV's The Real World while in grade school. "I was like, 'Oh, my God, that’s what I want to do,'" she recalls.
She later befriended Simple Life's Paris Hilton, and jokes that she wasn't as big of a partyer as her pal. "I just thank God for my rhinestone Sidekick," Kim quips. "I would sit there checking MySpace all the time. They probably thought I was so boring."
When ET spoke with Kim back when she had just graduated 8th grade, she was very ready for the limelight. "Does everyone get a tape of this?" the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star asked. "I hope you do so you can see me when I'm famous and remember me as this beautiful little girl!"


















The apple clearly doesn't fall far from the tree.
Reese Witherspoon shared a cute selfie with her 17-year-old daughter, Ava, on Wednesday, and to say the mother-daughter duo look strikingly similar is an understatement.
"Family in #Dallas #DraperJamesDallas," Witherspoon captioned the pic, promoting her lifestyle brand, Draper James.
PICS: She Gets It From Her Mama! Celebrity Mother/Daughter Doppelgangers
... Seriously, anyone else getting flashback vibes of a young Reese in Cruel Intentions?!
Witherspoon, 40, has been spending plenty of quality time with her gorgeous family lately. On Wednesday, she shared a sweet photo of her and her husband, Jim Toth, celebrating their son Tennessee's fourth birthday alongside the actress' two kids with her ex, Ryan Phillippe -- Ava and 12-year-old Deacon.
Last Thursday, Ava made her solo red carpet debut at a private Chanel-hosted dinner celebrating the brand's °5 L'EAU fragrance launch in West Hollywood, California. The teenager mingled with Lily-Rose Depp -- the 17-year-old daughter of Johnny Depp and Vanessa Paradis -- at the A-list party, with Kristen Stewart, Pharrell Williams, and Mila Jovovich also in attendance.
ET spoke with Witherspoon last November at the Glamour Women of the Year Awards, when she talked about what she tells Ava is the best part of being a woman.
"I mean, really, we are so lucky to be women in this country, that we have freedoms that other women in other countries do not have," Witherspoon told ET. "We have a right to education. We have a lot of rights about our healthcare. It's really important that my daughter understands, and other people's daughters understand, that it's important how we pick our political candidates to preserve those rights and push ourselves further in the world by making sure we have representation."
Watch below:
Britney Spears has lived and learned.
The 34-year-old pop princess -- who performed for the first time in five years in London, England, on Tuesday night -- admitted to Lorraine Kelly on Britain's ITV that she doesn't look back fondly on her 20s.
"I like my 30s way more than my 20s," she said. "My 20s were horrible! [Being] in my teens was fun, but I like my 30s."
Spears -- who turned 30 in 2012 -- faced a series of ups and downs in her 20s. In 2004, she married her childhood friend Jason Alexander in Las Vegas, only to have the marriage annulled 55 hours later. That same year, she also wed her backup dancer, Kevin Federline, who she has two sons with, and divorced him in 2007. After Spears' brief stint in rehab, her father James Spears and attorney Andrew Wallet were granted a permanent conservatorship in 2008, which gave them complete control of her assets.
"My 30s are great," Spears continued. "You know who you really are."
As for her relationship status, the "Make Me" singer -- who broke up with Charlie Ebersol in June 2015 -- seems content not being in a relationship for now. "It's okay to be single!" she insisted. "I'm in a really good place right now. I'm loving myself every day and learning who I am. It's awakening, it's cool."
While Spears is embracing her age, she isn't too excited about how fast her kids, Sean Preston, 11, and Jayden James, 10, are growing up. "It's a little strange because I'm nervous," she confided. "I know 12 and 13 and 14 and 15, is going to be really scary and I'm going to be like, 'Mom, please come to the house and help me out here!' "
She added, "But right now it's a great age. They're still babies!
During an interview with The Cooper Lawrence Show at 106.1 BLI last month, Spears also admitted that she didn't want her sons to become famous. "I think the magnitude of it and the fame thing, I don't think they've really comprehended what that would even be like," she explained. "Hopefully they never will, because it's kind of much."
Things got very sweet on Thursday when Miley Cyrus filled in for Ellen DeGeneres. In her first-ever celebrity interview, The Voice coach sat down with actress Sarah Jessica Parker to talk about her return to TV in the upcoming HBO series Divorce.
“I’m so excited to see you come back to TV, now I have something to watch!” Cyrus gushed, going on to compliment Parker’s family dynamic with husband Matthew Broderick. “You have such a great relationship and such a great family, it seems. I just love when you see someone who’s had their 20th anniversary, or it’s coming up. It’s incredible because sometimes I feel like even I lose that hope of people when you’re strong together, you can last. My parents have a very unique relationship so I took the show differently.”
Both Miley’s father, Billy Ray Cyrus, and her mother, Tish Cyrus, have filed for divorce at different times, but appear to be mending their relationship behind the scenes since Tish’s most recent 2013 filing.
Parker thanked the pop star for her compliments, saying of her 19-year marriage, “I am in a long marriage and a really happy one, and we have a home that we find really satisfying.”
Broderick and Parker married in 1997 and share son James, 13, and twin daughters, Marion and Tabitha, both 7.  As for Cyrus’ love life, over the last year she has rekindled her romance with her former fiancé, Liam Hemsworth. While the two haven’t officially confirmed they are engaged again, Cyrus has no problem rocking the Neil Lane  sparkler he gave her back in 2012.
While filling in for DeGeneres, the songstress also got to interview Broadway star Idina Menzel, who recently got engaged to Aaron Lohr. But it was her 7-year-old son Walker, who dominated the conversation. DeGeneres had specifically asked Cyrus to question Menzel about her son’s preference when it came to Frozen vs. Finding Dory.
“Oh totally, Finding Dory, and it’s not because I’m on Ellen’s show,” Menzel said of the comedian who voices the titular character. “He hates Frozen. But everybody’s sick of it aren’t they? He hates Mommy’s singing. He loves Finding Dory, Finding Nemo.”
But despite “hating” the animated princess tale, Menzel’s son does use his connection to Queen Elsa to his advantage.
“He will, on occasion, be caught trying to flirt with a young Kindergartener and goes up to her – I overheard this while I was volunteering in the class one day – and he was like, ‘Hey, want my mom’s autograph? She’s Elsa from Frozen,’” the singer said laughing.
Cyrus was very interested to learn if Elsa’s sexuality would be explored in the film’s sequel. Many have speculated that Queen Elsa is, in fact, a lesbian. Though Menzel wouldn’t dare betray the trust of Disney and claimed that she didn’t know, she did say, “I, Idina Menzel, am all for it!”
For more on Menzel’s new engagement, watch the video below!
Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna's relationship appears to be on the mend after a source told ET that the chances of the two reconciling was "pretty high."
On Wednesday night, the 29-year-old reality star shared several videos of him in bed with his pregnant fiancee. "She ain't moving for the camera," he captioned the video that he hoped would show his daughter-to-be kicking inside Chyna's stomach.
Rob's Snapchat story comes after a dramatic week. On Monday night, he claimed his famous family didn't invite Chyna to a baby shower they were planning and then tweeted out his sister Kylie Jenner's phone number. Then on Wednesday, a source told ET that he and Chyna were "not in a good place" in their relationship.
"If you ask Rob, he'll say they're having issues. If you ask Chyna, she'll say they are not together," the source said. "Their relationship is not in a good place right now but they are working on it."
According to the source, Rob is "in a bad place right now" due to the stress of Chyna, 28, being pregnant, as well as filming their new E! reality show, Rob & Chyna. Rob also apparently "wasn't ready" to be back in the spotlight -- after previously being away from Keeping Up With the Kardashians for two years -- but felt pressured to work again and "get his life together"once Chyna got pregnant.
For now, however, it looks like the two are getting along.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Rob Kardashian's Baby Shower Drama, What Led Him to Tweet Kylie Jenner's Phone Number
Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux looked carefree and casual as they stepped out in NYC on Wednesday to go furniture shopping.
The pair were spotted in the Soho neighborhood of Manhattan wearing matching white shirts and shades while browsing at the John Derian Company boutique.
Jen rocked bell-bottom jeans with heels while her hubby wore dark wash jeans and a black coat. The couple looked calm despite the many photographers and fans who have been surrounding them, snapping pictures in the wake of Aniston’s ex-husband Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie’s divorce.
Both Theroux and Aniston’s bestie Courteney Cox have publicly spoken out to defend the actress after the news of her ex-husband’s divorce went public earlier this month.
“It’s not about her,” Cox recently told ET, while Theroux mirrored the sentiment in a recent interview with Business Insider.
Calling it “nonsense” that Aniston’s name was being dragged into the divorce news, Theroux also had some sympathy for the A-list family, telling Business Insider, “As a child of divorce, all I can say is that's terrible news for those children and that's all you can really say. It's boring to sort of comment on anything else. People are having a bad time, that's horrible."
For more on Theroux’s reaction to the Brangelina split, watch the video below!
The perfect fall outfit! Taylor Swift stepped out in NYC on Wednesday looking casual and comfy. The “Welcome to New York” singer, 26, sported a RAILS black, white, and red plaid button-up top with black jeans.
She paired the laidback look with some black loafers and a side satchel. Swift didn’t appear to put a lot of product in her blonde bob, letting her natural waves flow freely.
She was spotted leaving her Tribeca apartment and heading into a black car for a day out.
The GRAMMY winner has been spending lots of time in NYC recently. Earlier this month, she stepped out for her first public event since her split from actor Tom Hiddleston, attending pal Gigi Hadid’s NYFW collaboration with designer Tommy Hilifiger.
And this past Tuesday, she went out to dinner with celeb pals Cara Delevingne, Lorde, Suki Waterhouse, and Jack Antonoff at The Waverly Inn in Manhattan.
Hadid recently confirmed that her bestie is, in fact, working on some new music.
MORE: Tom Hiddleston's Pal Benedict Cumberbatch Refuses to Ask Him About Taylor Swift: 'That Door Is Closed'
"She's obviously such a great friend, and you know she is starting to go back to work in the studio again, and really made time to be here for me, and I am so grateful for that," the supermodel told ET at her NYFW event.
For more on Tay’s upcoming album, watch the exclusive video below!
They’re “Gone With the Wind fabulous”! On Wednesday night, Queen of Katwe co-stars Lupita Nyong’o and David Oyelowo appeared on Watch What Happens Live where they proved they are truly worthy of their acting awards and critical acclaim.
The two had a bit of fun showing off their impressions of some of the most famous Real Housewives stars as Bravo host Andy Cohen cheered them on.They were each given the same reality star's line to read and Cohen would judge their performances, choosing a winner each time.
The pair imitated Real Housewives of Atlanta star Kenya Moore, using her signature catchphrase, “I’m Gone With the Wind fabulous!”
Oyelowo, who first made a name for himself playing Martin Luther King Jr. in 2014’s Selma, also embodied Vanderpump Rules star Kristen Doute.
“I’ve really been focusing on my T-shirt line, and I’ve been working on therapy to not act like a psycho,” Oyelowo mocked in a perfect valley girl voice.
Oscar winner Nyong’o also had some fun with Real Housewives of New York City star Countess Luann de Lesseps, screaming, “We got the yacht! We got the yacht!”
MORE: Lupita Nyong'o Stuns During Press Tour for 'Queen of Katwe'
But fun and games aside, Nyong’o remained ever the professional when a caller asked her about her 12 Years a Slave co-star Brad Pitt’s divorce from Angelina Jolie.
“I don’t know how to comment about people’s private lives. I value my private life, and I would like to honor theirs,” she respectfully replied.
To see Nyong’o rap, watch the clip below!
Kim Zolciak’s tired of the rumors surrounding her marriage to Kroy Biermann. The pair tied the knot in 2011 and share four kids together plus Kim’s two daughters from a previous relationship, but lately there has been speculation about the status of their marriage after Kroy was cut from the Buffalo Bills.
On Wednesday, Kim took to Snapchat to clear things up, both praising her man and calling out the haters.
“I swear I’m like married to the king. He cleaned the whole house this morning and he cleaned the waterfall out front,” she gushed in several clips. “I swear he’s like the most incredible human that’s ever walked this planet.”
Later she turned the camera on the football star, who was eating dinner at home with their big family.
“We’re having dinner together,” the mother of six explained. “These f**king idiots that write s**t in the tabloids all for clicks on your website. You say that Kroy and I are at war because he’s home with me so much. News flash, a**holes, he’s played for the Falcons for 8 years so he’s always been fucking home.
The Don’t Be Tardy star continued her rant against the false allegations, saying, “On a more serious note, I don’t appreciate people talking s**t especially s**t that’s not true because I have the most incredible husband in the whole world.”
She then teased Kroy, asking, “Hey, can I trap you with baby no. 7?”
“Please,” he replied, laughing.
Kroy was cut from the Bills just two weeks after signing with the team. He is currently trying out for other NFL teams.
For more on his tough cut, watch the video below!
Naomi Watts may have just announced her split from longtime partner Liev Schreiber, but that didn’t stop her from celebrating her birthday in the best way possible – with an entire tray of cake pops.
The 48-year-old actress took to Instagram on Wednesday to show off her tasty treats.
“Why eat one, when you can have them all? #cantstopme #mybirthday #cakepops #strangeinvention #sorrynotsorry @samtaylorjohnson #gypsy #bts,” she captioned the selfie with her birthday surprise.
Watts is currently filming her upcoming Netflix series, Gypsy, in NYC. In the show, she plays therapist Jean Holloway, who becomes a little too hands-on with her patients.
Earlier this week, Watts and Schreiber exclusively revealed to ET that they were separating after 11 years together. Though the pair never married, they share sons Alexander “Sasha” Pete, 9, and Samuel “Sammy” Kai, 7.
MORE: Naomi Watts Steps Out in New York City Following Liev Schreiber Split
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple. It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship," the couple told ET in a joint statement. "While we appreciate your curiosity and support, we ask the press to be mindful of our children and respect their right to privacy."
For more on the split, watch the video below.
Miley Cyrus got her first taste of hosting a daytime talk show when she stepped in to cover for Ellen DeGeneres this week, and the controversial singer worked hard to ease viewers into the change.
"I know all of you came to see Ellen so I’m gonna do my best to make you very happy," Cyrus, 23, said at the start of the show after dancing out onto the stage in a pitch-perfect impression of DeGeneres' typically enthusiastic entrance. "I’m dressed like her, I smell like her, [and] just before I came out here I actually kissed a girl!"
DeGeneres had to take the day off after coming down with an illness, but her replacement couldn't have been more excited for the opportunity to host the comedian's popular program.
"Thank you guys for making me feel so welcome," Cyrus told the cheering crowd. "I’ll admit I’m a little bit nervous because I’ve never hosted a show with my clothes on before so this is so weird!"
The "Wrecking Ball" singer had to address the reason behind DeGeneres' absence, sharing, "Don’t worry you guys Ellen will be fine, but she just isn’t feeling well."
"I gave her a bunch of Molly to make her feel better," Cyrus joked. "It’s working."
The outspoken pop star went on to interview Sarah Jessica Parker and Idina Menzel in the fun episode which airs Thursday. Check here for local listings.
Cyrus has been hitting the interview circuit herself in recent weeks after joining Adam Levine, Blake Shelton and Alicia Keys as a coach on NBC's The Voice. Check out the video below for a look at Cyrus' boisterous debut on The Voice's season 11 premiere.
Years before Ryan Guzman was starring alongside Piper Perabo in the crime drama Notorious, she had already won his heart.
The 29-year-old actor sat down with ET's Katie Krause recently, where he admitted that he had a bit of a crush on his co-star when he was a teenager.
"Coyote Ugly was the one," Guzman said, recalling Perabo's 2000 musical comedy that cemented his affection for the star. "I remember watching that… I think everybody had a crush on her."
"I have a crush on you, Pipes!" the actor confessed.
In Notorious, Guzman plays a production assistant to a news producer (played by Perabo) who is a master at manipulating the media cycle. In real life, Guzman himself has had to spin and shut down a few tabloid stories of his own -- including a rumored romance with his The Boy Next Door co-star Jennifer Lopez.
"[There were] just assumptions that we were dating, you know, talking, blah, blah, blah," Guzman recounted. "She's just a friend of mine and I truly value her friendship."
That doesn't mean that the two didn't have some pretty hot and heavy scenes to shoot together while filming the 2015 erotic thriller. However, J.Lo doesn't top his list when it comes to best co-star kisser.
"Well [Lopez] marked me as her No. 2 'best kisser,' so she's getting No. 2," Guzman joked.
As for the co-star that tops his list? The young actor actually let a little spoiler slip, naming his Notorious co-star, Aimee Teegarden.
"Aimee's up there, I think," Guzman said, contemplating the list of women he's kissed on screen.
When asked to confirm that his character actually kisses Teegarden's character as some point in the show’s future, Guzman admitted, "There's a kiss in there, for sure."
Notorious airs Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Warning: Spoilers ahead from Wednesday’s premiere of Criminal Minds.
If you were wondering how Criminal Minds would address Thomas Gibson’s eventual exit, there certainly wasn’t any hint of it in the season 12 premiere.

It was business as usual, with Gibson’s character, BAU Unit Chief Aaron Hotchner, leading the team like it was an ordinary day at the office and without any foreshadowing of what is to come.
Ironically, in one of the premiere’s final scenes, Hotchner welcomes Adam Rodriguez’s FBI Fugitive Task Force Agent Luke Alvez to the BAU team as a full-time member -- filling the void left by Shemar Moore, who departed the show last season.

Gibson was fired from Criminal Minds in August after he allegedly kicked writer-producer Virgil Williams during an on-set altercation. The 54-year-old actor, who has been with the crime drama since its 2005 debut, claimed in a September interview that he actually “tapped” Williams on the leg as he was “coming towards” him.
"We were shooting a scene late one night when I went to Virgil and told him there was a line that I thought contradicted an earlier line," Gibson told People. "He said, 'Sorry, it's necessary, and I absolutely have to have it.'"
"As he brushed past me, my foot came up and tapped him on the leg," he continued. "If I hadn't moved, he would have run into me. We had some choice words, for which I apologized the next day, and that was it. It was over. We shot the scene, I went home -- and I never got to go back."

Gibson also expressed his unhappiness over how the show is handling his exit this season. ABC Studios and CBS Television Studios  said in a joint statement announcing Gibson’s firing in August that “creative details for how the character’s exit will be addressed in the show” would come “at a later date.”
“It seems like they’re trying to erase me from the show. That hurts,” he said. “But I’m using this time to be with my kids, and I look forward to what’s next.”

It looks like Frances Bean Cobain's brief marriage to musician Isaiah Silva is going to cost her a rather hefty sum.
The 24-year-old daughter of late rock star Kurt Cobain has been ordered to pay her estranged husband over $48,000 while they settle their divorce, according to court documents obtained by ET.
A judge with the Los Angeles Superior Court finalized an agreement between the two parties, obligating Cobain to pay Silva $12,000 a month for the next four months as temporary spousal support. She will also have to pay $15,000 to cover his attorney fees.
As for Silva, he was ordered to vacate the former couple's shared Los Angeles residence as of Sept. 18. The two were also ordered to seek out mediation to help them resolve their divorce.
Cobain filed for divorce from Silva in March, after less than two years of marriage. In August, Silva requested $300,000 a year in alimony.
Divorce documents obtained by ET state that Cobain was open to paying spousal support, but was adamant about protecting her father's estate, reportedly valued at approximately $450 million.
Silva, 31, formerly a member of California rock band The Eeries, claimed that he had put his career on hold to focus on his marriage, which was one of many reasons he was requesting $25,000 a month in support. Check out the video below to hear more about the contentious litigation.
Warning: Do not proceed if you have not watched Wednesday’s episode of Empire. We mean it!
The Lyon family just can’t catch a break.

Empire co-producer and writer of the episode, Carlito Rodriguez, jumped on the phone with ET to chat about that shocking ending, the ensuing fallout and Taye Diggs’ debut as Cookie’s new love interest.
ET: We have to start with that ending with Andre getting arrested by the police outside the home he and Rhonda used to share. Was he targeted by the police?
Carlito Rodriguez: One of the things that we try to do on Empire -- as much as we’re soapy and heightened -- [is] be reflective of the real world. When we started to talk about what we wanted to do this season, it wasn’t so much that we were looking for topical stuff just to be on time. Where would be an interesting starting point to start talking about class? The natural entry into that story would be Andre because Andre is the buttoned-up, Wharton MBA graduate. Andre is “presentable” and “respectable,” where Lucious and Cookie are very, very, very blue collar -- and very proud of that -- roll your sleeves up, pull yourselves up by the boot straps, we made our money and reputation in the street and turned all of that crime and fringe existence into an urban success story. Andre did it the “right way,” and here he is coming out of his nice little penthouse and because he looks the way he looks, he must be up to something.
What can you tease about where this may go? It seems this will have immediate repercussions for the Lyon family…

Jamal and Andre had a few moments in this episode where they vowed to be each other’s support systems. Will that bond continue to grow?
We look forward to scenes among the brothers, whether it’s two of them or all three of them together. We look forward to those scenes as much as scenes between Cookie and Lucious because we feel like that’s where our money is. These brothers, having the parents that they have, they find a lot of comfort in not only hearing each out but also helping each other out. As much as they jockey for position to be Mom and Dad’s favorite or Mom’s favorite or Dad’s favorite, we love that they’re also there for each other. Absolutely we’re very much playing into this idea that no matter how much Mom and Dad go at it -- they use these boys in their own tug of war -- these are grown young men with their own ideas about “OK, Mom and Dad are doing their thing but that shouldn’t affect us.” Sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn’t.
We also met Taye Diggs as Angelo Dubois, who is everything that Lucious does not represent, and already there’s a rift between Lucious and Angelo. How does Lucious handle a new man in Cookie’s life?

What can we expect from Angelo’s courtship of Cookie?
With a woman like Cookie, I think that anybody who’s trying to woo Cookie and trying to get at her -- whether it’s Angelo, Laz in season two, Malcolm in season one -- is really going to have to step their game up. And not because Lucious is so formidable, she’s her own woman and I think that anybody who wants a serious relationship with Cookie Lyon is going to have to bring their A-game.
Jamal’s panic attack at the Summit forces him to come to grips with the fact that he isn’t in the right frame of mind to perform on stage right now. What are the steps he’ll have to take to get back to that level again?

Becky is presented with the opportunity to leave Empire Records. If she does, how does that affect her relationship with Lucious?
Becky needs to have her own life. Now that she’s front and center, she’s A&R at Empire, how is that affecting her day to day? Empire is constantly under attack, Lucious Lyon is constantly under attack, and by default, so is Cookie and so are the Lyon boys. Now Becky has the opportunity to follow her heart and go somewhere else, what are you going to do? Guaranteed that the decision she makes is going to affect her in the future. We’ll see if she made the right decision or not.
That Beyonce reference with the “Becky with the good hair” line was a must, right?
(Laughs.) That’s Gabby [Sidibe] doing her thing too. She’s a beast. We love her.
What did you think about the latest episode of Empire? Share your thoughts on Twitter by tweeting @etnow!

Happy Birthday to Hilary Duff!
Throughout the years we've watched the actress grow up from Lizzie McGuire to Kelsey Peters, and now she's just one year away from 30!
While the Younger star was showered with gifts -- and love from her co-stars --  she looked a little anxious to turning the big 2-9 just the day before.
"OMG, I'm 29 soon," she captioned a hilarious selfie on Instagram.
Duff seemed to be in a better mood once the day finally arrived.
"Thank you for all my birthday wishes," she wrote on Twitter. "I feel so loved, my heart feels so full! I appreciate everyone taking the time to wish me a happy bday."
As for how she spent the day, the actress hoarded three dozen mini cupcakes from her mother, Susan: 
"I won't share the 3 dozen mini cupcakes that came to my door this morning mother. I won't," she hilariously captioned a screenshot of a text conversation with her mom.
Received a lovely birthday cake from The Chew:
Got comfy in some chic new "slips":
And of course tuned in for the season three premiere of Younger:
Just before her birthday, the singer revealed she's got a new man in her life: her personal trainer, Jason Walsh.
"We have [found a little 'like' with each other]," she told Rosanna Scotto during her appearance on Good Day New York earlier this week. "We've known each other for a really long time and he's a great guy and we have a lot of fun together. It's nice to have that excitement in my life."
See more in the video below.
If you don't register to vote, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson will hunt you down.
The action star took a short break from shooting Jumanji in Hawaii to help get the word out about the importance of registering to vote with a short public service announcement on YouTube.
"Did you know, on average, it takes approximately a minute and 34 seconds to register to vote? 94 seconds to register to vote! 94 seconds, guys! Can you believe that s**t?" Johnson marveled in the fun PSA.
To help get his point across, the 44-year-old star was joined (via video mosaic montage) by his Seven Bucks Productions team, who wrote and performed a fun little song detailing all the things a person could do in 94 seconds (including: "tie your shoes," "sing the blues, " and "go out and b**ch-slap a candy-a** jabroni if you choose").
The song ends with the very unambiguous promise that, if you don't register, The Rock will "come find you."
"And you know I will," Johnson sings, concluding the song with an intimidating smile.
For those who haven't yet, you can avoid The Rock's wrath by registering to vote here.
Recently, Johnson welcomed his Jumanji co-star, Nick Jonas, to the jungle set of the highly anticipated sequel, and the two looked super rugged in their adventurer outfits. Check out the epic on-set pic in the video below.
Kim Kardashian is doing as (some) Parisians do.
The 35-year-old reality star took to Instagram on Wednesday to announce her arrival in the City of Light with -- what else -- a topless photo.
"Parisian Vibes," she captioned the racy pic.
When it comes to Kim Kardashian, the rule is clearly "look, don't touch."
Celebrity prankster Vitalii Sediuk found that out first-hand on Wednesday, when he attempted to give Kim's booty a little kiss.
Sediuk -- who attacked Gigi Hadid in Milan, Italy, last week -- was interrupted by Kardashian's security guard, Pascal Duvier, before he was able to grab a hold of her.
"My security @PascalDuvier is a G," the mother of two tweeted shortly after the incident.
See more in the video below.
Jose Fernandez's ex-fiancee is speaking out and offering support to the Marlin's pitcher's pregnant girlfriend in her first public statement since Fernandez was killed in a Miami Beach boating accident last Sunday.
Carla Mendoza and Fernandez dated for three years before ending their engagement earlier this year, and despite splitting up, the Marlins cheerleader revealed that she will always love the 24-year-old athlete.
"My deepest love goes out to those who saw Jose as more than an athlete, but as a passionate, raw human being. The heart break is unbearable," Mendoza wrote on Instagram on Tuesday.  "There was so much more to him than anyone could even begin to understand. I'm fortunate enough to have loved and be loved by Jose, and his family, for over [three] crazy beautiful years. Thank you so much to everyone who's reached out to me, it truly means a lot. Nothing will make this time easy for anyone and if you do one thing today, let it be that you tell those close to you how much you love them. Not one day will pass by that I don't think about him or love him. Jose never went one moment without knowing how much support and love he had from those close to him."
At the end of the post, Mendoza added a touching message for Fernandez's pregnant girlfriend, Maria Arias.
"My heart goes out to Maria, as she is expecting his child," she continued. "Please honor Joses memory by respecting his daughter and her mother as I'm sure this is all too painful for her as well."
Fernandez and two friends were killed after their 32-foot boat collided with a rock jetty that extends from Miami's port, and subsequently flipped over into the water early Sunday morning. Authorities believe that speed was a factor in the fatal collision.
Sadly, one of Fernandez's final Instagram posts was dedicated to Arias. "I'm so glad you came into my life," he captioned a pic of Arias on the beach, cradling her baby bump. "I'm ready for where this journey is going to take us. #familyfirst."
The rising baseball star defected from Cuba in 2007, and even saved his mother from drowning during the journey to America. He was signed to the Marlins as a first round pick in 2011 and earned a Rookie of the Year honor in 2013.
See more reactions to Fernandez's untimely death in the video below.
Warning: Spoilers ahead for Wednesday’s brand new episode of Blindspot.
Roman isn’t messing around on Blindspot.

Following the episode, Aussie actor Luke Mitchell talked to ET about what fans can expect between Jane/Remi and Roman and what’s in store.
ET: Now that we’re knee-deep in the season, what has it been like for you to dig into Jane, or Remi’s, history with Roman and what they’ve endured?

You mentioned Roman will do anything for his sister. In this episode, he kills for her. He covers for her with Shepherd, who is rightfully suspicious of Jane. What is going through his mind when realizes he has to cross that line for Jane?
He’s scared of what Shepherd might do if she were to find out that Jane isn’t capable of [killing] and that Jane hasn’t found a way back to being Remi. The two different names of the one person almost speak to [where she is] -- Remi being the old character and Jane being the new character. Jane and Roman are blood relatives and blood is thicker than water; as much as Shepherd is their mother, you’re increasingly seeing how much of a she-wolf that she is. She’s protective of her own, but she won’t let anything stand in the way of what she needs to get done. This is another instance of him protecting his sister, acknowledging that she’s not yet who Roman knows her to be. He’s scared because he doesn’t know what that means and he feels the need to threaten her to really shake her up and help her find a way back to being the person he knows she is. They’re still getting to know each other even though they know each other so well. It’s a weird dichotomy.
Is there any doubt in Roman’s mind thath she could fully return to being Remi?
There is no doubt in his mind, but he’s concerned. He doesn’t know what’s possible. They erased her memory so it’s a confusing time but he also feels there’s hope -- if nothing else, he as her blood brother, is going to bring her back into the fold and be reunited and be a family again.
Before we move forward, it’s established that Roman and Jane are blood-related? From the episodes we’ve seen thus far, it didn’t seem 100 percent clear.

Roman’s threat to Jane at the end, where he essentially tells her he’ll go after whoever’s closest to her, which one could imagine Weller might be at the top of the list. Is this working toward a potential showdown between the three of them?
That would be one hell of a showdown: Roman versus Weller with Jane in the middle of it. It would not surprise me in the slightest if we explore that. I don’t know that he’s necessarily implying that specifically. Instead, I think he’s just trying to wake her up and find her way back, but also letting her know that he’s stronger than he’s ever been, Roman spent most of his life trying to prove himself -- he’s never been as good as Jane, always No. 2 in the family. This is partially his way of stepping up and letting her know he means business and he’s not a weak little kid anymore.
Could Roman go rogue?
Roman is such a complicated character that nothing would surprise me. The next script that the writers give me, they could literally write anything in that script and I’d be like, “Yup, OK, of course Roman does that.” In essence, he’s a fragile little boy who went through a traumatic childhood and is forever trying to prove himself and his only family is Jane. Now he’s a part of this anti-government organization and he’s under the direct influence of his mother who, as you can see, he has a rocky relationship with. Nothing would surprise me.
The premiere revealed that there’s a mole within the agency, who’s been secretly working with Shepherd and Roman.
That was an exciting revelation!
Do you know who it is? If so, how surprising is the identity of the mole?
I do know who it is and it’s not who I thought it was going to be.
What did you think of the latest episode of Blindspot? Share your thoughts on Twitter by tweeting @etnow!

Kate Middleton continues to wow on her Canadian tour.
The mother of Prince George and Princess Charlotte stepped out in two drastically different looks on Wednesday as she and Prince William toured Whitehorse and Carcross in the Yukon territory. 
Middleton first arrived at the McBride Museum in Whitehorse, in a stunning red coat by Carolina Herrera. The 34-year-old royal accessorized her look with a small clutch and simple heels.
William, also 34, accompanied his wife in a navy ensemble and brown suede shoes.
The couple opted for more casual looks later in the day. Kate arrived at Carcross, a local First Nations community, in a cozy grey sweater, and chic cowboy boots.
While Prince George and Princess Charlotte didn’t accompany their parents on Wednesday, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge enjoyed watching the local children put on a little performance.
The Royal Family has been on their Canadian tour since Sept. 24, and are expected to continue exploring the country until Saturday.
See their grand entrance in the video below.
Looks like Gavin Rossdale is taking career cues from his famous ex!
The Bush rocker and ex-husband of former coach on NBC's The Voice, Gwen Stefani, has joined the cast of the reality singing competition's British concept, The Voice UK, the show announced Wednesday.
"Please welcome our brand new coaches for #TheVoiceUK!" The Voice UK shared on Twitter. "Jennifer Hudson, Tom Jones & Gavin Rossdale join will.i.am in 2017."
"I’m so thrilled to be joining The Voice UK," Rossdale said in a statement Wednesday. "I’ve always been extremely proud to fly the flag for British rock music and I can’t wait to join this incredible panel and help discover some new talent."
Rossdale, who was married to Stefani for 12 years, appeared on the American version of The Voice as a mentor on Team Gwen, while he and his ex-wife were still together.
PHOTOS: Gwen Stefani Makes Surprise Appearance at Blake Shelton's Concert
Meanwhile, while Stefani is not on the show this season, that hasn't stopped her current flame, Blake Shelton, from giving her shoutouts!
Watch the video below to see the country singer play the "Gwen Stefani Card" to steal a contestant from Adam Levine.
Ever since she became the first African-American female principal dancer with the American Ballet Theatre, Misty Copeland has broken down all types of barriers in the dance world.
But when ET caught up with the 34-year-old ballerina at the National Youth of the Year Boys & Girls Clubs of America Gala in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday, the Club alumna revealed there was a time where she didn't feel all that comfortable in her own skin.
Born in Kansas City, Missouri, and raised in San Pedro, California, Copeland began her ballet training at the age of 13, and immediately felt the pressure most dancers feel while in the studio competing with their peers. In addition to the insecurities that come with trying to feel confident in a leotard, tights and a slicked-back ballerina bun, or constantly looking in the mirror to see how one's skills match up to others in the room, Copeland was also judged for her athletic build while perfecting her skills at the San Pedro City Ballet.
Looking back, however, Copeland knows that all those thoughts were just distracting her from becoming the iconic dancer she is today. When asked if she could go back in time and visit her younger self in the studio, she said she would tell herself to just "be confident."
"Believe in yourself and don't compare yourself to other people," she continued. "Just try not to get caught up in the outside noise and just know that everything's going to work out."
Things have certainly worked out in Copeland's favor, and she's proved that hard work pays off. Now, her confidence is on fire, and she hopes that aspiring dancers will be inspired by her story. That's one of the reasons why Copeland decided to play muse to esteemed photographer Gregg Delman for his first book, Misty Copeland.
"It was kind of a work in progress and in process with Gregg Delman, the photographer," Copeland explained to ET. "We kind of became friends and we started taking photos for fun. And five years later, we came up with the concept for the book and just kind of displayed these years and years of just, like, fun work we were doing together."
"I think it’s empowering for girls to see someone who is confident in their body, and that it's OK to have muscles and to show the hard work that ballerinas put into their bodies and the art form," she continued. "I'm just so proud of the book."
See more pics from Copeland's breathtaking shoot HERE.
Alec Baldwin is coming back to Saturday Night Live, and he's bringing his pitch-perfect Donald Trump impression with him.
To capitalize on this heated election season, the live sketch series is pitting the Oscar winner's Trump against recent Emmy winner Kate McKinnon's celebrated Hillary Clinton impression, and it might be the only good thing to come out of this entire run for the White House.
Baldwin, who has hosted the long-running comedy program a record 16 times, will likely star in the cold open at the start of the show's season 42 premiere on Oct. 1. It's almost a guarantee that the sketch will lampoon Trump and Clinton's recent presidential debate.
NBC released a promo on Wednesday teasing Baldwin's appearance as the divisive and controversial business mogul, showing the 58-year-old star donning bushy white eyebrows, a voluminous wig and orange makeup as he gets ready to take on his political rival.
MORE: 7 Amazing 'SNL' Fake Movie Trailers You Need To Watch Right Now!
While Baldwin will be guest starring as Trump, Suicide Squad star Margot Robbie is the premiere's guest host, along with musical guest The Weeknd.
SNL also dropped a promo for the season premiere with Robbie and McKinnion, where the two actresses shared a few glasses of wine, dished on who they were voting for, admitted to having crushes on raccoons, and then threw an epic, two-woman dance party!
NBC also announced on Wednesday that Hamilton creator and star Lin-Manuel Miranda has signed on to host the second episode of the new season on Oct. 8, joined by musical guest Twenty One Pilots.
SNL is returning for their new season after a surprising cast shake-up during the hiatus, with the departure of longtime cast members Taren Killam and Jay Pharoah as well as newcomer Jon Rudnitsky, who had only been with the show for one season.
Meanwhile, the show promoted staff writer Mikey Day to the role of featured player, and signed on improv comic Alex Moffat and stand-up comic Melissa Villasenor, who was a semi-finalist during season six of America's Got Talent in 201, to make their on-screen SNL debuts this season.
Baldwin's Trump will likely be more warmly received than the actual Donald Trump, who enraged viewers once again during Monday's presidential debates when he doubled down on his negative rhetoric against Rosie O'Donnell, causing many to come out and show the actress their love and support in the face of his hateful remarks. Check out the video below to hear more.
Kate Hudson understands the power of forgiveness.
The Almost Famous star -- who has not spoken to her biological father, Bill Hudson, in many years -- revisited their strained relationship in a new interview, and revealed how she's found a virtuous way to make peace with it.
"[His] issues ... are just something that he has to live with, and that must be painful for him," the 37-year-old actress said on Sirus XM's The Howard Stern Show. "I forgive him."
While the actress admitted she'll always have an "inability for me to understand my father," she believes, "Forgiveness in any aspect of something that is complex is the greatest tool."
One thing that certainly helped Hudson while growing up was Kurt Russell, who has been together with her mother, Goldie Hawn, for 33 years.
EXCLUSIVE: Father-Daughter Duo Kate Hudson & Kurt Russell Dish on Bonding While Filming 'Deepwater Horizon'
"When you have a father like Kurt, whose sort of been there for the hard stuff ... He's not a perfect man," Hudson admitted to Stern, adding, "But the trust that I got from him in terms of his dependability was priceless for me."
Meanwhile, despite forgiving her biological father, Hudson did confess that she has had no contact with him in a long time.
"I don't," she responded when asked whether the two keep in touch. "It is very sad ... I have a very thick skin because of it."
Listen to Hudson's interview with Stern below (Some NSFW language).
Back in 1989, Hudson's estranged father addressed his ongoing custody battle with Hawn to ET.
"I've been living with the problem of visiting my children and seeing them on a regular basis for nine years now," he said at the time. "I want to see my children on my terms and I'd like my relationship to flourish with my children, my hands are tied."
Earlier this year, Hudson reflected on how her family troubles with her dad had actually been a "blessing" in her life.
Watch the video below for more.
Janet Jackson is prepping for motherhood!
The "Dammn Baby" singer, who is expecting her first child with husband Wissam Al Mana, was spotted out and about during a rare public appearance in London on Tuesday, giving fans a peek at her burgeoning belly in pics exclusively obtained by ET.
But at 50 years old, is Jackson putting herself at risk with pregnancy? ET recently sat down with fertility expert Dr. Catherine Deugarte, who broke down all the things Jackson should and shouldn't worry about as she prepares for childbirth.
While it's unknown if Jackson became pregnant naturally, Deugarte explains that there are other popular options women use when they're looking to start a family, especially at an older age.
"At age 50, if you do get pregnant naturally, which is very unlikely, there is a very high chance of a miscarriage or having an abnormal baby," she says. "The chance of getting pregnant at 49 [or later] with your own eggs is less than one percent."
"The other scenarios are they use an egg donor, through the use of in vitro fertilization, with or without the use of a gestational surrogate," she continues. "Or, you can get pregnant with embryo or eggs that you had frozen in your younger days."
Deugarte adds that as long as Jackson's under the proper care of a doctor, however, she shouldn't have to stress much.
"Carrying a baby [at this age] is not a problem as long as you have normal health and your uterus looks great," the fertility specialist confirms. "Once you are pregnant, especially if it's just one baby, and you're in good health, the chance of delivering a healthy baby is just as good as somebody who's younger."
But with every pregnancy, there is always the possibility of some risk. Deugarte tells ET that women of Jackson's age can be at higher risks of C-sections. "They also have a higher chance of high blood pressure, diabetes in pregnancy, and delivering pre-term or before the baby's due," she adds.
Last April, Jackson announced she was postponing her Unbreakable World Tour in order to start a family in a video posted to YouTube.
"I thought it was important that you be the first to know," she said in the clip. "My husband and I are planning our family, so I'm going to have to delay the tour. Please, if you could try and understand that it's important that I do this now. I have to rest up, doctor's orders."
Deugarte tells ET that "taking it easy" is important.
EXCLUSIVE: Music Producer Jimmy Jam Opens Up About Janet Jackson's Pregnancy -- 'I Can't Wait to Be an Uncle!'
"You definitely want them to take it easy," she explains. "Usually [this] means no heavy activities, such as horseback riding or roller coasters or exercising. Sometimes pelvic rest is recommended, so no intercourse if you're worried about somebody delivering early."
To hear the latest update on Jackson's pregnancy (and see pics of her baby bump!) watch the video below, and be sure to tune in to Wednesday's Entertainment Tonight for more.
Rita Ora channeled the queen of dance while supporting the princess of pop.
The British singer took a page out of Madonna's fashion book, putting an '80s twist on a classic ensemble for Britney Spears' performance at the Apple Music Festival in London on Tuesday night.
At first glance, Ora's lilac tweed jacket-and-skirt combo makes her seem ready for a business meeting.
But the 25-year-old songstress is well known for her bold fashion choices, and this outfit is no exception -- she made a daring move, pairing the otherwise prim suit with a black fishnet long-sleeve shirt and exposed lace bra.
Ora didn't go light on the accessories either, completing her "Like a Virgin" look with a studded leather fiddler hat, red-framed glasses, chunky gold medallion necklace, over-sized gold hoops, and black military boots.
Not only that, but she was even sporting a new 'do -- she chopped off her long locks in favor of a wavy bob.
Now that is how you make a statement!
Ora had a great time inside the venue as well, Snapchatting herself singing along to some of Spears' biggest hits, plus shots of the pop star pole dancing while performing "Slave 4 U." Not bad for Spears' first concert outside of Las Vegas in five years, eh?
The "RIP" singer wasn't the only famous Spears fan in the audience at the Camden Roundhouse -- London It Girls Georgia May Jagger, Lara Stone, and Daisy Lowe were there, as well as a number of British actresses and models.
Ora's see-through top may have been inspired by a recent photo spread in Vanity Fair Italia. On Wednesday, she shared outtakes from the shoot with her 10.3 million Instagram followers, all of which showed off the crooner's toned physique and penchant for black bras.
If the look ain't broke...
When it comes to relationships, Elizabeth Gilbert doesn't mind pressing the reset button. The Eat, Pray, Love author, recently split from her husband, Jose Nunes, after falling in love with her best friend, author-musician-hairstylist Rayya Elias, and now, she's addressing the rumors that she's having a "midlife crisis."
"I've just left another marriage, and it's starting to look irresponsible," Gilbert joked to fans during a Facebook Live chat on Tuesday. "People are saying I’m having a midlife crisis and [asking], 'What is she doing?' All I'm doing is telling the truth, again and again and again, in a way that says, 'This isn't working for me.'"
Gilbert, 47, explained that by abiding by the mantra "curiosity over fear," it means she often shakes up the norm.
"The biggest magic I've ever experience in my life is when I have stepped out against culture," she explained. "What I mean by that is any moment of my life is where I have rejected the model that was set forth about what a woman’s life is supposed to look like."
Regardless of what people may think, Gilbert intends to keep following her heart. "Every time I've done that, the result has been big magic," she said.
MORE: Author Elizabeth Gilbert Opens Up About 'Eat, Pray, Love' Backlash, Partying With Oprah, and Self-Help Snobs
Gilbert announced her split from Nunes in June and revealed her love for Elias, whom she's been friends with for 15 years, three months later. Their relationship went from best friends to partners after Elias was diagnosed with cancer.
"Something happened to my heart and mind in the days and weeks following Rayya's diagnosis," Gilbert shared on Facebook in early September. "Death -- or the prospect of death -- has a way of clearing away everything that is not real, and in that space of stark and utter realness, I was faced with this truth: I do not merely love Rayya -- I am in love with Rayya.”
Gilbert's first marriage to Michael Cooper ended in 2002. Nunes was the inspiration for the "love" in Eat, Pray, Love.
The NCIS team is in mourning.

“Gary was our rock, our cheerleader, our team captain. He inspired us with his leadership, his creative instincts and [his] keen insight,” the NCIS cast and crew said in a statement Wednesday. “NCIS will not be the same without him, and each of us will miss his smiling face and unwavering humor, which lifted us every day.”
“Today is an overwhelmingly sad day for NCIS, CBS and anyone who was blessed to spend time with Gary Glasberg,” CBS Entertainment President Glenn Geller said. “We have lost a cherished friend, gifted creative voice, respected leader and, most memorably, someone whose warmth and kindness was felt by all around him. Our heartfelt thoughts and sympathies go out to his wife, Mimi, his two sons and all his family and friends.”

In 2009, Glasberg joined NCIS as co-executive producer and writer, and in 2011, he was promoted to showrunner of the No. 1 scripted TV drama. In 2014, he launched the successful franchise spinoff, NCIS: New Orleans.
Glasberg started his writing career two decades ago, writing comic books and animation for companies like Warner Bros., Disney, Nickelodeon and Hanna Barbera. Prior to shepherding the NCIS franchise, his TV credits included Shark, The Mentalist, Crossing Jordan and Bones.

Britney Spears and Justin Timberlake will finally reunite -- on screen, that is.
ET has confirmed that Lifetime's upcoming Britney Spears biopic has found its Timberlake in actor Nathan Keyes.
In addition to Keyes' casting as Timberlake -- and Natasha Bassett's previously announced casting as Spears -- the network has also confirmed a few other famous roles.
Clayton Chitty has won the honor of playing Spears' other famous ex (and father of her two children) Kevin Federline, and Kelly McCabe has been cast as her childhood friend and husband of 55 hours, Jason Alexander. In addition, Peter Benson will play Spears' manager Larry Rudolph; Markian Tarasuik will play Wade Robson, her former backup dancer; and Nicole Oliver and Matthew Harrison will take on the roles of Spears' parents, Lynn and Jamie Spears, respectively.
Last but not least, Tamara Thorsen has been cast as Jenna Dewan-Tatum, who was a back-up dancer for *NSYNC during Timberlake and Spears' romance.
Britney -- which will  follow Spears' rise to stardom, public breakdown, and return to the spotlight -- is set to air on Lifetime in 2017.
The pop star, however, has no part in the making of the movie. "Britney Spears will not be contributing in any way, shape or form to the Lifetime biopic, nor does it have her blessing," Spears' rep told ET last month, when the Lifetime movie was announced.
See more in the video below.
Get your wands ready!
Eddie Redmayne stars as Newt Scamander in the upcoming Harry Potter spinoff film, Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and the latest trailer gives the most candid look we've had yet at what the wizarding world in America looks like.
MORE: Eddie Redmayne Casts a Spell at Comic-Con, Premieres New 'Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them' Trailer
As the title promises, it looks like we're in for the most fantastic of magical creatures, as well as what looks to be plenty of apparition-via-suitcase, and a great, foreboding struggle between the magic community and Muggles (or as they're known in America, "No-Maj").
Check out the trailer below, which was released via The Ellen DeGeneres Show on Wednesday.
MORE: J.K. Rowling Releases Four New Wizarding World Stories (Set in America) Ahead of ‘Fantastic Beasts’!
We can hardly contain our excitement!
Fans first got a look at the upcoming film in Dec. 2015, when the studio released an absolutely chilling teaser.
Watch the video below.
Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them will be found in theaters on Nov. 18.
Brad Pitt has nothing to hide when it comes to any alleged drug use, a source close to the Pitt-Angelina Jolie child custody dispute tells ET.
The 52-year-old actor is reportedly being investigated for child abuse after getting into an argument with his and Jolie's 15-year-old son, Maddox, during a flight home on their private plane from Europe earlier this month. Our source says that while authorities did not require Pitt to take a drug test, he voluntarily took one as a sort of preemptive strike in the custody battle process.
"Brad Pitt voluntary took a drug test and was not asked to do so by authorities," the source says. "They didn't force him to take one because it wasn't part of the process."

According to our source, Pitt is currently in Los Angeles and keeping a low profile. Meanwhile, Jolie and their six kids are living in a rental mansion in Malibu, California, where they've been since news of the split broke last Tuesday. It is unclear when Pitt will see his children again.
"He's being careful," the source says of Pitt. "He's leaning on friends for support. This isn't a happy time for anyone."
The Allied star has yet to file a response to Jolie's divorce petition, which she filed last Monday. As for the state of the estranged couple's relationship, the source says the "fact that things have quieted down is a good sign for everyone."
"They both care about the kids," the source notes. "It's unfortunate that [there was] this campaign against him."
Last week, our source said Pitt was frustrated by the "smear campaign" being lodged against him.
"They are a pretty normal family that has family issues from time to time," the source said. "It's sad that people are exaggerating things that hurt everyone."
"People have verbal arguments -- that's what happens when you have a family," our source continued.
As for the incident between Pitt and Maddox, the source called the dispute "totally a child-parent disagreement," and said that any reports of inappropriate physical conduct are "exaggerated or untrue."
Jolie, 41, has asked for physical custody of their children in her divorce filing, which in addition to Maddox, includes 10-year-old Shiloh, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox. Our source tells ET, however, that Pitt wants to be with his kids and have some custody.
Pitt is still hoping to resolve his and Angelina Jolie's issues "amicably and privately," the source told ET on Monday.
Watch below:
Baby bumpin' in London!
 
ET first reported Janet Jackson was pregnant back in May, and on Tuesday, the 50-year-old singing legend's burgeoning belly was on full display. And just look at that pregnancy glow!
 
Check out the snaps of the rarely photographed artist, exclusively obtained by ET, from her day out visiting a baby furniture store.
Well, that's one way to get your point across.
Kendall Jenner had no problem using her best assets to encourage young voters to register on Tuesday, as she showed off a little underboob at a voter registration event.
The 20-year-old model hit up MTV's TRL special, Total Registration Live, where she flaunted her washboard abs in a cropped black-and-white sweater.
"Voting is cute || rtvote.com/Kendall," she captioned a snap of herself at the event on Instagram.
Jenner got a little racy on Snapchat before TRL, however, revealing she went braless with a little underboob selfie.
"Under boob is my thing," she captioned the risqué snap.
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star has been all about "freeing the nipple" lately, taking to her app to explain the latest trend.
"Lately, it's like I'm either braless or I have my bra out, lol," she wrote. "I'm all about freeing the nipple and I just think it's cool to show off what's under your shirt -- whether that's a cute bralette or just skin."
See more in the video below.
Ball so hard, that s**t cray!
When Kim Kardashian West stepped out in Paris, France, on Wednesday, it surprisingly wasn't her sheer ensemble that people had their eyes on -- it was Vitalii Sediuk, a 27-year-old man from Boryspil, Ukraine, who attempted to attack the reality star from behind.
While Kim was exiting a black car and making her way into L'Avenue restaurant, Vitalii lunged at her, aiming for both her ankles and booty.
Luckily, Kim's security guard, Pascal Duvier, was able to grab hold of the attacker before he was able to lay hands on the mother of two.
The Selfish author later took to Twitter to speak up on the incident, writing, "My security @PascalDuvier is a G."
Unfortunately, this isn't the first time Vitalii has targeted Kim, as he attempted a similar attack in the French capital two years ago. During that incident, Vitalii was actually able to tackle Kim by grabbing  onto her legs, almost pulling her to the ground.
Vitalii is notorious for pulling these types of stunts at film premieres and awards ceremonies -- he's previously targeted Leonardo DiCaprio, Brad Pitt and Will Smith. Just last week, he went after Gigi Hadid in Milan, Italy, as she was on her way to an event for Milan Fashion Week.
As seen in photos snapped from the day, Vitalii wrapped his arms around Gigi's waist and lifted her into the air. The 21-year-old supermodel then elbowed him until she was able to release herself from his tight grip.
"Honestly, I felt I was in danger, and I had every right to react the way I did," Gigi later shared in a post she penned for Lena Dunham's Lenny Letter. "If anything, I want girls to see the video and know that they have the right to fight back, too, if put in a similar situation."
To hear more on that incident, watch the video below.
Saturday Night Live is about to get the Hamilton treatment.
The sketch comedy show has announced that Lin-Manuel Miranda will be hosting SNL's Oct. 8 episode, with musical guest Twenty One Pilots.
Miranda recently finished his Hamilton run on Broadway, and next week's episode of SNL will mark his first time serving as the popular late-night program's host. 
Saturday Night Live returns Oct. 1, with Margot Robbie as host and The Weeknd as musical guest.
But back to Miranda, the Broadway big shot has had a lot on his plate since leaving Hamilton in July. He is composing music for Disney's Moana and will be  starring in a sequel to Mary Poppins opposite Emily Blunt as the titular character. 
"You guys are going to be so sick of me in this part, because I plan to out-Ted Neeley Ted Neeley," the 36-year-old actor told ET in June with regard to leaving Hamilton, making reference to Neeley's long-running role in Jesus Christ Superstar. "I've written a part I can't age out of, so even if I take a break, I'll always come back."
"This is not the end of anything," he added. "I don't know when I'm leaving yet, but I think that I built a house I can come back to any time I want, so I’m really excited about that."
See more in the video below.
Janet Jackson has that pregnancy glow!
ET was the first to report back in May that the 50-year-old singer is pregnant with her first child with husband Wissam Al Mana, and only ET has these exclusive new photos taken Tuesday afternoon, when she was spotted out and about in London with a visible baby bump.  Jackson, who is rarely photographed in public, was seen leaving the baby furniture store Back In Action wearing sneakers, dark sweatpants, a black sweater and a matching scarf and headband.

An eyewitness tells ET that Jackson arrived at the store in a chauffeured black Mercedes along with her bodyguard, her assistant and two others from her entourage. Jackson was greeted by staff, who shut the doors for her visit and seated her at a table to seemingly go over some of their merchandise. According to the eyewitness, she also strolled the store and took an interest in one of the prams.
Jackson and Al Mana have a home in London, one of several homes they own around the world, but no word yet if she'll give birth there. As for when she's due, no date has been confirmed, but signs do point to November.
Last April, Jackson announced that she would be postponing her tour to start a family. "I thought it was important that you be the first to know. My husband and I are planning our family, so I’m going to have to delay the tour," she explained in a video posted to Twitter on April 6. "Please, if you could try and understand that it’s important that I do this now. I have to rest up, doctor’s orders. But I have not forgotten about you. I will continue the tour as soon as I possibly can.
READ: Janet Jackson Refutes Claims That She Has Cancer
Jackson has yet to publicly speak about her pregnancy, but La Toya Jackson offered an update on how her younger sister is doing, telling ET earlier this month that she was on bed rest. "She's resting," La Toya said. "She's doing fabulous."
Jackson's former music producer, Jimmy Jam, also told ET back in June at the BET Awards that the "Dammn Baby" singer was "doing wonderful."
"She's doing great," he added. "She's keeping cool and keeping calm."
Watch Wednesday's Entertainment Tonight for more photos and details of Jackson's outing.
When it comes to Rob Kardashian and Blac Chyna's current relationship status, it's complicated.
Following the 29-year-old reality star's drama with his famous family on Monday -- when he claimed the Kardashians didn't invite Chyna to a baby shower they were planning and tweeted sister Kylie Jenner's phone number -- a source tells ET that even Rob and Chyna themselves don't see eye-to-eye when it comes to whether or not they're still in a relationship.
"If you ask Rob, he'll say they're having issues. If you ask Chyna, she'll say they are not together," the source says. "Their relationship is not in a good place right now but they are working on it."
Still, the chances of the two reconciling "are pretty high," the source notes.
According to the source, Rob is "in a bad place right now" due to the stress of Chyna being pregnant, as well as filming their new E! reality show, Rob & Chyna. Rob also apparently "wasn't ready" to be back in the spotlight -- after previously being away from Keeping Up With the Kardashians for two years -- but felt pressured to work again and "get his life together"once Chyna got pregnant.
"The stress led to major fights," the source says. "Chyna and Rob are not in a good place right now, which then sets him into a downward spiral."
In a new preview of this Sunday's Rob & Chyna, Chyna notes that Rob has a hard time when around a group of people. When Scott Disick suggests having a barbeque so that the 28-year-old model can finally meet Rob's friends, Chyna is hesitant.
"Do you think it should be a surprise? Because I feel like Rob always gets nervous and chokes up when he's around a lot of people," Chyna tells Scott.
"I don't know none of Rob's friends, and that's just different," she later tells the cameras.
Rob & Chyna airs Sundays at 9 p.m. on E!
Last month, a source close to Rob told ET that "mood swings" were common for the formerly reclusive reality star, after he deleted all of his Instagram posts from his official account -- including snaps of Chyna.
"He goes through his dark periods," the source said. "He gets depressed and doesn't want to really do anything, doesn't leave the house. It got better for a bit when he first started dating Chyna, but he's in a rut now."
Watch below:
Shannen Doherty's marriage to husband Kurt Iswarienko is stronger than ever.
Doherty is participating in the popular "Love Your Spouse Challenge" on Instagram at the suggestion of her good friend Sarah Michelle Gellar, and on Tuesday, she shared a stunning flashback shot of her wedding day five years ago. The happy couple is holding hands in the romantic photo, with the former Beverly Hills, 90210 star glowing in her wedding gown and dramatic veil.
"Our wedding was exceptional and not for the big event it was," Doherty, 45, writes. "It was exceptional because we committed for better or worse, in sickness or in health to love and cherish one another. Those vows have never meant more than they do now. Kurt has stood by my side thru sickness and makes me feel more loved now than ever."
"I would walk any path with this man," she adds. "Take any bullet for him and slay every dragon to protect him. He is my soul mate. My other half. I am blessed."
Doherty was diagnosed with breast cancer in February 2015. Last month, the former Charmed actress gushed about her supportive husband in an exclusive sit-down with ET.
"My marriage was always strong, but it's made my marriage a thousand times stronger," Doherty said. "He's never missed a chemo. He's never missed a sick day."
"I could not have gotten through this without my husband," she added.
Doherty also revealed Iswarienko's emotional reaction when she told him she had cancer.
"[He] hugged me and said, 'We are going to get through this. You are going to be OK. We are going to get through this, you're strong and you're powerful and you're not going anywhere,'" she recalled to ET. "'You have so much to do in your life. We are going to get through it as a family.'"
Watch below:
Miley Cyrus is all about being honest these days.
Elle magazine released more of her quotes from their intimate Q&A with the 23-year-old star for their October cover, in which she gets extremely candid about a number of hot topics. At one point, the "We Can't Stop" singer had no problem elaborating on her thoughts about Mariah Carey.
When asked about her comment during filming of The Voice that "not everyone can be Mariah Carey," the new mentor didn't hold back.
"I've never really been a fan, because it's so much about Mariah Carey," Cyrus says. "That's part of her shtick; I can see through that. That's part of what makes her a gay icon; like, it's about Mimi! It's about what she's wearing, and it's about her. What I make isn't about me. It's about sharing my story; it's about someone being connected to what I'm saying."
Cyrus says that in contrast, she steers away from advertising any products.
"That's why you don't see me, like, on the sides of buses, selling s**t," she says. "I mean, what am I going to do -- sell makeup? Mostly, I tell people, 'Don't wear makeup.' ... I don't really [wear makeup] for the contestants, because some of these girls come from f**king Arkansas with cake face on. Like, I don't want these kids to come out here and wear a bunch of makeup."
Cyrus -- who, interestingly enough, was the face of MAC's Viva Glam collection last year -- also indirectly calls out Alicia Keys' no-makeup pledge. Cyrus says 35-year-old Keys does in fact have a makeup artist.
"I mean, I cover my zits, but besides that, I don't really wear it," Cyrus claims about her use of cosmetics. "And Alicia doesn't really wear it. But she's got a makeup artist and I don't."
Still, Cyrus acknowledges that you have to be business savvy in Hollywood in order to not get taken advantage of. She claims that at one point, she was actually the least paid person on her hit Disney show Hannah Montana.
"I did not grow up spoiled in any way. I just wanted to be on TV," she explains. "I mean, at one point -- they'll probably kill me for saying it -- I was probably the least paid person on my [Hannah Montana] cast because I didn't know any better. I was just like, 'I can be on Disney! Yeah, I want to do it!'"
"My name was Miley on my show, but I didn't own my name -- we didn't think about that," she adds. "Like, 'Yeah, you can use my name on your show, sure!' My mom started understanding how many people take advantage of a child, so she hired smart people to protect me in that way. I'm happy that when I was younger, people protected me and put me in a position where I can now control my music."
Cyrus later elaborates on her relationship with Britney Spears, given that they share the same manager.
"We've stayed close because of that," Cyrus explains. "She's a little distant in her world. I just want Britney to be happy. Every time she puts out new music, I'm like, 'Is that what she wants to be doing? Or does she just want to chill?' She's looking so good right now, and looking happy."
But one thing they definitely don't do is text.
"I'm not sure if Britney knows how to text," Cyrus says. "I think I've actually texted her twice."

Cyrus, of course, isn't the only celeb who's called out 46-year-old Carey. Demi Lovato briefly quit Twitter in June after getting some heat for throwing shade at the legendary diva while defending Ariana Grande.
"I'm sure she's sitting on diamond records not giving a f**k what I have to say," Lovato admitted to Billboard in July about her Twitter slam. "That's fine. I don't even give a f**k what I have to say. That's why I just say it."
Watch below:
Kirstie Alley is putting past tensions behind her and sending well wishes to her former Dancing With the Stars partner, Maksim Chmerkovskiy.
Alley, who has been cast as a series regular on the second season of Scream Queens, welcomed ET to the set of the hit Fox horror comedy and shared a sweet message to Chmerkovskiy's future tiny dancer.
"I hear he's having a baby – Congratulations," the Cheers alum said when asked if she still keeps in touch with Chmerkovskiy and the rest of the DWTS family.
It was confirmed back in May that Chmerkovskiy and his fiancée, fellow pro dancer Peta Murgatroyd, are expecting their first child together.
MORE: Kirstie Alley is Joining 'Scream Queens' in 'Brilliant and Devious' New Role
Alley and Chmerkovskiy formed a close bond in the ballroom when they danced together on both season 12 and season 15 of Dancing With the Stars, but the 36-year-old dancing professional later revealed that he and Alley had a major falling out.
"I thought we had a great relationship," Chemrkovskiy told host Andy Cohen when he appeared on an episode of Watch What Happens Live in 2014, "And if it was something else or not, I don't know. But I got a message that now that I'm associating with other people that she can't be associated with, I am no longer to be spoken with, and sorry, but that is what it is ... but I still think the world of her and I wish her the best."
DETIALS: Maksim Chmerkovskiy Explains Why He's No Longer Friends with Kirstie Alley
Chmerkovskiy added that he believes Alley's faith in the Church of Scientology might have had something to do with the demise of their friendship. "She stopped getting along with me," he laughed. "I think the world of her. I'm not judging people by their religion. ... I'm Jewish, and you know, I don't really believe in science fiction, but whatever. We had a great relationship."
Alley fired back at Chmerkovskiy's comments by taking to Twitter. "Dear Sir..after you have a** raped me there is really no reason to include 'I wish you the best'.. It's rhetorical," she posted to her fans in August 2014.
But the Look Who's Talking star is no longer fixating on past dancing feuds. In fact, Alley admitted she's not even watching DWTS this season. "There's another show that's in competition with [DWTS] that I've sort of gotten hooked on: The Voice," she said.
"This is why I like The Voice: They're creative, and they're nice, and they're supportive, and they validate everyone whether they're good or bad," she gushed. "I just love that vibe of following power and validation to artists. I think it's so valuable to them! Other shows that have competitive singing and stuff like that -- It's just catty and I don't like that."
When asked if she missed preparing for those elaborate DWTS dances, the 64-year-old actress was quick to disagree. "I don't miss the rehearsals at all!" she said with a laugh. "Again, I was so out of my element. It was so inhibiting .. But you don't really realize how hard you're worked when you do that. It's pretty phenomenal.
"I'm shocked that people don't die on the show," she added with a laugh. "I was considering myself like, 'Am I going to be the first one that dies on Dancing With the Stars?' Because it's so physical, it's crazy!"
Alley may not have died on DWTS, but there's no telling if she'll survive season two of Scream Queens!
Scream Queens airs Tuesdays at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Fox.
While fans are eager to know more about the cause of Tom Hiddleston and Taylor Swift's breakup, the 36-year-old actor kept mum about his three-month relationship with the "Shake It Off" singer.
Hiddleston chats with pal Benedict Cumberbatch for Interview magazine, and does not speak about Swift because he's not asked about her. "There’s another weight of us being in the public eye, which is this presumption that, because your work and your promotion work is very public, your private life should be, too," Cumberbatch explains. "I just want to say that I’m not going to ask questions about my friend’s personal life just because there are unsolicited photographs of him and a certain someone, in a relationship or together. I’m not going to get into that. So that door is closed, dear reader."
Chuckling, the Thor star responds, "Thank you."
While Hiddleston isn't pressed to talk about Swift, he's quite vulnerable during the interview, even revealing his biggest fear in life is regret. "I fear looking back and wishing I had done things I hadn’t," he admits. "It’s interesting, I read this extraordinary article about a book, many years ago, by an Australian nurse who is a specialist in palliative care. It was her job to help people on their way out, to ease their pain. So she spent a lot of time with people in their last days and weeks. And she felt so moved by the accumulated experience, because she heard people say such similar things. Weirdly enough, at the top of the list was, 'I wish I hadn’t worked so hard.'"
Hiddleston also gushes over his parents, who Swift met when the two first started dating, and the childhood they provided him. "I feel so grateful to my mother and father for a happy childhood. There are things I now understand that they were able to give me that are very special," he shares. "And I think the early years, the first decade of your life, is the most formative in a way. Other than that, I’m grateful for people who have believed in me when others might not have."
The Emmy nominee is also happy to chat about his friendship with Thor co-star, Chris Hemsworth. The two are currently working on a sequel in Australia for the popular film franchise. "The best thing about it, honestly, is working with Chris again. I first met him in Kenneth Branagh’s house in England in 2009," he recalls. "We were mere children, in the very beginning of our acting journeys. We made an instant connection, and it’s been extraordinary to share the ride with him -- this mad journey with Marvel."
In addition to his interview, which was done over the phone in August, Hiddleston shows his darker side, posing in a series of leather-clad, vampire-esque outfits for a sexy photo shoot for the magazine.
Meanwhile, Swift has been seen out and about with her squad. Over the weekend, she attended Liberty Ross’ 38th birthday party, and hung out with Gwyneth Paltrow, Mary J. Blige, Mick Jagger, and the ladies of Haim.
Check out the star-studded bash:
Seth Rogen is bringing some musical star power to this year's fifth annual Hilarity for Charity Variety Show, recruiting rapper Snoop Dogg to headline the Halloween-themed event.
The "Young, Wild and Free" musician is set to perform several songs throughout the evening at the star-studded event, which is put on annually by Rogen and his wife, Lauren Miller Rogen, to benefit the Alzheimer's Association.
"Each year, we set out to plan a show that will entertain and make people laugh. With Snoop as our headliner, I think we can guarantee our audience a pretty incredible evening! We can’t wait to see what he has cooked up," the Neighbors star said in a statement to ET.
The 44-year-old rapper said he "didn’t think twice" about signing on to perform for a good cause.
Rogen and his wife founded the Hilarity for Charity Fund four years ago, with all proceeds going to help families affected by Alzheimer's and towards research into groundbreaking methods for combating the illness that impacts millions of people around the world. Since its creation, the event has raised over $5 million to help fund these initiatives.
Snoop Dogg joins the ranks of Hilarity for Charity’s past musical guests like The Backstreet Boys, Bel Biv Devoe, Bruno Mars, Mayer Hawthorne and Miley Cyrus.
When the "Wrecking Ball" singer rocked the charity gala last year in a wildly revealing outfit, the theme was "James Franco's Bar Mitzvah," and Cyrus helped the star honor his manhood with such karaoke favorites like "Super Freak" and "Shout." Check out the video below to see more from the wild night of fundraising.
Those interested in a chance to attend this year’s event as VIP guests can donate to HFC through their CrowdRise Campaign. For more information and to purchase tickets, check out the organization online at www.hilarityforcharity.org.
She may have worked with Donald Trump on Celebrity Apprentice, but Sharon Osbourne doesn’t think the business tycoon is ready to rule the free world. On Monday, The Talk co-host appeared on Conan, where the topic of the recent presidential debate came up.
“He gives you so much to talk about and so much to laugh about,” the British TV personality told host Conan O’Brien of Trump.
But she isn’t worried about the potential of a Trump presidency.
“Even if he gets it, they’ll have his a** out of there before Christmas,” she said.
“I don’t think you understand how our system works,” O’Brien quipped.
After confirming that she is not, in fact, a Trump supporter, Osbourne noted that she doesn’t think the former reality TV star actually wants the job of commander in chief.
“I think he thought to himself, ‘You know what, it can only help my brand,’” she mused. “’It can only help me.’ And then because he makes everyone laugh, he’s here. I don’t think he wants to do it.”
Osbourne does, however, have sympathy for Donald’s wife, Melania Trump.
“This poor girl, lovely girl, gets stuck with him. Suddenly they want to know who her parents are, where she was born, did she get a college degree?” Osbourne explained. “This girl didn’t sign up for that s**t. She just wants to walk around with her Hermes bag and as much makeup on the face as she can get on, you know, t*ts and a**.”
MORE: Celebs Speak Out About Historic Presidential Debate as Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump Face Off
This isn’t the first time Osbourne has spoken out about her Celebrity Apprentice boss. In September 2015, she visited Conan during the Republican debates, where she joked about The Donald.
“Working with him he was an absolute gentleman, very respectful, very nice,” she said sincerely. “When you watch him on the debates, it just reminds me of a three-hour episode of The Apprentice.”
For more from the first presidential debate, watch the video below!
You can always count on Kim Kardashian West to tell it like it is.
The 35-year-old reality superstar sat down with Andy Cohen at The Girls' Lounge dinner in New York City on Tuesday, where she referenced her brother Rob Kardashian's latest (and very public) Twitter drama. Rob tweeted little sister Kylie Jenner's phone number on Monday night, accusing his famous family of not inviting his pregnant fiancee, Blac Chyna, to a baby shower they were planning.
When Cohen asked Kim if she was able to watch the first debate between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, the outspoken Clinton supporter admitted she was a little bit distracted at the time.
"I watched a little bit of it but I was on the phone at the same time, a little family drama," she said candidly. "Group texting."
Kim looked flawless at the event, sporting a black halter cut-out dress that showed off her slim stomach.
Earlier in the day, the mother of two spent some time with her good friend, Racquel Smith. Smith's husband -- former defensive end for the New Orleans Saints, Will Smith -- was shot and killed in April in a case of road rage.
"Love spending time with my @rockie91," Kim captioned a selfie of the two. "Today was definitely much needed and warmed my heart! Love you!!!"
Smith also posted the same pic on her Instagram, and gushed about Kim's "beautiful soul."
"Regardless of what ANYBODY has to say, her beauty runs deep in her heart," Smith wrote. "To call her a friend is putting it mildly. She has been there for me from day one but through this tragedy, I can call or text her night or day and she is there immediately. Whether acting as a confidant or just giving me sisterly advice, she is there."
On Tuesday, a source told ET that Rob "misunderstood" and "overreacted" when he called out his family on Monday night.
"Rob was told that the shower was still going on for him but Chyna couldn't make it, but he misunderstood the entire thing and overreacted," the source said. "The girls knew Chyna couldn't make it, and Chyna was cool with it, but Rob thought something was being done behind closed doors to make sure she couldn't be there."

According to the source, Rob and Chyna's relationship has also been strained in recent days, though she's not planning to leave him.
"Rob and Chyna haven't been doing well lately," the source said. "Rob is in one of his funks right now."
Watch below:
Gwyneth Paltrow turned 44 on Tuesday, and was excited to celebrate.
The mother of two posted a makeup-free selfie to Instagram with an inspiring message on her birthday. "#nomakeup for my 44th birthday, embracing my past and future," she wrote. "Thank you for the instalove #goopgoesmakeupfree @goop."
A few months prior to her special day, Paltrow told ET that she doesn't "feel pressure to look young."
MORE: Gwyneth Paltrow Talks 'True Sexuality,' Flashes Her Enviable Abs
"I feel like I've earned my wrinkles, and I'm very proud of everything that I've gone through in life -- both good and bad," she shared. "I don't want to be 26, I would never want to go back there, ever. I think what we want to do is look our best as we age gracefully."
Paltrow also shared her secret to looking so good in a makeup-free selfie. "My skincare routine has been my complete Goop skincare regimen along with exercise," she explained. "I try to have good nutrition -- I also believe in vodka and red wine and cheese and stuff -- it's all about the balance."
 
EXCLUSIVE: Gwyneth Paltrow Reveals the One Food That Really 'Offends' Her -- and It's Not Spray Cheese
Madonna is ready to rock the vote ...naked.
After Katy Perry stripped down in a Funny Or Die video and insisted that there wasn't a dress code at the voting stations, the 58-year-old music icon also got naked as a way of encouraging others to cast their ballots. Posting a topless selfie to Instagram on Tuesday, she wrote: "I'm voting naked with Katy Perry!! Vote for Hillary. She's the Best we got!"
The scantily-clad shot was posted just an hour after she put up a bizarre photoshopped pic of her on the shoulders of presidential hopeful, Hillary Clinton. "Living for Hillary. Yes, I vote for intelligence," she captioned the pic. "I vote for equal rights for women and all minorities. Women run the world now. They have to get out and start supporting one another. No more misogynist feminists! No more mysogony. Get out and vote."
Madonna also came to the defense of her League of Their Own co-star, Rosie O'Donnell, after Donald Trump slammed her during Monday night's presidential debate. "Mess with my girl Rosie and you're messing with me!!!" she captioned a photo of her and O'Donnell from the 1992 film. "Cruelty never made anyone a winner."
EXCLUSIVE: Zach Galifianakis Says Donald Trump Has 'Mind of an 11-Year-Old'
While debating Clinton, Trump made it a point to call out his longtime feud with O'Donnell, after his opponent made reference to sexist and misogynistic comments he's reportedly made in the past. Insisting that he's only made remarks about the former View co-host and no other women, Trump declared, "I think everybody would agree that she deserves it, and nobody feels sorry for her."
Madonna wasn't the only one to speak out in support of O'Donnell. Here's a look at how other stars reacted to Trump's comments, as well as what O'Donnell herself tweeted:
Gang’s all here! Reese Witherspoon celebrated her youngest son Tennessee’s fourth birthday with her gorgeous family.
On Tuesday, the Draper James founder took to Instagram to share a rare photo of herself with all three of her kids and hubby, Jim Toth, posing around Tennessee and his Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles cake.
“Celebrating our sweet Tennessee’s 4th birthday last night! My forever favorite #NinjaTurtle #TMNT #FamilySandwich,” Witherspoon captioned the pic.
In the sweet photo, the actress is surrounded by the birthday boy and her two eldest kids, Eva, 17, and Deacon, 12, with ex Ryan Phillippe. Though the family aren’t usually pictured together, they often support each other.
On Sunday, Ava posted a sweet message to her little brother on Instagram, writing, “Happy early birthday to this super preschooler going on teenager. Love you, dude.”
MORE: Reese Witherspoon’s Son Tennessee Turns 4 With Epic ‘Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles’ Cake: Pics!
Witherspoon recently opened up to ET about embarrassing her kiddos, saying, "I think I embarrass them terribly when I try to sing Drake songs. I don't stop singing. I enjoy it."
For more from Reese, watch the clip below!
Fifth Harmony is all about girl power!

Fifth Harmony’s new single, the female power anthem “That’s My Girl,” is showcased in the music video, which features teenage versions of DC icons Wonder Woman, Supergirl, Batgirl, Harley Quinn, Bumblebee, Poison Ivy and Katana.
“It’s about girl power and that’s exactly what the song is about,” Fifth Harmony’s Lauren Jauregui told ET recently. “Being there for your girl and helping her through the hard times and the things that we have to go through in life.”

“That’s My Girl” has served as the summer’s unofficial anthem for female empowerment. During the Rio Olympics in August, the uplifting song -- which includes a Destiny’s Child shout-out! -- was used as the soundtrack to a U.S. Women’s Gymnastics video.
For Jauregui, who grew up with DC Comics as a child, the positive message behind DC Super Hero Girls -- who aim to discover their own superhero potential -- struck a chord. After launching her career 16 on The X Factor in 2012, Jauregui reflected on the whirlwind four years since.

Jauregui and her Fifth Harmony groupmates -- Camila Cabello, Ally Brooke, Normani Kordei and Dinah Jane -- have handled their success like pros, and are set to wrap up their 7/27 World Tour in Europe at the end of October.
Back in March, the girls spoke to ET about their latest album, 7/27, which explores the “love” and “heartbreak” they’ve experienced in the past year.

Justin Timberlake’s ready to go in his suit and tie! The 35-year-old is releasing a Netflix exclusive concert film, Justin Timberlake + the Tennessee Kids, on Oct. 12, and the teaser trailer already has us rocking out bodies (this way).
MORE: Justin Timberlake Is One Hot '50s Lifeguard on the Set of Woody Allen's Latest Film -- See the Pic!
In the new clip, Timberlake jams out on stage with his band, The Tennessee Kids, while singing his 2013 hit song “Mirrors.”
“Let's #TimberlakeAndChill. #Netflix,” Timberlake wrote on social media to get fans excited for the upcoming special.
The concert event was filmed during the final two shows of his 20/20 Experience World Tour and will feature behind-the-scenes footage of Timberlake preparing to perform.
"There's not a character that I can sort of hide behind," Timberlake recently told ET of the Netflix special.
But that’s not the only film JT has on the horizon. He is currently filming an untitled Woody Allen project with actress Kate Winslet. Earlier this week he was spotted filming a heated scene in Coney Island, N.Y., alongside the Oscar winner.
He was also photographed on set this month, dressed as a sexy 1950s lifeguard – vintage swimsuit and all!
For more about Timberlake’s concert video, watch the clip below!
Tuesday was a busy night for Late Late Show host James Corden. The British funnyman managed to squeeze a killer performance with the Backstreet Boys and a hilarious race against the fastest man alive, Usain Bolt, all into the same episode.
The “Carpool Karaoke” inventor started off by lamenting about the absence of boy bands.
MORE: James Corden Auditions for ‘Bridget Jones’s Baby’ With Renee Zellweger: Watch the Hilarious Clip!
“We are bringing back boy bands,” Corden declared. “I’m talking proper boy bands – five guys together. I’m talking about the cute one, the funny one, the nice one, the other one, and the maverick who refused to play by the rules, all living together in some weird mansion in Orlando.”
Corden went on to slam present day groups whose members “wear skinny jeans” and “have the audacity to pick up instruments.”
“That is not what I want in a boy band. I want matching outfits, synchronized dancing, and way over budget music videos,” he exclaimed.
Corden then brought out one of the most well-known bands for just that – the Backstreet Boys – where he joined in on their 1997 hit “Backstreet’s Back.” The crowd went crazy during the musical interlude when the group – Corden and all – broke down their iconic dance moves.
But those weren’t the only moves Corden was showing off on Tuesday. He also brought his entire staff (and randomly actor Owen Wilson) in early for a special race against Jamaican Olympian Usain Bolt.
MORE: James Corden Says He’s a Better Singer Than Jimmy Fallon, Opens Up About Britney Spears ‘Carpool Karaoke’ in Gross Game With Jimmy Kimmel
After Wilson’s false start, the actor had plenty of excuses as to why Bolt ultimately beat him.
“I got the start that I wanted,” he said. “I took something off, and you take something off against Usain Bolt and he’s going to blow you away… I was mic’d so obviously that didn’t help and I just flew in from Europe so, you know, jet lag. I’m nursing a bit of a cold, but, you know, I’ve got to tip my hat to him.”
Corden was disappointed to be one of the last people to cross the finish line.
“I would have liked to have been in the top 50, but you know, it wasn’t my day,” the host said. “That is the life of an athlete. That’s the life of a professional track athlete. Some days it comes and some days it doesn’t.”
Watch the clips above to see the two impressive performances!
No drama here! Mandy Moore visited Watch What Happens Live on Tuesday where host Andy Cohen questioned her about pal Minka Kelly being romantically linked to her ex Wilmer Valderrama.
“We’re all close friends,” the This Is Us star explained. “No, it’s not weird.”
When Cohen tried to ask about a potential “love triangle,” Moore quickly shut that idea down, saying, “I love them both, and I’ve been friends with him for 15 years. We’re like very, very close friends.”
Moore explained that Valderrama was her first boyfriend, noting that the pair dated for a year.
For her part, Kelly recently explained that not only is she not back together with Valderrama, but they pair never dated in the first place.
"He's not my ex, and we are good friends and we always have been. It's funny, this whole 'back with my ex' thing," she told Power 106's J Cruz and Krystal Bee. "We're not exes!"
The Friday Night Lights star added, “He's a good friend to me too. [We are] good friends. Wilmer's a really, really good person. And any woman would be lucky to have him."
Valderrama recently ended his six-year relationship with singer Demi Lovato. He has since been spotted visiting Moore on the set of her hit new NBC drama. And though she is just starting her role on the critically acclaimed show, Moore hasn’t forgotten about her recording artist roots.
When Cohen asked her if she’s done with music, she replied, “No. I want to [record again]. I miss music a lot.”
For more on the twists from the first two episodes of This Is Us, watch the clip below!
Check out those pipes! Kate Hudson gave fans a little taste of just how talented she is on Tuesday night. The Oscar-nominated actress visited The Tonight Show where during a commercial break she belted out a few verses of En Vogue’s “Hold On.”
And wow, Hudson can really sing! Host Jimmy Fallon looked taken aback as the audience cheered.
“They were like my girls,” Hudson said of the early ‘90s pop and R&B group. “I was obsessed with them."
Though it was a bit unexpected, Hudson has shown off her vocal stylings before. She sang an original song in the film adaptation of the musical Nine, had a recurring role on Glee, and, of course, there was that iconic scene from Almost Famous where Hudson’s Penny Lane sang Elton John’s “Tiny Dancer” with a bus full of rock stars.
As for an actual album, Hudson didn’t rule out the possibility when questioned by Fallon.
“I’d love to do a record,” she said. “I’ve always been scared of making music. I write music, and it’s super depressing.”
Watch the clip now to hear Hudson’s impressive voice! Plus, see her reading “Mean Tweets” on Jimmy Kimmel Live in the video below.
Taylor Swift called a meeting of her star-studded squad and several key members answered the phone. The 26-year-old pop star was spotted dining on Tuesday at The Waverly Inn in NYC alongside pals Cara Delevingne, Lorde, Suki Waterhouse, and Jack Antonoff.
The “Blank Space” singer donned a fitted black mini-dress with matching heels and a grey overcoat. She also showed off her edgy new bob as supermodel pal Delevingne escorted her into the restaurant wearing a black crop top and jeans.
Swift has been spending her time in NYC recently. Earlier this month she attended the NYFW show for her pal Gigi Hadid’s Tommy Hilfiger collaboration, marking her first public event since splitting from actor Tom Hiddleston.
The GRAMMY winner has been keeping a low profile lately, but her haters are still out in full force. On Saturday, rapper Kanye West took aim at Swift yet again at his concert in her hometown of Nashville, Tenn.
After repeating his now-infamous Swift-inspired lyric from the song “Famous” several times, West told the crowd, “So many people told me, 'You've got to take that line out of the song. You got to play it safe,' but this is what rap music is. This is what art is. Saying how you feel. And this song is how I feel."
Swift has not publicly responded to West’s insults since late July when Kim Kardashian leaked video footage of the singer talking to the rapper on the phone on her Snapchat about the lyrics to "Famous."
Shortly after, the “Shake It Off” singer released a statement, calling the footage “character assassination” and saying she never approved the part of the song where West refers to her as “that b**ch.”
For more of West’s antics, watch the video below
Katherine Heigl is having a little trouble with the legal jargon on her new drama, Doubt, and the pregnant star says it's all because of her forthcoming bundle of joy and the resulting "pregnancy brain."
"Usually I'm pretty good at memorizing. I can do that pretty quickly. It's like the only thing I've got," Heigl joked with ET's Leanne Aguilera during a recent visit to the Doubt set. "So it's really been eye-opening to me to struggle with that."
She also places the blame for her cravings for sweets on her baby, laughing, "It's lovely actually because I feel absolutely no responsibility for my behavior at all. It's great."
The 37-year-old expectant mom said she's "trying really hard to stop" eating junk food, and she's come up with a plan she hopes will work: "Just eat one donut a week. Just have one and then stop thinking about it."
However, shooting a TV show with a full catering spread of sweets and treats doesn't make it easy for her.
"If I'm not on set, I don't think about them that much. And I don't eat them because they're not around," Heigl explained. "But on set, crafty always has a plethora of donuts in really pretty pink boxes and I can't stop thinking about them."
She's also come across another very challenging issue: hiding her growing baby bump. However, the production crew has come up with some very interesting ways to cover it up.
"Today was really impressive," Heigl shared. "I had to come up to my desk and I didn't know that they had strategically placed [a desk lamp]. They were like, 'Katie, would you mind taking a small step to your right?' And I looked down and this lamp was right there. That's clever."
Heigl and her husband, singer Josh Kelley, announced that they were expecting the new addition to their family back in June. The couple is planning to welcome their baby boy in January.
Doubt, which also stars Laverne Cox, Dule Hill, Steven Pasquale and Elliot Gould, debuts midseason on CBS.
Mary J. Blige belts out a song about police violence to presidential candidate Hillary Clinton in a new interview for Apple Music’s The 411 with Mary J. Blige radio show.
In a preview clip of the interview, which premieres on Friday, the R&B icon sings the track as Clinton intently listens.
“If an officer ever stops you, always be polite and never ever run away,” sings the GRAMMY-winner, as Clinton nods along. “Promise momma you’ll keep your hands inside. Is it a gun? Is it a knife? Is it a wallet? This is your life.”
Blige then takes Clinton’s hand as she belts out the powerful line, “It ain’t no secret, no secret my friend, you can get killed just living in your American skin.”
The 45-year-old star is a well-known supporter of the Democratic nominee, choosing one of Clinton’s fundraisers in March to debut her single, “Strength of a Woman.”
She is one of many celebrities backing Clinton, including Kerry Washington, Sigourney Weaver, Connie Britton, Meryl Streep, Demi Lovato and Katy Perry.
Watch Perry get arrested for voting naked in a Funny or Die sketch below.
*Caution: Spoilers ahead!*
Season 23 of Dancing With the Stars trimmed down the field of contestants on Tuesday during their second two-hour results special, and said goodbye to one contestant who'd struggled to improve their scores throughout the first three weeks of competition.
After avoiding elimination last week, former Texas governor Rick Perry couldn't avoid the inevitable.
The 66-year-old politician and his partner, Emma Slater, were voted off after three weeks of consistently earning the lowest scores from the judges.
"I probably lasted a week longer than I thought I would -- if you want to know the truth of the matter -- knowing what little I knew of dancing," Perry told ET's Angelique Jackson backstage after the show. "I just had a really good instructor."
Perry is such a fan of Slater's that he's even asked her to help him learn a few moves for a very special upcoming event in his life. "She's gonna help on the foxtrot that we're gonna do at my daughter's wedding," Perry revealed. "So she's still not through teaching me yet."
Despite getting kicked off, Perry said the important thing is the memories and the friendships he's forged during his time on the show. "I get judged every day and have for the better part of my adult life and I go on about it," he explained. "So, more importantly than whether or not I stayed or didn’t, was that the experience that I had was amazing. It was 30 days of making some great friends that will last now for the rest of my life."
As for who they're rooting for when it comes to the remaining contestants, the choice was pretty clear. "We're kind of biased. We're for Sasha [Farber] and Terra [Jole]," Perry said.EXCLUSIVE: Lindsay Arnold Gushes Over 'Perfectionist' Calvin Johnson's 'Best Night Yet' on DWTS
"Terra is a good Texas girl, [from] San Antonio, and she's kinda fond of Sasha," he added, referring to Slater's relationship with the 33-year-old dancer.
Before Perry's elimination, several couples also found themselves on the chopping block, including Terra Jole and Farber, as well as Amber Rose and partner Maksim Chmerkovskiy.
The contestants weren't the only ones making news after Tuesday night's episode. Len Goodman, DWTS' head judge, also announced that he would not be appearing on the show for a few weeks, because he had to fulfill his commitments as head judge on Britain's Strictly Come Dancing.
"It's difficult to fly every week there and back," Goodman explained. "I'm going to miss it because I've enjoyed so much watching the progression. But I'm going to be well-informed of what's going on. Make sure that it's a ballroom dancing competition, it's not all about razzle dazzle. Show us some proper ballroom dancing."
DWTS co-host Erin Andrews also called out this week to be with her boyfriend, Jarett Stoll, whose nephew recently died. Former DWTS pro Kym Johnson Herjavec co-hosted the show with Tom Bergeron
While the results special was primarily recaps of the previous night's dances, it did give the stars and viewers the chance to hear some behind-the-scenes comments and feedback from the judges that wasn’t heard during Monday's show due to the one-hour time constraint.
The special also featured live performances from Florida Georgia Line and Fitz and the Tantrums, while troupe members and pros rocked the dance floor with dazzling routines.
Check out the video below for a look at one of Monday’s best performances from Olympic gymnast Laurie Hernandez and former DWTS champ Val Chmerkovskiy.
Warning: Do not proceed if you haven’t watched Tuesday’s episode of This Is Us.
This Is Us dropped another game-changing twist!

Married couple Rebecca (Mandy Moore) and Jack (Milo Ventimiglia), who are parents to three children and whose story is told in the past, aren’t actually together in the present day.
Instead, we see an older Rebecca -- Moore aged up with glasses and a conservative wardrobe, including the moon necklace Jack gifted her -- greeting Randall’s two young daughters in a surprise visit as “Grandma.”

A bit of a shock, right?
Is Jack dead in the present day? If he is, did he die years earlier, prompting Rebecca to turn to his friend, Miguel? Even if Jack is still alive, did his drinking -- or something else -- propel Rebecca to separate from him? Are Miguel and Rebecca married in the present day?
Rebecca and Jack’s 1980s storyline was spent exploring a rocky time in their marriage, with Rebecca unhappy with Jack’s steady drinking and lack of parenting. A conversation between Jack and Miguel at a local bar foreshadowed what would prove to be true in the present day.

“As your loyal best friend, it’s my duty to remind you what you got there. You married way, way above your station,” his pal continued. “I’d be careful not to give her reason to notice.”
Sure makes you wonder what happened, doesn’t it?
What did you think of the reveal at the end of the episode? What are your theories? Tell us your thoughts by tweeting @etnow!
This is Us airs Tuesdays at 10 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
On Tuesday's two-hour Dancing With the Stars results special, Tom Bergeron made good use of the show's expansive run time to thoroughly embarrass Val Chmerkovskiy.
The 30-year-old pro dancer is currently partnered with 16-year-old Olympic gold medalist Laurie Hernandez, and while their dominating performances on the dance floor are a point of pride for the pair, Bergeron found the perfect way to make the former DWTS champ blush -- a flashback video from when Chmerkovskiy was a teenager himself.
"I play basketball, I play soccer, I draw, uh… I like girls," an awkward teenage Chmerkovskiy said while introducing himself into a camera years ago.
Chmerkovskiy couldn't keep from turning red as he uncomfortably watched the throwback footage next to Hernandez, whose jaw dropped in utter amazement at how hilariously awkward the handsome heartthrob was in his younger years.
When the flashback came to an end on Chmerkovskiy's declaration that he "likes girls," the typically composed pro fell to his knees and covered his face, but couldn't keep from laughing uproariously.
For more on Chmerkovskiy and Hernandez's epic, sultry tango from this week's competition episode of DWTS, check out the video below.
Popular ABC sitcom Modern Family will feature an openly transgender child actor on Wednesday night’s episode.
Variety reports that the episode, titled “A Stereotypical Day,” will see Cam and Mitchell’s daughter, Lily, invite her transgender friend, Tom, over for a play date.
EXCLUSIVE: Laverne Cox on Becoming TV’s First Transgender Series Regular
Tom will be played by 8-year-old transgender actor Jackson Millarker, who hails from the suburb of Clarkston, Georgia, just outside Atlanta.
“This is Jackson Millarker,” wrote the episode’s director, Ryan Case, on Instagram. “He’s 8 years old, from Atlanta, and just happens to be transgender. He plays Lily’s friend Tom in this week’s Modern Family and he’s wonderful. One of the many reasons I love being a part of this show.”
Jackson’s mother Stacey recently set up a GoFundMe page in the hopes of sourcing donations to fund her son’s career. Looks like her efforts have paid off!
EXCLUSIVE: Ariel Winter Reflects on Growing Up on ‘Modern Family’
The sitcom is the latest in an increasing number of series featuring transgender characters, including Transparent’s Maura Pfefferman, played by Jeffrey Tambor, and Laverne Cox’s role as Cameron in the upcoming legal drama Doubt.
“I’m so excited,” Cox told ET in May.
See the Orange Is the New Black star reveal her diet secrets in the video below.
Jesse Williams wants you to vote.
The 35-year-old actor speaks out in a new election PSA for Save The Day, encouraging those with excuses to get out there, and get registered.
"You say, 'Vote,' and someone says, 'Democracy is a sham. Those people don't work for me. The system is rigged,'" Williams opens the powerful clip, before describing several other common excuses why people don't head to the polls.
"This is not about the White House. This is about your house. If you're not registered to vote, you can't sit on a jury. You can't choose your mayor. You can't choose your city council. You can't even choose your district attorney," he continues. "You can't decide which measures will help your family and community, and which will put them at risk."
"This government was designed to be changed. You can either make that change, or you can take what little they give you," he says. "Democracy is not a sham. It's a job. It's our job. And it took too goddamn long to get it to just let it slide."
"You say, 'Vote,'" Williams concludes the ad, "because there are people who still don't want you to."
This isn't the first time Williams has used his star power to make a statement. In June, the Grey's Anatomy star received a standing ovation at the BET Awards after delivering a powerful, politically-charged speech.
"I'm here for all the incredible protestors, activists, attorneys, organizers that are sacrificing [an] incredibly great deal to be heard and get access to equal rights and justice in this country," Williams told ET before calling for freedom and justice against an oppressive system.
"My personal experience doesn’t necessarily fuel my ability to see humanity in places, and in the places they tell us it doesn't lurk,” he said. “We should be able to ask others to see themselves in us and we should be able to see ourselves in others."
See more in the video below.
The first trailer for Netflix's latest original series, The Crown, dropped on Tuesday, and it looks like the streaming service is about to unleash it's most wildly ambitious project to date.
The Crown, which tells the entire life story of Queen Elizabeth II, is set to dramatize the beloved royal's life over a span of five seasons -- each detailing another decade of her storied life on the throne.
To cover the the project's expansive time period, unbelievable production value and impressive cast, Netflix has also reportedly dropped $100 million on the series, which is more than nearly any show they've produced thus far.
The series is penned by celebrated screenwriter Peter Morgan, who was nominated for an Oscar in 2007 for his screenplay for The Queen, which told the story of Queen Elizabeth II during the aftermath of Princess Diana's untimely death. Helen Mirren starred as the titular ruler, and the role earned her the Academy Award for Best Actress.
In The Crown, actress Claire Foy stars as a much younger Elizabeth, while John Lithgow plays British Prime Minister Winston Churchill. The series details the young royal's uncertain and obstacle-riddled ascent to the throne, and the tension it causes between her and her new husband, Philip -- played by former Doctor Who star Matt Smith.
From the period-clothing to Elizabeth's enormous 1953 coronation ceremony, it's clear in every second of the trailer for The Crown where Netflix spent the massive budget allotted to the expansive drama.
The Crown premieres Oct. 4 on Netflix, when all episodes of the first season will be available for streaming.
Jennifer Lopez has a 8-year-old mini me!
The 47-year-old singer took to Instagram on Tuesday to share a sweet snap with her daughter Emme, and the two couldn’t look any more alike!
"Me and this beautiful princess," she captioned the pic, alongside the hashtags, "#Emme #coconuts #moments #LOVE."
Emme isn't the only one getting a little love on her mom's Instagram. Just last week, Lopez shared the adorable gift her son, Max, made for her.
"Max: this is for Mama...do you like it? Me: OMG baby I LOOOVE it!! Thank you so much!! Max: Good...there's plenty more where that came from. Lol!," she wrote alongside the pic of a colorful rose.
The Shades of Blue star clearly can't get enough of her sweet kids. ET caught up with Lopez in June, where she gushed about paying tribute to them every night of her Vegas show.
"People are like, 'Is she crying!?' I'm like, "Almost every night, thank you," she joked.
"They love it. You know, they go, 'Why is my face up there!?'" she shared. "My son will be like, 'Why is my face there? People are laughing at us!' He gets worried about that stuff. My daughter [just] loves watching it."
See more in the video below.
Rosie O'Donnell is not taking Donald Trump's insults lying down after the Republican presidential candidate rekindled their longstanding feud during Monday night's debate with Hillary Clinton.
"Donald Trump bullying Rosie O'Donnell is justified... #WTF," O'Donnell tweeted on Tuesday along with a link to an article by The Advocate, chronicling the history of animosity between the 54-year-old comedian and the 70-year-old GOP candidate.  "Donny -- hold ur nose -- cuz here comes the cold water."
Another tweet seemed to imply that Trump misstated facts about his original stance on the Iraq War.
"'I opposed the Iraq war ... there is evidence...' #WAKEUP #TRUMPisanILLUSION," she wrote.
The two have been at odds for the better part of a decade, and Trump dragged O'Donnell's name into his debate on Tuesday after Clinton mentioned his history of making misogynistic comments toward women.
"Rosie O'Donnell, I said very tough things to her, and I think everybody would agree that she deserves it and nobody feels sorry for her," Trump said.
Some of the "tough things" the former Apprentice host has called her include "dumb," "disgusting," and "fat, ugly face."
While O'Donnell originally tweeted that she was not watching the debates, she quickly caught wind of Trump bashing her.
"HE WILL NEVER BE PRESIDENT," O'Donnell tweeted Monday.
Their bad blood can be traced back to a 2006 segment on The View in which O'Donnell criticized Trump for being a "snake oil salesman."
"He annoys me on a multitude of levels," O'Donnell said at the time. "He's the moral authority? Left the first wife, had an affair. Left the second wife, had an affair. Had kids both times, but he's the moral compass for 20-year-olds in America?"
O'Donnell received support from peers and fans on social media following the debate. One message came from O'Donnell's A League of Their Own co-star, Madonna.
"Mess with my girl Rosie and you're messing with me!" Madonna tweeted. "Cruelty never made anyone a winner. #rebelhearts4ever."
O'Donnell later thanked all her supporters, writing, "To all those who reached out in love and kindness -- (and even memes) thank u."
Kate Middleton is glowing in green!
As part of her and husband Prince William's Royal Tour of Canada, the Duchess of Cambridge visited Kelowna University on Tuesday, turning heads in yet another stylish ensemble.
Middleton, 34, wore an emerald Dolce & Gabbana dress, adorned with gold buttons and slightly puffed sleeves. Her signature nude stilettos and bouncy brunette tresses gave her look an extra elegant vibe.
The Duke of Cambridge, also 34, looked dapper in a pair of khakis, which he styled with a white dress shirt, blue blazer and black suede shoes.
Middleton looked equally chic on Monday night, rocking a bright red Preen dress with matching heels, teardrop earrings and a flawless low bun at a reception at the official Government House in Victoria, British Columbia.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have been on their Royal Tour of Canada with their kids, Prince George, 3, and Princess Charlotte, 1, since Sept. 24, and will head back to England on Saturday. This marks the couple's first family tour since welcoming their daughter in May 2015.
And the royal family certainly made quite the entrance! Photographers captured pics of the foursome exiting their plane last week, adorably color-coordinated in various shades of blue for their highly anticipated arrival.
To hear more (and see the snaps!) watch the video below.
Sabrina the Teenage Witch turns 20!
The beloved show first premiered 20 years ago today, and Sabrina herself, Melissa Joan Hart, couldn't help but celebrate!
The 40-year-old actress took to Instagram to prove she's still got that magic touch in an adorable video from her new Nutrisystem campaign.
"I honestly can't believe it's been 20 years. I feel old!" Hart revealed in an interview with Nutrisystem before spilling on a few Sabrina secrets.
"Nearly six months before the TV series premiered, Sabrina's 'unofficial pilot' premiered as a TV movie on Showtime," she dished. "In the movie, Sabrina's last name was Sawyer. Ryan Reynolds portrayed Seth, Sabrina's short-lived love interest."
Another secret? After Salem, Hart just "can't do cats anymore." "It was always fun [having cats around], but it was always a challenge," she shared. "The set smelled like cat food -- it was kind of gross."
While Hart has made up her mind about Salem, whether or not the show will return as a reboot is another story.
"There's a lot of talk about a Sabrina reboot. I feel like almost every day, somebody's calling me about it. 'Would we do it? Should we do it? How do we do it?'" she said. "I think the things about reboots is they're really hard to do. They're hard to do right. I think sometimes it's better to just leave it in the past unless you do it really, really great."
Getting the cast back together doesn't seem to be a problem, as Hart said she's still very close with Beth Broderick and Caroline Rhea, who played her aunts Zelda and Hilda.
"I have love for both of them," she gushed, refusing to name Sabrina's favorite. "We, all three ladies, have strong personalities, and there are times we'd all get along, and times when we all were fighting, but we have a close relationship now."
ET was on the set  in 2014 when Broderick reunited with Hart for a special Halloween episode of Melissa and Joey.
Watch our exclusive interview with former co-stars in the video below.
Starring in a string of blockbuster comedies and stand-up specials has really paid off for Kevin Hart!
The hard-working comic topped Forbes' list of the world's highest-paid comedians, earning a reported $87.5 million between June 1, 2015 and June 1, 2016.
Hart, who has starred in the surprise hits Ride Along, The Wedding Ringer and Central Intelligence in the last few years, has actually made most of his money by "touring like a rockstar," according to Forbes.
The 37-year-old father of two has played over 100 live shows this year alone, and often sells out stadiums and arenas, as opposed to comedy clubs and theaters.
The accomplishment is made even more impressive by the fact that Hart has become the first comedian to ever earn more than Jerry Seinfeld since Forbes first began compiling the list almost a decade ago.
Seinfeld, however, still fared well, coming in second and earning $43.5 million over the last year. A majority of his money comes from owning the rights to his hit self-titled sitcom which recently signed a massive deal with Hulu. Seinfeld still tours as a stand-up as well, and his popular web series, Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee, was just renewed for a new season on Crackle.
Another notable addition to the list is Amy Schumer, who came in fourth, and is also the first female comic to ever make Forbes' highest-paid list.
The 35-year-old actress and comedian earned $17 million over the last year, raking in the profits from a sizeable book deal, her Comedy Central series Inside Amy Schumer, her starring role in the hit comedy Trainwreck and a series of national commercial spots for Bud Light.
Dave Chappelle also earned a place on the list, coming in sixth with a total of $13 million in earnings in the last year.
The 43-year-old star's hit Comedy Central series came to an end over 10 years ago after he famously left the show midway through production on its third season. However, Chappelle went on a sold-out stand-up tour last year and appeared in his first acting role in over a decade in Spike Lee's Chi-Raq.
For the complete list of the world's highest-paid comedians, check out Forbes' in-depth breakdown here.
Slay, SJP, slay!
Kanye West is doubling (and tripling) down on his controversial "Famous" lyrics about Taylor Swift.
During a packed concert at Bridgestone Arena in Nashville, Tennessee on Saturday, the rapper played the song three times, delivering the line, "I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex. Why? I made that b***h famous."
He even paused at one point to throw some extra shade at the pop star and critics that find the lyrics inappropriate.
"So many people told me, 'You've got to take that line out of the song. You got to play it safe,' but this is what rap music is," West said. "This is what art is. Saying how you feel. And this song is how I feel."
In a video shared on Twitter, some fans in the crowd can be heard chanting "F**k Taylor Swift" during West's monologue.
Swift's not the only person to get called out by West on his Saint Pablo tour. Earlier this month, the GRAMMY winner addressed comments made by his protégé, Kid Cudi, in which Cudi accused West and Drake for "talkin top 5" while "having 30 people write songs for them."
West initially responded by claiming he "birthed" Cudi and telling him "Don't ever mention 'Ye name" during a show in Tampa, Florida, but later had a change of heart while on stage in Houston, Texas.
MORE: The 17 Yeeziest Moments That Ever Happened!
"I just wanted to take this time out to say Kid Cudi is my brother and I hope he's doing well," West said.
This Is Us is sticking around.

Created by Dan Fogelman, This Is Us became an instant hit, drawing more than 10 million viewers to its debut last week. With DVR ratings factored in, the one-hour series has lured 14.3 million viewers, making it the No. 1 new show of the young television season.
“We’d carefully mapped out an 18-chapter story for the first year of the show, and this allows us to follow through with our exact initial intent,” Fogelman said in a statement. “And to get the order so early on is a tremendous show of confidence and a boost for our entire cast and crew.”

Following last week’s premiere, Fogelman spoke to ET about what fans can expect as the series progresses.
“These characters are at a crossroads and they all get these little victories [in the premiere], and life isn’t all like that. Moving into the series, there are darker moments,” he said. “Even in the more uncomfortable and complicated moments, people are going to recognize versions of themselves or people they know. If we can make that happen and then also make people laugh and make people get upset with characters and love characters [then we’ve done our job].”

Courteney Cox is expressing her concern over the fact that her close pal and former Friends co-star, Jennifer Aniston, is being dragged into all the drama surrounding Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's shocking divorce.
Aniston, who was married to Pitt for five years before they divorced in 2005, has become a focal point following news of the split last week and Cox wants the attention off her bestie.
“I feel like we’re exacerbating it by even talking about it,” the 52-year-old Cougar Town star told ET at Revlon’s Annual Philanthropic Luncheon at Chateau Marmont on Tuesday.
“It’s not about her,” the actress insisted.
Cox’s comments come after Aniston’s husband, Justin Theroux, declared it “nonsense” that his wife’s name is being brought into the situation.
"There are bigger things to b**ch about," Theroux said during an interview with Business Insider. "It's shocking how much bandwidth things can take up when there are far more important things going on in the world."
Theroux added that he sympathizes with Pitt and Jolie’s six children following news of the divorce.
“As a child of divorce, all I can say is, that's terrible news for those children and that's all you can really say," he shared. "It's boring to comment on anything else. People are having a bad time -- that's horrible.”
See more on what Theroux had to say in the video below.
Looks like Chrissy Teigen and John Legend's daughter is already following in her mom's foodie footsteps!
Teigen shared the most adorable photo (no, really!) of baby Luna on Tuesday, with the 5-month-old sporting a sweet ruffled onesie and full-blown chef hat.
"I have dreamed of this day!" the beaming mama captioned her photo, posing with Luna in front of a stove.
Now, when we dub this the most adorable Luna photo of all time, it's not a title to be taken lightly. Teigen frequently shares aww-inducing photos and videos of the little girl on her Instagram account, and they're all so. incredibly. CUTE.
And because we clearly can't get enough of this gorgeous family, ET caught up with Legend earlier this month to learn how fatherhood has changed him.
"I am tougher with my manager," he admitted. "Every time they want me to take a trip somewhere I am like, 'Do I really need to go there?' I would rather be at home as much as I can, but obviously you have to travel sometimes for work, so we just try to make it work whenever I leave."
See the interview below.
Following her shocking split from Brad Pitt, Angelina Jolie has powered up her girl squad.
Just eight days after the By the Sea star filed for divorce from her husband of two years, ET has learned that her closest female friends, Lady Arminka Helic and Chloe Dalton, may be encouraging a smear campaign against the 52-year-old actor.
A source close to the Pitt-Jolie situation tells ET that the two women advising Jolie have been "fueling the actress' aggressive approach against Pitt" from the beginning. They were even with the family the day before Jolie filed the dissolution of marriage, playing baseball with some of the estranged couple's kids.
"Angelina is very close to Arminka and Chloe, and really has left her Hollywood circle in recent years to focus on politics and human rights," the source said, explaining that the 41-year-old actress -- who is a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) -- first met Helic through her UN work a few years ago. "Angelina respects the two of them completely and doesn't make any decisions without them."
So who are these influential ladies?
According to the source, Helic -- a Bosnian foreign policy expert and member of the U.K. House of Lords -- used to serve as a special adviser to Britain's former Foreign Secretary William Hague, the man "really responsible for teaching Angelina about Bosnia." Hague is also credited for being "a close confidante to Angelina" while she was directing her 2011 movie, In the Land of Blood and Honey, in Bosnia.
Helic advises Jolie on any political issues the actress chooses to be involved in, the source added, and travels abroad with her every time she makes a trip. She also educates Jolie on issues surrounding war-torn countries, mainly in regard to women and children. What's more, it was Helic, according to the source, who encouraged Jolie to get involved with the London School of Economics' Centre for Women, Peace and Security, where she's set to join the faculty as a guest professor in September 2017.
Like Helic, Dalton also has ties to Hague. She is the daughter of former ambassador Sir Richard Dalton, and worked in Hague's office as his speechwriter during the same time Jolie had worked with him.
Then, in 2015, Jolie, Helic and Dalton formed the Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic foundation, an organization which aims to help refugees, prevent violence against women and improve access to education. "We have been officially working together for a year and are very much looking forward to continuing our joint efforts on our shared international interests," Jolie told People of their partnership at the time. The trio also previously worked together on the Preventing Sexual Violence Initiative to help end war zone rape.
Jolie is currently staying in a secluded, $12 million beachfront mansion rental in Malibu, California, with the couple's six children -- Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8.
On Tuesday, Jolie's bodyguard was seen picking up pizza from D'Amore's Famous Pizza in the area around 6 p.m. According to an eyewitness, the bodyguard was alone and carried out four large pizza boxes, along with another bag of food. "We're not sure if it was just the kids eating it, and perhaps they over-ordered, but four pizzas for six kids averages to over five slices per kid," the eyewitness explained. "They must be really hungry!"
Earlier this week, an additional source told ET that Pitt, who was last seen in Croatia on Sept. 2, hopes to see his kids soon and wants to resolve his issues with Jolie "amicably and privately."
"Every marriage has priorities and they have been able to navigate them up until now," the source said. "Brad has different priorities. He's a leading actor with movies coming out. She has her things she wants to do and no one is saying that's wrong."
"Her global ambitions are part of the current problem," the source continued. "I don't think anyone wants their kids all over the place." Hear more in the video below.
Nick Jonas has entered the world of Jumanji!
The 24-year-old actor and musician showed up in full costume on Dwayne Johnson's Instagram feed on Tuesday, with the pair looking rugged as ever in front of a jungle scene. Johnson sports aviator shades, fingerless gloves and a utility belt with his cargo pants and button-up shirt, while Jonas appears accessory-less in similar cargo pants, button-up, and brown leather jacket.
"Officially welcoming my guy @NickJonas to #Jumanji. Great dude, great positive energy and very talented," Johnson captioned the shot. "He's gonna kill this role like I kill things with my bare hands."
PICS: First Look at Dwayne Johnson and Kevin Hart in 'Jumanji' Sequel! 
Stopping short of revealing any additional details about Jonas' role in the film, Johnson did go on to share a bit of behind-the-scenes color.
"The jungle awaits. The adventure continues. And ironically the one who sings the most on set is Jack Black," he teased.
Jonas has already posted a few funny snaps from his time on set, including one with a Snapchat-filtered Black. He also posted the same image shared by Johnson, with the caption: "DJ and I looking tough. JUMANJI it's going down... This cast, crew and creative team are incredible."
PICS: Nick Jonas Spotted With Playboy Model in Hawaii 
But it's not all work and no play for Jonas while he's on location in Honolulu, Hawaii. The "Bacon" singer was photographed soaking up the sun with a bikini-clad companion, 31-year-old Italian model Sarah Duque Lovisoni, earlier this week.
Before heading for the island, Jonas told ET that he’s expecting to have "a good time" on the project.
"[It has a] very different tone to this movie," he said. "So I want to keep doing things like that, keep popping up in different roles and surprising people."
Serena Williams became the latest athlete to demand change amid the rising racial tension between police and minority citizens through a powerful Facebook post on Tuesday.
The tennis champion, 35, gave a personal account of how recent stories of police brutality are giving her reason to worry about her own loved ones.
"Today, I asked my 18-year-old nephew (to be clear, he's black) to drive me to my meetings so I can work on my phone #safetyfirst," she wrote. "In the distance I saw a cop on the side of the road."
Williams explained that after checking to make sure her nephew was obeying the speed limit, she began thinking about Lavish Reynolds, who posted a video in July of herself in a car beside her dying boyfriend, Philando Castile, after she says police shot him four to five times.
"All this went through my mind in a matter of seconds," Williams continued. "I even regretted not driving myself. I would never forgive myself if something happened to my nephew. He's so innocent. So were all 'the others.'
"I am a total believer that not 'everyone' is bad. It is just the ones that are ignorant, afraid, uneducated, and insensitive that is affecting millions and millions of lives.
"Why did I have to think about this in 2016? Have we not gone through enough, opened so many doors, impacted billions of lives? But I realized we must stride on- for it's not how far we have come but how much further still we have to go.
"I then wondered than have I spoken up? I had to take a look at me. What about my nephews? What if I have a son and what about my daughters?
"As Dr. Martin Luther King said 'There comes a time when silence is betrayal.'
"I 
Won't 
Be 
Silent
Serena"
Meanwhile, many athletes have been kneeling during the national anthem before competitions in protest of police brutality. The trend began after San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began his silent protest during the NFL's preseason.
Earlier this month, Kaepernick vowed to donate the first $1 million he earns this season to community organizations to further help his cause.
As Rob Kardashian prepares for first-time fatherhood, the reality star is getting some useful parenting lessons from his big sis, Kim Kardashian West.
In a new preview from Rob & Chyna, Kim gives her brother a swaddling demonstration with a fake baby doll.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Rob Kardashian’s Baby Shower Drama
“They like to feel really tight like they’re still in the womb, for a few months,” explains 35-year-old Kim, who has two kids, North and Saint, with husband Kanye West.
“I’m going to need plenty more swaddling lessons ,” responds Rob, whose fiancée Blac Chyna is expecting a girl. “But I’m definitely happy with the progress that I’m making and I’m sure once I have my baby in my hands I’m going to figure it out and be a great dad.”
Following the baby wrapping demo, Kim adds the most important note about becoming a parent: “Nothing will really prepare you for this.”
While the siblings may be bonding over parenthood in the E! show, the clip comes amid new controversy between Rob and his sisters.
On Monday, the 29-year-old tweeted out his sister, Kylie’s, cellphone number along with an angry note calling out his family for not inviting Blac to a baby shower.
“Didn't invite the Mother of my child to a baby shower you all were trying to throw for me? You all must have lost your damn minds…” wrote the star.
However an insider tells ET that Rob misunderstood the whole baby shower situation and is convinced that his family doesn’t like his fiancée, when, in fact, they adore Blac.
“They absolutely adore her and thank her every day for coming into Rob’s life and changing him.  He’s such a better person with Chyna, and all the girls see that,” says our insider. “They didn’t like her in the beginning given the situation, but they have really grown to like her as a person and for Rob.”
The source adds that Chyna's romantic history with Kylie's current boyfriend, Tyga, is also causing Rob stress. “Chyna was one of Kim’s very close friends even before the entire Tyga situation. She is an amazing mom to King and has an amazing heart.  The entire situation is so bizarre, and Rob has always been insecure about that. He probably singled out Kylie because of that.”
See more on the drama in the video below.
Brad Pitt is focusing on his family.
The 52-year-old actor has announced that he will not be attending a premiere of Terrence Malick's Voyage of Time on Tuesday. The event would have been Pitt's first public appearance since Angelina Jolie filed for divorce last week.
"Terrence's Voyage of Time is an incredibly beautiful and unique experiential IMAX film for children and families chronicling the birth of time," he said in a statement obtained by ET.  "I'm very grateful to be part of such a fascinating and educational project, but I'm currently focused on my family situation and don’t want to distract attention away from this extraordinary film, which I encourage everyone to see."
Pitt narrates a 40-minute IMAX version of the film, while Cate Blanchett narrates the feature-length veresion. Pitt and Malick previously worked together on The Tree of Life.
Jolie filed for divorce from the Fury star on Sept. 19, requesting full physical custody of their six children, Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8.
While Jolie and the kids moved into a new Malibu, California, rental last week, a source told ET that Pitt is hoping to resolve his issues with his estranged wife "amicably and privately," and to see his children soon.
"Every marriage has priorities and they have been able to navigate them up until now," the source added. "Brad has different priorities. He's a leading actor with movies coming out. She has her things she wants to do and no one is saying that's wrong."
"Her global ambitions are part of the current problem -- I don't think anyone wants their kids all over the place," the source continued.
See more in the video below.
The year of shocking A-list splits continued on Monday, when Naomi Watts and Liev Schreiber exclusively confirmed to ET that they were separating after 11 years of dating.
The shocking split came as a surprise, given how happy 47-year-old Watts and 48-year-old Schreiber have appeared to be for more than a decade. The two had been dating since 2005, when they met at the annual MET Gala and hit it off. Schreiber told Esquire in June that their romance began when Watts invited him out dancing after the Gala, but she was surrounded by actors Benicio Del Toro and Sean Penn.
"I think I was nervous, and I felt very embarrassed being there, and self-conscious, because all these movie stars were hovering, and I felt ... awkward and out of my element," he admitted.
Though it turns out he had no reason to sweat -- Watts chased him down and gave him her phone number, making the first move.
"He got up to say he was leaving and I was like, 'Oh s**t.' Probably another couple years are going to pass by," the Australian actress told Allure in 2013 about the fateful moment. "I was wildly attracted to him and his work, so I said something cheeky as he was about to walk out. I said, 'Don't you want my digits?'"
"It was a lot more ballsy than I would ever normally be," she added.
The rest, of course, is history. Though the two never married, they are parents to their two sons -- 9-year-old Alexander "Sasha" Pete and 7-year-old Samuel "Sammy" Kai -- and often gushed about spending family time together.
Over the summer, the adorable foursome spent quality time in New York City, where they're based, checking out Hamilton on Broadway, and going for adventures in Central Park.
"My tribe," Watts sweetly captioned a family selfie earlier this year.
When ET spoke to Watts all the way back in January 2009 at a NYC screening of Schreiber's Defiance, she said she tagged along on set in the "freezing woods of Lithuania" just to spend time together with him, and a then newborn Sasha.
"We just had our first baby and we all wanted to stay together as a family, and trekked along," Watts explained. "It was an adventure for all of us."
And when ET was on the set of his Showtime hit, Ray Donovan, in June 2013, Schreiber admitted that filming in Los Angeles and away from his family was the toughest part of the gig.
"I think that's been the hardest part for me. It's been the hardest part not having the boys around all the time," Schreiber said. "What we've got to figure out is how to balance the work and family stuff, you know. I need to be around them to do this, so, we'll work it out."
Watts also admitted to ET that she struggled with balancing work and family when we spoke to her in March while she was promoting Divergent.
"Yeah, I mean there are days where you feel like you're supermom and doing really well and got it handled, and then there are days where you're like, 'Ah! I can't do this!'" she said candidly. "It's like any working mom, I think. You know, it's a balance."
But when it came to putting in effort in the romantic side of the relationship, Watts and Schreiber appeared to be doing perfectly fine, going on sweet date nights and supporting one another professionally. The two worked on their upcoming film, The Bleeder, together, and happily promoted the film earlier this month at high-profile events including the Toronto Film Festival and the Venice Film Festival.
Watts also proudly shared her support for Schreiber when the actor was part of the 2015 Oscar-winning film Spotlight, accompanying him to every awards show earlier this year.
When ET caught up with the two at the Screen Actors Guild Awards in January 2016, Schreiber said it was "date night" for the parents. As for how they made their longtime relationship work, he quipped, "We really like each other."
"It helps to like the person you're with," Watts echoed.
The spark between the couple appeared to still be going strong earlier this month, when Liev made it no secret that he was smitten with Watts' stunning good looks. The actor Instagrammed a pic of her donning a sexy thigh-high boots, writing,  "Ay dios mio..."
In a joint statement to ET on Monday, Watts and Schreiber said they're now looking forward to "a new phase" in their relationship, and joint-parenting.
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple," the statement read. "It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship."
Watch the video below for more on the shocking breakup.
Kylie Jenner and Tyga are bringing their PDA to the #WangSquad.
The couple, who first joined Alexander Wang's Fall/Winter 2016 fashion campaign earlier this month, get hot and heavy in the campaign's new video, released on Monday.
In the short clip -- posted to both Jenner's and Tyga's Instagram accounts -- the two walk hand in hand into a party DJ'ed by Skrillex.
Things get a little racy a few seconds in, as Tyga pins his ladylove up against a wall, kissing her on the neck. They later retreat to the bathroom, where the rapper watches Jenner dance with model Anna Ewers, while he lounges in a bathtub.
See the video below.
While Jenner and Tyga flaunt their PDA, things aren't all rainbows and butterflies for Rob Kardashian.
The  29-year-old reality star lashed out at Jenner on Monday night, tweeting out her phone number, and calling out the rest of his family for not inviting his pregnant fiancée, Blac Chyna, to a baby shower.
"Rob was told that the shower was still going on for him but Chyna couldn't make it, but he misunderstood the entire thing and overreacted," a source tells ET. "The girls knew Chyna couldn't make it, and Chyna was cool with it, but Rob thought something was being done behind closed doors to make sure she couldn't be there."
According to the source, Kardashian is still convinced that his family doesn't like Chyna, and harbors insecurities about Jenner's current relationship with Chyna's ex, Tyga. "The entire situation is so bizarre, and Rob has always been insecure about that," the source says.
See more in the video below.
Just weeks after Angelina Jolie visited Syrian refugees in Jordan, Lindsay Lohan paid a visit to an Istanbul hospital that is currently home to a refugee family from Aleppo.
Lohan -- who also brought gifts for the refugees -- grew especially close to Heya. "I can't forget Heya whom I met during my visit to the Hussein family. She couldn't care less about our gifts to her, whose mother has gone. She held me more and more tight when she sat on my lap," she recalled. "I sniffed her hair, took her hands and held her tight. I understood at that moment once again that we can do more for each other, that we should do more for each other. And we can start by giving support to #Turkey, which did its part in this huge human tragedy called Syria by welcoming three million refugees. We should do more, starting today."
The 30-year-old actress also quoted Mother Teresa in a prior post, writing: "Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love."
Turkey's youth and sports deputy minister, Abdurrahim Boynukalin, joined Lohan in Istanbul, and was adamant that the media was not contacted about her visit ahead of time. "The important thing is that a Hollywood star take this matter seriously and bring it to the world stage," he said (via Associated Press).
Jolie and Lohan aren't the only celebrities who have traveled to see refugees. In February, George and Amal Clooney met with three Syrian refugee families in Berlin, Germany. "You forget that these aren't just people who just left their country for no reason at all. These are people who have left there because of a terrible tragedy," the actor said. "It's very hard to dismiss a young child sitting on the ground crying when her mother is telling the story about how she left."
The two protesters who stormed the stage following Ryan Lochte and Cheryl Burke's performance during week one of Dancing With the Stars have officially been charged, ET has learned.
The City Attorney's Office filed criminal complaints on Monday against Sam Sotoodeh, 59, and Barzeen Soroudi, 25, who were wearing anti-Lochte T-shirts and did not have tickets to the ABC taping when they were booked for trespassing. Both men could face up to six months in jail and a $1,000 fine. Their arraignment is scheduled for next Tuesday in Los Angeles.
Sources close to production told ET that security at DWTS is still tight following the incident that occurred earlier this month.
"Security guards stand in the ballroom in the back of the audience, walking down the aisles and circling the dance floor during the commercial breaks," a source inside the ballroom confirmed.
ET caught up with dance pro Lindsay Arnold one day after the incident, who also confirmed there's been extra security on set.
"They actually placed security guards in all the aisleways, just to make sure nobody was trying to get up and move during the show or leave or come onto the stage," she explained.  "I'm so glad that they took more security measures, but I have always felt safe at Dancing With the Stars. I know that no matter what, we would have someone there to protect us and have our backs."
According to another production source, the other Lochte protesters in the audience obtained their tickets through On Camera Audiences, a website that provides free tickets to fans through a lottery-based system. One of the women involved in the protest even attempted to get a ticket for the following week, the source added, but was denied when her name was spotted.
The source further explained that the protester obtained her ticket for week one with her married name, and then attempted to get a ticket for week two using her maiden name.
Moments after the week one live show ended, ET's Nichelle Turner caught up with Lochte backstage, who was still in shock over what had happened onstage.
"Slowly, slowly been able to breathe," the 32-year-old swimmer, who is currently serving a 10-month suspension from USA Swimming following his Rio scandal, revealed. "Honestly, it felt like someone just reached inside, took my heart out and tore it to shreds."
To hear more, watch the video below.
When Rob Kardashian is upset about something, he's quick to take it to social media.
After the 29-year-old reality star tweeted out his little sister Kylie Jenner's phone number to his 6.6 million followers on Monday night -- and called out his family for not inviting his pregnant fiancée, Blac Chyna, to a baby shower -- a source exclusively tells ET what happened behind the scenes.
"Rob was told that the shower was still going on for him but Chyna couldn't make it, but he misunderstood the entire thing and overreacted," the source says. "The girls knew Chyna couldn't make it, and Chyna was cool with it, but Rob thought something was being done behind closed doors to make sure she couldn't be there."
Another part of the problem, Rob "is still convinced his family doesn't like Chyna," according to our source. However, that couldn't be further from the truth. Rob's sisters -- Kourtney, Kim, and Khloe Kardashian, as well as his younger sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner -- "absolutely adore" their future sister-in-law.
"[They] thank her every day for coming into Rob's life and changing him," the source says. "He's such a better person with Chyna, and all the girls see that."
As for the fact that Chyna was once engaged to 19-year-old Kylie's current boyfriend, rapper Tyga, and has a 3-year-old son with him, the source adds, "The entire situation is so bizarre, and Rob has always been insecure about that."
According to the source, Rob and Chyna's relationship has been strained in recent days, though she's not planning to leave him. Viewers of the couple's E! reality show, Rob & Chyna, have already gotten a peek into their sometimes explosive arguments.
"Rob and Chyna haven't been doing well lately," the source says. "Rob is in one of his funks right now."
Last month, a source close to Rob told ET that "mood swings" were common for the formerly reclusive reality star, after he deleted all of his Instagram posts from his official account -- including snaps of Chyna.
"He goes through his dark periods," the source said. "He gets depressed and doesn't want to really do anything, doesn't leave the house. It got better for a bit when he first started dating Chyna, but he's in a rut now."
Though last week, he showed off his more playful side, teasing his five sisters for all going blonde at one point by Photoshopping a picture of himself with his own sleek blond locks.
"Pretty sure I murdered this look… who you think wore it best?" he joked on Instagram.
Watch below:
Charlize Theron is getting into character.
The 41-year-old actress was spotted on set of her new film, Tully, in Vancouver, Canada, on Tuesday, sporting a much fuller figure.
A source confirms to ET that Theron, casually dressed on set in a pair of jeans and a baggy flannel, gained 35 pounds for her role as Marlo, a mother of three who has recently given birth. Just a few days earlier, the actress sported a baby bump on set.
Theron, clearly excited about her new film, shared a snap from set on Instagram on Friday.
"DAY 1: TULLY," she captioned the pic.
Theron sported a much slimmer figure just a few months ago at the premiere of The Huntsman: Winter's War in April.
While her character in Tully may have recently welcomed baby No. 3, Theron is happy with just two.
"Both of my hands are really full right now," she told ET of 3-year-old son Jackson and 1-year-old daughter August. "I think I'm good for now." 
"My son is like, 'Let's get a cat,' and I'm like, 'No! No! No more things that need to be fed! We're slowing down," she added.
See more in the video below.
Zayn Malik is not interested in his celebrity status.
"I hate the word celebrity," the 23-year-old singer tells HighSnobiety Magazine. "I think it's a dangerous road to go down, thinking of yourself as a celebrity, because then you somehow automatically think that label makes you superior to other people. Some people just want to hang around you because they know your name ... I can see through that bulls**t a mile off."
Malik first gained fame at 17 after auditioning for The X Factor UK and being placed in the newly formed boy band, One Direction. Malik later became the first member to leave said boy band in 2015 and released his debut solo album, Mind of Mine, earlier this year.
"I think to really 'make it' in a commercial sense, you have to be a bit of a faker," he says. "If you're not going to be fake, then you need a really thick skin."
Malik admits to feeling "a lot of pressure" in his public role, but maintains that he "never claimed to be a role model, I just make music."
Malik will channel his real-life experience into a new TV series called Boys, which will chronicle the ups and downs of a fictional boy band navigating the spotlight. Malik is producing the project with Dick Wolf for Universal Television.
Lindsay Arnold and Calvin Johnson are coming in hot for that mirror ball trophy!
The 22-year-old dancer and the former NFL pro slayed the competition during Monday's Dancing With the Stars "Face-Off Week," performing a Viennese Waltz to BJ the Chicago Kid's "Woman's World." The two received a score of 32 -- the highest score of the night! -- beating out Sasha Farber and Terra Jole to receive immunity from Tuesday's elimination round.
While chatting with ET, Lindsay said she "can't wait" to continue to show America why the former Detroit Lions wide receiver really does deserve to "win it all."
ET: Last time we chatted, you told me Calvin really, really wanted an 8. I think it's safe to say you guys exceeded that expectation last night with 8s across the board from the judges! How were you feeling when you got those scores?
Lindsay: We just wanted AN 8! We literally would have been totally fine with even just one. That was so awesome. I haven't been more proud of Calvin yet. He really worked hard this week on doing something that was a little bit uncomfortable for him. Our dance was more serious, sexy and loving. It showed a softer, gentle side, and that was hard for him -- it didn't come naturally. He really had to show his emotions, and he definitely pulled that off. I was so proud of him!
During your interview package, we got a glimpse of how you were teaching Calvin to be graceful. You were joking about how "it's like holding a football," but not "squeezing" your head. Honestly, watching you two onstage last night, it was hard to tell who was the pro. How did you get him to master that so quickly?
Oh my goodness, I love that! Thank you. I was kind of teasing him in rehearsals this week, and he responds really well to that. If he's squeezing me, I'll be like, "Calvin, why are you squeezing the crap out of my head?" I would just give him little metaphors, like, "This right now, is like you're holding an egg, and if you drop the egg, you get really bad scores." It's more fun that way, and less technical.
It showed in the judges scoring, but in your opinion, would you say this was your guys' best night yet?
I would say for sure this was our best night yet. He did something that I was NOT expecting! When we stepped out on the dance floor, his performance was better than I've ever seen it. He really turned it on and gave it everything he's got. It was our best dance, not just because of the judges' scores, but because it was a breakthrough for Calvin -- showing he has more sides to him and that he's willing to do what it takes to be the best dancer. He wants to win this thing!
I'm so impressed by how bright his personality shines on that stage. In last week's dress rehearsal, you were telling me he was really hard on himself and nervous. How was he feeling this week?
Calvin is a perfectionist. Even when he's doing a good job, he still wants to be better. It's great because it makes him work even harder, and for me, I don't have to pull that out of him -- he just wants to do it. Last night when he got the 8s he was so happy, and extremely proud of himself. But then immediately he was like, "OK, well, we gotta be better now. Now we have to get better than 8, we can't stay the same."
You guys are now clear frontrunners in this competition. How do you plan to stay at the top?
I don't think people expected us to be the highest scorers of the night. So, I think if we just keep continuing to do what we're doing, we’ll be fine. Calvin is getting better every single week, and I don't want that to stop -- I don't want him to get comfortable. This week, I'm really going to harp him on that. Yes, we're at the top, but that can be gone so quickly. He does not want to go down, so we're going to stay at the top and to do anything we can to prove he's improving every week.
Love that attitude! I know you had an early morning today, but did you do anything to celebrate your victory last night?
Me and my husband [Sam Cusick] got Mexican food and then we went home and went to sleep because I was so tired! But Calvin has a later call time than me today and it's his birthday on Thursday. He had some buddies in town that came to the show last night, and I think they went out and had some fun.
Prior to the actual face-off, you and Calvin were showing Sasha and Terra a little peek at what you had coming for them via Instagram. Hilarious! Can you tell us more about him lifting you like that?
When we found out we were going up against Sasha and Terra, we were super excited because we're so close with them and knew that it'd just be friendly competition. Because of that, we were like, "We gotta do a serious social media competition." We called them out and were like, "This is going down, bring it on!" Terra sent us a video of herself completely throwing down Sasha, manhandling him. I couldn't even attempt to try and do that with Calvin, so he's like, "Let's show Sasha what's up and I'll lift you."
Literally, it felt like it was no problem for him to lift me like that. Now I'm excited for us for when we get lifts, because I know we can do anything! He can just toss me around.
Viewers don't always get to see these funny, behind-the-scenes moments -- what's another story you can share with us from rehearsals this week?
I actually don't like that very much, that our entire rehearsal week is taken down to one minute and there's so many things that happen that are funny or heartfelt and fans don't always get a feel of that. But something funny that happened this week was, Calvin actually kind of beat me up on accident a couple of times. I got elbowed in the face, scratched and I think it's because we were getting more up close and personal and he's not used to that. Nothing serious, but it was funny because he felt so bad!
MORE: Lindsay Arnold Talks Married Life, Broadway and Bonding With Calvin Johnson
Before week one kicked off, you told me you thought Laurie Hernandez and her partner, Val Chmerkovskiy, were "the ones to beat." Now that we're a few weeks in, do you still think that's true?
I definitely still think they have a serious shot. Laurie is incredible and I think she's going to get better every single week, plus, Val is a great teacher. But I'm starting to really have my eyes on James Hinchcliffe and Sharna Burgess. It's crazy to watch him, because he just has this natural ability. He's such a nice guy with a good personality, and that helps as well.  Terra and Sasha too -- there's just something about her. She gives off such a good energy, and you want her to do well. She really is improving and defying all the odds against her.
The DWTS pro will be chatting with ET every Tuesday throughout the competition, and taking over ET's Snapchat (@etnow) each Monday. Got a question for Arnold or Johnson? Tweet me @desireemurphy_!
While Zach Galifianakis made headlines last week for having presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton on Between Two Ferns, the comedian says he has no plans to invite her opponent, Donald Trump, onto the Funny or Die talk show.
"Interview Donald Trump? I don't know if he would get it," Galifianakis told ET's Sophie Schillaci at the Hollywood premiere of his new movie, Masterminds, on Monday. "He has, like, the mind of an 11-year-old."
The Hangover star says the aspiring politician -- who hosted Saturday Night Live last November -- probably wouldn't get the gag. "I don't really think he would understand what's going on," he explained. "And plus, I would feel like it would um ...we don't have much in common."
Not missing a chance to make a joke, Galifianakis quipped, "I bet his breath stinks."
"By the way, I met him and I know his breath stinks," he added. "So do his sons."
During Monday night's presidential debate, Trump made it a point to call out his longtime feud with Rosie O'Donnell, after Clinton made reference to sexist and misogynistic comments he's reportedly made in the past. Insisting that he's only made remarks about the former View co-host and no other women, Trump touted, "I think everybody would agree that she deserves it, and nobody feels sorry for her."
O'Donnell, along with several celebrities, responded to Trump's comment, and also shared a clip from The View where she slammed him. "The five [minutes] orange an** can't seem to get over," she tweeted. "Tell the truth -- shame the Donald #ImWithHer."
Galifianakis interviewed President Barack Obama in March 2014, and ET spoke with Between Two Ferns director Scott Aukerman about what it was like having the commander in chief on the show. "We shot [the episode] the way we always shoot them, where it's very experimental and anything can kind of happen," Aukerman explained. "[Obama is a] really funny guy. I mean we've had some really funny people on the show but there's just something magnetic about him when he gets on screen ...He definitely had a lot of slams that he wanted to inflict upon Zach. He was ready. He was locked and loaded."


Aukerman said that the Obama administration was "really hands off" about the interview, and gave the crew the creative freedom they needed to make it a hilarious episode. "They really wanted it to be like a normal episode of Between Two Ferns, which means Zach insulting [Obama] and getting really strange," he noted. "They fully embraced that."
Justin Theroux is sympathizing with Brangelina’s six children following their shocking divorce news.
The 45-year-old actor spoke out on the high-profile split between Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt, his wife Jennifer Aniston’s ex-husband.
“As a child of divorce, all I can say is that's terrible news for those children and that's all you can really say," Theroux compassionately tells Business Insider with regard to Maddox, 15, Shiloh, 10, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8. "It's boring to sort of comment on anything else. People are having a bad time, that's horrible.”
Jolie and Pitt, who co-starred in 2005's Mr. and Mrs. Smith, quickly became an item after Pitt’s divorce from Aniston that same year, drawing tons of public interest around their personal lives.
Jolie filed paperwork to end their two-year marriage last Monday after 12 years together.
Despite the fact that Pitt and Aniston cut ties well over a decade ago, the Internet was quick to involve Theroux’s wife, imagining her reaction to her ex-husband’s second divorce.
MORE: Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux Have a Night in With Emily Blunt and John Krasinski
"There's an endless appetite for trash, apparently, though everyone would say that they don't have that appetite. But I think a lot of people do because people buy it," Theroux adds, calling it "nonsense" that Aniston’s name has been brought into the divorce drama, the site notes.
"But there are bigger things to b**ch about," he says. "It's shocking how much bandwidth things can take up when there are far more important things going on in the world."
When ET caught up with Theroux during his press tour for his latest film, The Girl on the Train, he couldn’t help but gush over how his relationship with Aniston works.
MORE: EXCLUSIVE: Justin Theroux on Why He and Jennifer Aniston Are So Good Together: 'We Get Along'
"We appreciate each other's sense of humor, we respect one another and we get along," he told ET's Nischelle Turner of the 47-year-old actress, whom he began dating in 2011 and wed last year.
"I know it sounds simple but it's true!" Theroux exclaimed.
For more on the happy couple, watch below:
Lupita Nyong'o has quickly become a fashion darling, so it's no surprise that she's completely stunned us while doing press for her new movie, Queen of Katwe.
The Kenyan-Mexican actress wore a number of African-inspired dresses, on-trend ensembles, and beautiful, traditional headpieces over the past week, each bolder and brighter than the next.
Nyong'o, 33, kicked off her solid fashion run at the Los Angeles premiere of Queen of Katwe on Sept. 20. Her lilac gown featured a large cut-out at the chest, pastel-striped piping, and a pleated skirt. She accessorized with a matching headpiece and Grazieka Gems lavender earrings and ring, completing her look with red lips and white nails.
"Feels like yesterday that I read the script for #QueenOfKatwe, a dream to be at our premiere last night!" she captioned a photo of her red carpet turn shared via Instagram.
The next night, she couldn't stop laughing during her appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live, where she made her mark in a strapless tan ensemble that included a floral printed skirt and turban with the same pattern.
EXCLUSIVE: Lupita Nyong'o Is 'Fantasizing' About Motherhood
The Oscar winner then went trendy during an official screening of Queen of Katwe by The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City on Sunday, shining in an off-the-shoulder white dress with black stripes. She kept the look simple, complementing the fun frock with intricate silver hoops and a ring.
Nyong'o continued the vogue streak with a purple printed dress and teal-infused truban during the official opening of the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture in Washington, D.C on Saturday. She even took a selfie with some of our favorite movers and shakers, including Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Ava DuVernay, Octavia Spencer, and Janelle Monae.
Later that evening, she swapped into an embroidered top (those parrots!) and colorful sequined skirt for the museum's gala, which she attended with her Queen co-star, David Oyelowo, and and Disney executive vice president of production, Tendo Nagenda.
You'd think all those events would be exhausting, but the 12 Years a Slave star stayed on-point during a long day of press on Monday, including stops at Good Morning America and the Sirius XM studio in New York City.
While we couldn't get enough of the gorgeous navy blue dress she wore with a yellow floral headwrap, Nyong'o was all about meeting "Broadway royalty" Kristin Chenoweth.
Nyong'o is truly our fashion queen!
The delightful actress has proven to be flawless many times before, but we're still (happily) stuck on that beatboxing riff she broke out for ET's Cameron Mathison during the Toronto International Film Festival earlier this month. Check out her skills in the video below.
Don't mess with Gigi Hadid.
The 21-year-old supermodel is speaking out in the latest issue of Lena Dunham's Lenny Letter about a scary incident last Thursday, when she defended herself after a man wrapped his arms around her waist and lifted her into the air as she was walking to her car in Milan, Italy. Hadid elbowed the man in the face and ran after him, a bold move that garnered plenty of praise.
"Honestly, I felt I was in danger, and I had every right to react the way I did," Gigi writes. "If anything, I want girls to see the video and know that they have the right to fight back, too, if put in a similar situation."
"Practicing self-defense is important so that when you’re in the moment, reacting from muscle memory comes more naturally to you than freezing up," she adds. "Confidence in your own ability to defend yourself comes with educating yourself about it, and is a massive advantage when in an unsafe situation."
Gigi says her own muscle memory -- which allowed her to quickly react to the situation -- comes from her days playing volleyball and boxing. The model also credits her mother, former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Yolanda Hadid, for teaching her the power of relying on her instincts.
"It just came out when he grabbed me -- it wasn't a choice," she explains. "I do have that fighter in me.”
However, Gigi reveals she was again outraged following the incident after reading an article about the situation.
"The first article that was posted about the incident was headlined: 'Not model behavior. Gigi aggressively lashes out and elbows fan in the face after he tries to pick her up. The supermodel angrily hit an unknown man before running to her car.' That's when I really got pissed," Hadid shares. "First of all, it was a woman who wrote the story with that headline. What would you tell your daughter to do? If my behavior isn’t model behavior, then what is? What would you have told your daughter to do in that situation?"
Gigi has since received plenty of social media support, but insists that her actions that day aren't something to be praised.
"It sounds cliché to say it, but in the moment, it wasn't heroic to me. It was just what I had to do," she explains. "It’s very touching to me that people see it that way. I know people are put in much worse situations every day and don't have the cameras around that provoke social media support. I just want to use what happened to me to show that it's everyone's right, and it can be empowering, to be able to defend yourself."

Last week, Gigi's mother took to Instagram to give props to her daughter's self-defense skills.
"Bravo Gigi for defending yourself and standing up for what is rightfully yours, your mind, body and soul should not be touched by anyone unless you want to… #GirlPower #Boundaries #Defense #BoxingSkills @gothamgym," Yolanda captioned a pic of Gigi elbowing her attacker.
Watch below:
Nick Jonas looked quite comfortable lounging next to his swimsuit-clad friend in Honolulu, Hawaii.
The 24-year-old star is currently on the island to film Jumanji, and enjoyed some down time with a beautiful brunette. A source tells ET that the mystery woman is 31-year-old Italian model Sarah Duque Lovisoni. In 2014, Lovisoni was the cover girl for  Playboy Italy, and she's also appeared in campaigns for Nikon, Wonderbra, La Perla , Alberto Ferretti and Roberto Cavalli. She currently lives between Los Angeles, California, and Milan, Italy.
Jonas has not had a serious girlfriend since his breakup from Olivia Culpo in June 2015. He has, however, been romantically linked to Kate Hudson, Kendall Jenner and Lily Collins, though he's never openly admitted to dating any of them.
The "Close" singer did reveal to ET that he was "still on the hunt" for a girlfriend back in March. "My perfect girl, I'm still trying to figure that out," he confessed. "When it comes to that stuff, I try to keep that as quiet as possible."
EXCLUSIVE: Nick Jonas Compares 'Living a Public Life' to Getting Hazed -- 'It's a Bit Like Being Unfairly Judged'
UPDATE: The Miami Police department has completed its investigation regarding the death of Real Housewives of Miami star Herman Echevarria, citing the cause of death as natural. 
_____________________________________________________
Real Housewives of Miami star Herman Echevarria was found dead in a Florida hotel room on Monday morning, ET can confirm.
The Miami Police Department tells ET that that they received a call at 11:32am from the Epic Hotel and Residence in Miami. “Upon arrival officers discovered that former Real Housewives of Miami Herman Echevarria Sr. was found deceased in his residence,” the MPD tells ET.
EXCLUSIVE: Camille Grammer on Returning to ‘Real Housewives’ Full-Time
Police officials believe Echevarria was living at the complex and added that they do not suspect foul play, with the case still under investigation.
Echevarria’s ex-wife Alexia Echevarria expressed her heartache at the news on Instagram.
“The Echevarria family is heartbroken over the sudden passing of our patriarch Herman Echevarria this morning,” she wrote. “He was a family man, a hardworking businessman, dedicated to helping others and a pillar of his community that was loved by everyone, who’s life he touched.”
The couple separated in 2015.
(Originally published Monday, September 26, 2016, at 5:15pm PT)
Naomi Watts was spotted walking her dog in New York City on Tuesday morning, one of the first sightings of the 47-year-old actress since ET reported exclusively that she and actor Liev Schreiber are separating after 11 years of dating.
Watts was makeup-free during the outing, dressed casually in a green jumpsuit, a black blazer, and high-top Vans sneakers. The Australian star remained low-key in her aviator sunglasses, carrying a simple black Gucci bag.
Watts is currently filming her Netflix series Gypsy in NYC. She plays therapist Jean Holloway, who becomes too immersed in the lives of her patients.
Schreiber and Watts had been dating since 2005, and share two sons together -- 9-year-old Alexander "Sasha" Pete and 7-year-old Samuel "Sammy" Kai. In a joint statement to ET on Monday, the pair said they were looking forward to joint parenting.
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple," the statement reads. "It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship."
PICS: Biggest Breakups of 2016
The split is surprising given that earlier this month, the two were still very much together, holding hands on the red carpet of the Toronto Film Festival as they promoted their film, The Bleeder, which they both star in.
Justin Theroux had his Girl On a Train co-star Emily Blunt and her husband John Krasinski over to his and Jennifer Aniston's New York City home during the presidential debates on Monday night.
Blunt and Krasinski, who recently welcomed their second child, were spotted arm-in-arm and smiling as they left their friends' place.
It's likely the couples were watching the debates together, as Theroux made a slight dig at moderator Lester Holt on Instagram, comparing him to the Where's Waldo? cartoon. He hashtagged the post with "#WhereIsLesterHolt."
Earlier that day, ET chatted with both Blunt and Theroux about working together on Girl On a Train, and they shared how Theroux came to learn that Blunt was pregnant on set. The 45-year-old actor actually guessed that his co-star was expecting after she refused to perform a very simple stunt that required her to jump up from the floor and run a few feet across the room.
"She was like, 'Yeah, I don’t think I’d be sitting on the floor. I think I’d be leaning against the counter,'" Theroux recalled. "We were like, 'No, it makes total sense for you to be sitting on the floor. And then you just get up and run.' She was like, 'Nah, I’m not gonna do that. I’m gonna twist my hip or something.'"
EXCLUSIVE: Emily Blunt Gushes About Husband John Krasinski -- 'He's the Perfect Man'
The Leftovers star said he told her he didn’t understand how she was "throwing Tom Cruise across the room [in Edge of Tomorrow] and going toe-to-toe with Benicio Del Toro [in Sicario]," but she wouldn't do this simple stunt.
"Later that day, we went back to my place and she was not having a cocktail and I asked, 'Are you pregnant?' And she was like, 'Shhh!!' And we had a big hug over that," he recounted. "It was a little secret we had to keep for a while until it became obvious."
"Justin knew because he is my friend," Blunt explained. "And he guessed I was being a bit wossy about some of the stunts. He pulled me aside and was like, 'Are you pregnant?' And I was like, 'Yes.'"
The 33-year-old actress added that there was a scene that she feared her baby bump would show. "Towards the end of the shoot, where I was starting to show, we were doing a scene in the bathtub, and that's when I had to tell [director Tate Taylor]," she recounted. "I pulled him aside and I said that you need to shoot this in a very specific way because of this and he was like, 'Oh my God!' Like, he had no idea."
When chatting with ET, Theroux also gushed over Aniston, revealing what makes their marriage work. "We appreciate each other's sense of humor, we respect one another and we get along," he said. "I know it sounds simple but it's true!"
Patton Oswalt is talking about a heartbreaking subject with a little bit of humor.
The writer/actor appeared on Conan on Monday, where he talked about how he's coping with the death of his wife, Michelle McNamara.  McNamara died in her sleep in their Los Angeles home in April. She was 46 years old.
"I mean, I'm here," Oswalt, 47, told host Conan O'Brien when asked how he's been holding up. "It feels weird to say it -- I'm a widower."
"I'm like every bad 1980s sitcom where there's a dad raising a kid by himself and the mom is somehow ... except my 1980s sitcom sucks, there's no punch lines," he added. "There's a lot of insomnia, there's a lot of me eating Cheetos for dinner. I'm waiting for my daughter to turn to the camera and go, 'No wonder I'm in therapy.'"
The recent Emmy-winner has been focusing on helping his 7-year-old daughter, Alice, deal with the death of her mother.
"She's handling it way better than I am," Oswalt admitted. "Having to tell her her mother passed away is the worst thing I will ... I can't imagine ever going through anything [like that]. Like, when death comes for me, I'm gonna go, 'Yeah, whatever, I've had the worst, bring your stupid sythe and your hood, whatever.'"
Oswalt, who's still wearing his wedding ring, says he's been getting by with the help of his family and Alice's school.
"She wanted to go back to school immediately," he recalled. "Her school, and Michelle's family, and my family basically saved my life those first three months."
Watch the video below to see how Oswalt was able to get through Mother's Day, and the hilarious way an elderly Polish woman almost ruined everything.
Earlier this month, Oswalt dedicated his Emmy win for Outstanding Writing for a Variety Special to his beloved late wife.
"Every bit of growth that I've had in my career, especially in my writing and my performing, came because I met Michelle McNamara," the Veep actor told reporters backstage. "Because I met and married this woman who just was so much wiser and self-actualized and aware of life than I was. I had convinced myself that I was aware and self-actualized and mature, but then I met the real deal."
"To have that ripped out of my life the way that it has this year -- I'm not trying to say that this is meaningless, but everything seems like the lights have been turned down 50 percent on everything since she's gone," he continued. "It's just going to be a long, long time before I can be the kind of person she made me again."
Watch below:
The journey is just beginning on This Is Us.

The surprising twist was intentionally kept under wraps, prompting a visceral, real-time reaction among viewers. It paid off. More than 10 million people tuned into last Tuesday’s debut, making it the first breakout hit of the young television season. For creator Dan Fogelman, the work is just beginning.
“It’s a good day,” he told ET the day after the premiere, admitting the months of secret-keeping weighed on him “a little bit.” “The next three episodes are really, really strong and there’s an emotional response to the characters and the material. Hopefully, in its own unique way, that can draw people in a different way to TV, like the way I was drawn to it as a little kid.”

ET: Viewers had an emotional response to the first episode, especially with that gut-wrenching ending. Is that type of response something you’re actively working towards?
Dan Fogelman: Definitely not. We’re not sitting and going “Let’s try and make this scene emotional or let’s have one emotional [moment] in every act of the show.” It’s really not as calculated as that -- it’d be impossible to do it. I’m constantly surprised as to which of the moments really move me and they’re not the moments that I’d expected. At a certain point a show kind of locks into what it is. I think we’ve done that very early here in our first couple of episodes.
There’s the sense from the premiere that things eventually work out for the family. Is that element of hopefulness something that will continue?
These characters are at a crossroads and they all get these little victories [in the premiere], and life isn’t all like that. Moving into the series, there are darker moments and I think even in the more uncomfortable and complicated moments, people are going to recognize versions of themselves or people they know. If we can make that happen and then also make people laugh and make people get upset with characters and love characters [then we’ve done our job].
It’s been said that each episode will continue to have an “a-ha” moment or an unexpected revelation. How challenging is it to realistically keep that going?

Now that we know there are two different timelines, how will you balance the storylines? Is what’s established in the first episode the blueprint going forward?
We shake it up quite a bit. Our typical episode is similarly structured to the pilot in that you’ve got these four storylines that you float between. Especially as we go further into the season, we are going to break our pattern a little bit. We might do episodes that focus only on one storyline per episode. The Mandy-Milo storyline will jump around in time so in the first five episodes, you see them eight years in the future, you see them right where they were at the pilot and you see them before they had kids. By the end of the first season, you’ll understand the history of this family but we won’t be telling it all linearly.
Let’s break down what’s in store for each of the characters. First up, Randall. What can you tease about his journey?
As you get to know Randall, Sterling’s character, he’s a guy who’s got it all going. He’s a perfectionist and he takes everything he does very seriously and suddenly there’s this man who’s throwing him off. I just finished watching the fourth episode where he’s really talking to him about [being raised by a white family]: “I will not apologize for the fact that I was raised by white people and I have a father I love, a white father.” We’ve talked with a lot of people about adoption and interracial adoption and he’s dealing a lot of different issues in that regard as well.
How sick is Randall’s biological father, William (Ron Cephas Jones)?

Are the origins of Kate’s struggles with her weight something that will be explored?
In the opening scene in our second episode you see that this has been a first ballot issue for Kate her entire life since adolescence. At this precise moment in her life, it’s been her lifelong battle and she’s made a choice to attack it in a different way, head-on. It gets a lot of real estate in the early parts of the first season, but we also do a tremendous amount of other stuff with her as the season goes on.
What lies ahead for Kevin in his post-Man-ny career?
Big, big changes for Kevin. Here he’s made this big stand and quit his show and the second episode is very much focused on the real-world aftermath of what’s going to happen now. Katey Sagal plays his agent, a high-powered take on Ari Emanuel, and Brad Garrett plays the president of the network. Kevin has a come-to-Jesus moment where he has to sit down with these people and learn what the reality of quitting a national television show in a public manner [is] -- and it’s not pretty. It leads into a bunch of decisions that completely changes his life and career.
Is there a chance we’ll see all the characters and actors -- specifically Mandy, Milo, Chrissy, Justin and Sterling -- interacting in the same scene in some way?

Has it been established that Jack is dead in the present day and/or Rebecca is still alive, or is that also its own mystery?
That is not established. That is still [a question]. As of the end of this pilot, there’s been no talk as to where Jack and Rebecca are -- or not.
This Is Us airs Tuesdays at 10 p.m. ET/PT on NBC.
Apparently you can wear almost anything to the polls, but you can’t wear nothing! In a new Funny or Die sketch released on Tuesday, the morning following the first presidential debate, Katy Perry tries to inform her fellow Americans about their rights regarding voter attire.
“You know, November 8th is Election Day, and I’ve got some great news,” the “Firework” singer tells the camera, rolling out of bed in American flag PJ’s with popcorn and lollipops stuck in her hair. “This year, you can look like s**t when you vote.”
She goes on to talk about the different looks Americans could rock on their way to cast their vote.
“I’ve briefly scanned the Constitution and nowhere does it say you can’t just roll out of bed and come to the polls in whatever state you woke up in,” she said. “In the name of democracy, any just-out-of-bed look is A-OK!”
There were several rumpled looks to choose from, but when it came to Perry, she didn’t hesitate to share she prefers to sleep in the buff.
“If you’re like me, I sleep naked. Let those babies loose,” the pop star declared, ripping her clothing off.
MORE: Katy Perry Chugs Sprinkles in Bizarre Video Because Some Things Are Beyond Explanation -- Watch!
Unfortunately, the police didn’t quite agree with Perry’s definition of the Constitution. They arrested her and thrust her into a cop car next to a nude Joel McHale.
“You too?” he asks.
“Scratch that, gotta wear clothes. My bad,” Perry shouts out the car window. “See you at the polls November 8th!”
Perry teased the video drop late Monday, telling her millions of followers, “Tomorrow, I use my body as click bait to help change the world.”
For more on Perry’s political views, watch below:
It’s no secret that Warren Beatty was quite the ladies man before his 1992 marriage to Annette Bening. But in a new interview with AARP The Magazine, Beatty,79, opened up about his decision to finally settle down.
“I waited a long time to be married,” he told the mag.  “When you don’t get married until you’re 54…well, as Arthur Miller said, ‘it comes with the territory.’’
The pair met on the set of the movie  Bugsy, but Beatty noted that there was no on-set romance between them.
“During the making of the movie, there was no suggestion as to a future relationship,” he noted. “I mean, there was in my head, but otherwise, no.”
Beatty told Bening, “You don’t have to worry about me.”  And she said, “Well, I didn’t ask.”
Bening also got candid about her husband, saying, “There’s always a part of what he’s doing that’s private, but we talk a lot about everything. Some people pay lip service to listening to others and they’re really not listening.  He does.  He loves actors, and while he’s shooting he’s always interested in what people are saying.  He’s a terrific audience.”
Now Beatty is preparing to return to the screen in a film he both wrote and directed, Rules Don’t Apply, which also stars Bening.
“I was like, ‘I am ready to kill you.  Just make the movie, please, please, please,’” Bening joked of having Beatty home for the past six years. “But like other people at his level of talent, he does it when he’s ready.  And no one’s saying anything made a difference, including me.”
Before his life as a committed husband and father a 2010 biography claimed the Oscar winner had bedded 12,775 women, a number which Beatty contests.
“Think about it, sleeping with 12,775 people,” he told the mag. “That would mean not just that there were multiple people a day, but that there was no repetition.”
MORE: Couples Who Can’t Break Up or We’ll Lose Faith in Love
And even if his number wasn’t quite that high, the interviewer pointed out of his many conquests, few have publicly bashed him (unless you count that whole “You’re So Vain” debate).
”Look, I never misled anyone,” he said of his past partners.  “And…and I’m a nice guy.”
Rules Don’t Apply hits theaters on Nov. 23 and also stars Alec Baldwin, Ed Harris, and Lily Collins.
Nick Gordon was found legally responsible for the death of his girlfriend, Bobbi Kristina Brown, earlier this month, but her father, Bobby Brown, still isn't satisfied.
During an interview with pastor T.D. Jakes, which will air on Wednesday, Brown says that he's hoping that criminal charges will also be filed against Gordon. "I know some things that happened to my daughter. I don't know the specifics of what happened, but as the judge has said, he is legally responsible," Brown explains. "I know some things that happened to my daughter, but it's up to the D.A. now to do his job."
He adds, "The D.A. still hasn't taken out criminal charges on Nick Gordon, and that's what I'm waiting for him to do. That's when I think I will get some closure."
Brown does say he's found some peace. "Just knowing that he's legally responsible for my daughter's death has given me a bit of calmness to waiting for the D.A.," he continues. "There's a lot of strange things that will come out in the criminal charges against Nick."
Bobbi Kristina was found face down in a bathtub in her Georgia home on Jan. 31, 2015. After spending nearly six months in a coma, she died in hospice care on July 26, 2015, at the age of 22. The Fulton County medical examiner listed Brown's official cause of death as pneumonia in March, stating that she died of complications caused by her face being immersed in water, along with drug intoxication.
"My daughter was afraid of tubs because of what happened to her mom. So I know she wouldn't have gotten in the tub," says Brown. "I mean it's crazy because the tub wasn't even full of water. It had a dustpan in it, in the bottom of the tub."
MORE: Nick Gordon's Former Lawyer Responds to Bobbi Kristina Brown Civil Case Ruling
Gordon has never been criminally charged in Brown's death. Last August, his lawyers released a statement regarding the wrongful death civil lawsuit filed against him. "Nick has been heartbroken and destroyed over the loss of his love and it's shameful that such baseless allegations have been presented publicly," the statement reads. "Nick has engaged civil counsel and intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously and expose it for what it is: a fictitious assault against the person who loved Krissy most."
The look of a legend! Harry Styles embodied his rock forefathers in a new shoot for AnOther Man magazine. The 22-year-old former boy bander looked effortlessly cool in the three different covers, each inspired by a different era.
MORE: R.I.P. One Direction? Harry Styles Reportedly Signs Solo Contract With Columbia Records
In one he looks like a young Beatle, complete with floppy hair and a goofy grin. In the second, he channels a long-haired Mick Jagger with a stylish red coat, looking nearly identical to the Rolling Stones rocker. And in the final one, Styles is rocking a structured cut with a fuzzy jacket and leather choker necklace like many musicians from the ‘80s.
The One Direction alum has been taking some time away from music while filming his new Christopher Nolan war movie, Dunkirk, which will hit theaters in July 2017.
Back in June, Billboard reported that Styles had signed a solo recording contract with Columbia Records – the label that previously represented his former group.
Zayn Malik was the first to leave 1D in March 2015 and has since released his own album.
Though the band said that they were only taking some time apart to focus on their own projects, many fans believe they have officially split.
A source previously denied the rumors to ET, saying, "[Their break] remains a hiatus with the intention of reuniting at some point."
Watch the video below for more details on One Direction!
If charades wasn’t challenging enough, Jimmy Kimmel decided to throw a wrench in the game on Monday, when he invented “Long Distance Charades.”
Standing on the roofs of two buildings in Hollywood, Kimmel and actor Zach Galifianakis competed against Kristen Wiig and Owen Wilson in the challenging game.
Kimmel and Wiig stood on one rooftop while Galifianakis and Wilson were far away on the other roof, watching their partners through binoculars. They took turns acting out various movie titles as Kimmel’s longtime assistant Guillermo Rodriguez refereed using a megaphone.
As it turns out, it’s incredibly difficult to play charades when you’re an entire city block away from your partner.
Galifianakis was unable to guess Driving Miss Daisy and Wiig missed Wilson’s Aliens. But Knocked Up and Top Gun were successfully identified, leading to a final “Sudden Death Round."
Watch the clip to see who won the game! Plus, to see celebrities reading some new “Mean Tweets,” watch the video below!
Amy Schumer’s got Lena Dunham’s back. After the Girls creator was criticized for comments she made during a joint interview with Schumer about New York Giants player Odell Beckham Jr., the Trainwreck star has been mostly quiet about the controversy.
But on Monday night, Schumer appeared on Watch What Happens Live where host Andy Cohen grilled her about the incident during the show’s “Plead the Fifth” segment. After the Comedy Central star refused to talk about whether Inside Amy Schumer will return for another season, she was forced to answer Cohen’s question about Dunham’s recent faux pas.
“I think people definitely target Lena,” she said, defending the HBO standout. “I think everybody has room to learn more about other cultures and racism, what’s offensive and what’s not. I spoke up a little bit just ‘cause I want to get my girl’s back. I love Lena. I know she has the best intentions. I think we all have room to learn.”
Dunham publicly apologized the Beckham Jr. after she commented on how he wasn’t interested in having sex with her at the 2016 Met Gala. The Girls creator was accused to furthering black stereotypes and actress Gabrielle Union recently revealed that she spoke with Dunham about the incident.
Union also noted that she’d like to discuss the topic of racial inequality with Schumer, who was previously under fire for tweeting about men of color cat calling her on the street.
MORE: Lena Dunham Apologizes to Odell Beckham Jr., Clarifies Her 'Narcissistic' Comments After Twitter Backlash
Though the stand-up comic didn’t directly address Union’s recent comments, she did say, “I can’t think of anybody I’m racist against. You know what I mean? When I get accused of that, I’m just like, ‘You got the wrong Jew. You got the wrong Jew. You’re barking up the wrong Jew!”
For more on Union’s comments, watch the video below!
Goodbye blue, hello red! Kate Middleton wowed in a bold cherry red dress on Monday night at a reception during the Royal Tour of Canada with her husband, Prince William.
The Duchess of Cambridge paired the beautiful gown, which was designed by British designer Preen, with Queen Elizabeth’s diamond maple leaf broach, red heels, and a matching clutch purse.
At the reception, which was held in British Columbia’s Government House, Prince William added a fourth ring to the Black Rod staff, which symbolizes the First Nations in the province.
Earlier in the day, the royals trekked through the rain for a visit to the Great Bear Rainforest in Bella Bella, Canada. They were welcomed with a series of performances by local children.
Middleton, who has been donning mostly royal blue ensembles, also rocked a pair of brown rain boots, carrying a clear umbrella as it poured down throughout the day.
The Duke and Duchess' two adorable children – Prince George and Princess Charlotte – have accompanied them on their tour, though they have not attended any public events yet.
For more on the royals’ visit to Canada, watch the video below!
John Stamos is looking to bring the complicated and troubled life of late record producer Lou Pearlman to the small screen for a mini-series examining the turbulent and controversial career of the businessman turned music mogul.
Stamos was part of a production team that bought the rights to The Hit Charade: Lou Pearlman, Boy Bands, and the Biggest Ponzi Scheme in U.S. History, and the Fuller House star said it's a project he's been "shopping around" for quite a while.
"I've had it for a long time actually. And then he just died and so it made the news again," Stamos, 53, told ET correspondent Elvis Duran at the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas, Nevada on Saturday. "It's a very difficult sell."
Pearlman  gained fame in the entertainment industry as a music mogul, organizing and developing the careers of boybands like *NSYNC and the Backstreet Boys, among many other hit artists.
After a few years, he was eventually sued by nearly every musician he'd ever managed and was accused of orchestrating a multi-million dollar Ponzi scheme. After evading authorities, Pearlman was eventually caught and sentenced to 25 years in prison on charges of money laundering and making false statements during a bankruptcy proceeding, among others.
Pearlman died of a heart attack in August at the age of 62 while still incarcerated at the Federal Correctional Institution in Miami, Florida.
"He was a deplorable human," Stamos admitted, "but he was, you know, P.T. Barnham. I mean, he was the first one to put bands together. It was before American Idol when he was doing that. So it's a fascinating story and, of course, there's the $500 million dollar Ponzi scheme involved in it."
Stamos, who said that he thought the story would work best as a mini-series, shared his idea for how to tell the grand tale, explaining, "I think it's best through one of his assistant's eyes… but there's so many different ways to tell the complicated story of this man and the music."
As for casting Pearlman, Stamos explained that he originally wanted Philip Seymour Hoffman for the role. However, after the Oscar winner's death in February 2014, he was forced to move in a different direction.
"We talked to Zach Galifianakis for a little bit," Stamos revealed, adding that the project is "just heating up again," in the wake of Pearlman's death.
For more on the life and death of the embattled music manager, watch the video below.
Mandy Moore’s early career as a pop singer painted her as a wholesome girl next door, sweet as the “Candy” in her hit single, but it turns out, those days in the music biz lead to her getting a pretty risque tattoo!
“About ten years ago, I was on tour with my band...when you go city to city you’re on a bus, but you get a day room [in a hotel],” Moore recalled on Late Night with Seth Meyers on Monday. “I was the only girl, so I had my own room to shower and all the guys in my band shared a room.”
“Their one rule was nobody was allowed to do...that thing in the shower,” she continued, hinting around it, before Meyers assured her, “You can say masturbate.”
“It became this big joke, because one of my band members was like, ‘I don’t want babies on my feet,’” Moore explained. “And so we created a song called ‘Babies on My Feet’ that we sang on stage every night. No one had any idea what we were talking about.”
“And to commemorate the tour, we all got babies on our feet,” the actress and singer revealed, showing off the tiny sperm she has tattooed on her left foot.
Moore recalled a few times -- mostly during pedicures -- when she has been confronted about her NSFW tat, but perhaps no time was more embarrassing than when her stunt double in the horror-thriller 47 Meters Down had to be branded with the same ink.
“That moment when you realize the silly joke tattoo you got with your band 8 years ago means that your sweet stunt double has to have it drawn on too..... #sorryzoe #babiesonmyfeet #alsofeetaregross,” Moore captioned an Instagram pic last June.
That will be quite the tattoo to explain to her future children! Check out the video below to find out why Moore’s role in NBC’s new heartfelt drama, This Is Us, has set her biological clock ticking.
Olympic gymnast Laurie Hernandez dominated the dance floor on Monday's Dancing With the Stars when she and partner Val Chmerkovskiy pulled off a sultry, passionate tango that earned them the week's second-highest score.
The mature routine was a far cry from the 16-year-old gold medalist’s adorable, bubbly public persona, and Hernandez told ET after backstage that her costuming gave her the confidence she really needed.
"It was really hard but the outfit and the makeup really helped," Hernandez shared with ET's Angelique Jackson after the show. "They were doing my makeup and they did a dark lip and they straightened my hair and I was like, 'Oh, this is very sassy! Well, we're doing the tango!'"
Between DWTS, publicity engagements and performing with the other members of the Olympic Final Five on the Kellogg's Tour of Gymnastics Champions, Hernandez has a full plate. However, she says she's managing to balance it all by "remembering my passion for dancing."
While it's unlikely that the celebrated Olympic star will find herself on the DWTS chopping block any time soon, she admitted that there's always that fear that you might get sent home early.
"[I] never even want the chance of going home because I love dancing," she said. "I love doing Dancing With the Stars, and I've always loved this show, so I'm just glad I get another week to do what I love."
On Saturday, while performing with her fellow Team USA gymnasts, Hernandez got the chance to meet one of her idols, singer Tori Kelly, and the excited fan could barely contain herself.
Hernandez dished on the adorable moment, which was captured on video and shared to Instagram, telling ET, "I lost all chill. I was so embarrassed."
"Any chill I had built up in the past 16 years has just left. Oh my god!" Hernandez said. "She added me back on Snapchat so I think we're kinda friends now."
For more on Hernandez's string of stunning DWTS performances during the first three weeks of season 23, check out the video below.
Donald Trump doubled down on his infamous negative remarks about Rosie O'Donnell during Monday's presidential debate against Hillary Clinton, and many on Twitter were quick to respond to the Republican nominee's controversial statements.
After Clinton called Trump out on sexist and misogynistic comments he's reportedly made in the past -- including calling women pigs and slobs, according to the Democratic nominee -- Trump denied the claims, saying that he's only made comments like that about O'Donnell.
"I think everybody would agree that she deserves it," Trump added, "and nobody feels sorry for her."
As it turns out, there are quite a few people who don't agree with Trump's comments, including Saturday Night Live star Leslie Jones, former View co-host Sherri Shepherd, comedian Billy Eichner and Girls star Lena Dunham, among others, who all showed O’Donnell love on Twitter while bashing Trump's rhetoric.
As for the 54-year-old stand-up comic and actress, she didn't even tune in to the presidential showdown, opting to spend her evening with her young daughter, Dakota.
"While not watching…" O'Donnell wrote on Twitter alongside a video of her adorably negotiating the use of an iPad at bedtime with her pajama-clad little girl. O'Donnell titled the cute clip, "The art of the deal - dakota style."
She did, however, respond rather emphatically to one Twitter user who mentioned the incident, writing, "HE WILL NEVER BE PRESIDENT."
Later that night, O'Donnell also shared a clip from The View where she slammed Trump. "The five [minutes] orange an** can't seem to get over -- tell the truth -- shame the Donald #ImWithHer," she tweeted.
Emily Blunt is opening up about why her husband of six years, John Krasinski, is the “perfect man.”
“He is my perfect man, you know, he is funny and warm and bright and confident and a sort of emboldening person to be around,” the actress gushed to ET while promoting her new film, The Girl on the Train.
“I think it depends on your idea of perfection,” the mom of two added, when asked if she believes there’s such a thing as the perfect couple. “It shouldn't be an ethereal thing that you can't reach. I think that everyone's version of perfect is different.”
EXCLUSIVE: John Krasinski Dishes on Baby No. 2
Adding to Krasinski’s perfection, Blunt praised his parenting skills to their two daughters, 2-year-old Hazel and 3-month-old  Violet.
The doting dad is “so much more adventurous,” than Blunt, she admitted.
“[He will] throw Hazel on the back of a bike and take off somewhere and go on some crazy adventure. He is so hands-on and so committed.”
With the 33-year-old actress currently promoting The Girl on the Train, the couple are juggling work commitments with family life, with Blunt saying she aims to not be away for more than two days.
Luckily, when the gorgeous actress is traveling, her eldest daughter steps into big sis mode!
“She loves [being a big sister]” said Blunt. “She is so sweet with her."
When the family do get quality time at home, Blunt enjoys cooking and is looking forward to her girls being old enough to enjoy her “dream” weekend meal tradition.
“Right now I have a 2-year-old, who is a little bit of a fussy eater, so it's not like I can cook the same thing for her that we would eat. But my plan is to do [what we did] growing up, which was that every Sunday we would do a Sunday roast – cook it all day, then eat it around 4pm or 5pm. It was such a tradition that we all looked forward to.”
See Krasinski, 36, talk about his daughters’ sweet bond in the video below.
According to their respective reality shows, Rob Kardashian has recently been reconnecting with his famous family as he prepares to welcome his first child with fiancee Blac Chyna. However, on Monday night, the 29-year-old reality star took to Twitter to seemingly unleash on the rest of the Kardashian clan.
“Didn't invite the Mother of my child to a baby shower you all were trying to throw for me ‼️?” Rob tweeted. “You all must have lost your damn minds.”
Rob also tweeted out a phone number he claimed belongs to his sister, Kylie Jenner, writing “I ain't hacked either this is rob dog lol.”
None of the Kardashians have yet responded to Rob’s tweet, though Chyna did take her her own Snapchat account earlier on Monday to share a text image that stated simply, “My baby shower is Sunday.”
The tweets come just a few hours after Rob tweeted fellow reality star Yolanda Hadid, thanking her for kind words she shared, encouraging him to “keep on being the real deal.”
See more of the sweet interaction in the video below.
The first presidential debate between Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and Republican nominee Donald Trump kicked off on Monday, and the 90-minute showdown had devotees of both political parties flocking to Twitter in an attempt to break the internet with a monsoon of commentary, angry sarcasm and mockery.
Before the candidates even took the stage, celebs were sharing their excitement (and trepidation) for the long-awaited battle of words between the polarizing figures, and there was no shortage of stars who were weighing in on how they thought the debates might go.
"The cool thing is we now have the chance to watch 2 qualified & worthy candidates in a thoughtful dialogue," Girls creator Lena Dunham joked. "#JKLOLWTF #Debates2016."
Republican stalwart and former Presidential nominee Newt Gingrich was somewhat more optimistic about Trump's chances, sharing, "@realDonaldTrump will pass the test of being adequately competent & will get a big boost in acceptability."
Some stars were less hopeful about the night's events, like model and Lip Sync Battle host Chrissy Teigen, comedian Billy Eichner, director Adam McKay and others.
As the debate progressed, celebs took Trump to task for his debate tactics -- which mostly involved yelling over Clinton's points and denying everything she said about him -- while moderator Lester Holt was criticized for failing to keep Trump from doing exactly that.
Laurie Hernandez is “Cute Laurie” no more!

Hernandez was initially worried that her youth may be a detriment this week, as she and pro partner Val Chmerkovskiy were given the tango, a more “intense” dance that requires a lot of passion. Going up against Derek Hough and Marilu Henner, 64, certainly didn’t ease her nerves!
“It sounds like a whole other level of woman that I don’t know about,” Hernandez said of the tango, with a nervous laugh. She reacted with widened eyes after lingerie was bandied about during a wardrobe fitting and couldn’t contain her giggling after Chmerkovskiy told her to put her hand on his face during rehearsals.

When it came time to dance the tango, however, there was absolutely no sign of Cute Laurie.

The week of rehearsals paid off. Hernandez and Chmerkovskiy snagged a 31 out of a possible 40 and beating the Henner-Hough pairing for immunity. (Carrie Ann Inaba deducted a point for including a lift in the routine. So in reality, Hernandez’s score could have been a 32.)

“I was struggling to put in that emotion so I was like, I gotta pretend I’m smelling a really good quesadilla,” Hernandez adorably revealed.
Oh, to be young!
Dancing With the Stars airs Tuesday at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
The It Girls of the modeling world have been making their mark on Italy during Milan Fashion Week, but Hailey Baldwin may have just made the boldest statement yet.
Rather than flashing her envious abs, a popular sight among the runway set lately, Baldwin turned up at the Dolce & Gabbana boutique opening event in Milan on Sunday wearing a white, below-the-knee lace dress.
The 19-year-old model paired the ethereal number with a whimsical gold headband covered in tiny white flowers and light brown pointy heels.
Baldwin previously dated Justin Bieber, and the Canadian singer's most recent ex, Sofia Richie, attended the D&G opening as well. Richie was even rocking a lace frock, albeit hers was black.
The two appeared to keep apart, sitting at different tables with their own set of friends.
Earlier in the day, Baldwin ruled the runway for the fashion house, stunning in a curve-hugging LBD styled with a bold floral hair piece.
She oozed just as much drama backstage, where she showed off that enormous rose embellishment and matching bright red lips.
Which famous face was sitting in the front row as Baldwin walked? None other than Richie, who was attending Fashion Week events with friends Cameron Dallas and Sarah Snyder.
MORE: Sofia Richie Looks at New Puppies After Justin Bieber Split, Poses With Adorable 'Baby Girl'
No word on if the two ended up chatting at either outing, though we're sure they have plenty of notes to compare.
The lovely lace frock is quite different from the very '90s, belly-baring ensemble Baldwin rocked on her Adele concert "date night" with BFF Kendall Jenner last month. Check out that outfit in the video below.
Britney Spears once tried to set her little sister, Jamie Lynn, up with Twilight hottie Taylor Lautner!
The actor and his Scream Queens co-star, John Stamos, revealed the failed set-up during an interview with Billboard at the iHeartRadio Music Festival in Las Vegas on Saturday.
EXCLUSIVE: Jamie Lynn Spears Gets Candid About Having More Kids and Battling Mom Guilt
“Britney tried to fix Taylor up with her sister one time,” divulged Stamos.
“A few years ago,” Lautner clarified. "A long time ago. We did not go out.”
While the duo, who introduced Spears’ performance at the festival, didn’t share why the matchmaking didn’t work out, Jamie Lynn has since found love with Jamie Watson, from her native Louisiana.
The 25-year-old singer, who became a mom at the age of 16 to daughter Maddie, now eight, tied the knot with Watson two-and-a-half years ago.
In June, the pair shared their hopes of expanding their family with ET. “My husband would like to have kids, like, yesterday,” said the songstress.
See more about the couple’s Louisiana life in the video below.
Tom Hanks would be the perfect wedding guest!
The Sully star happened upon a pair of happy newlyweds while jogging in NYC's Central Park over the weekend, and they invited him to take part in their wedding photos!
"Elizabeth and Ryan! Congrats and blessings! Hanx," the 60-year-old actor wrote on Instagram.
Photographer Meg Miller shared the moment to her Instagram on Sunday, writing, "Yesterday's wedding was so beautiful! Elisabeth and Ryan you planned one amazing celebration. The icing on the cake was @tomhanks stopping in Central Park to wish them congratulations."
What a joyous surprise to have on your big day!
Watch the video below for our favorite moments with the Hollywood icon.
Since tying the knot in August 2015 after four years of dating, Jennifer Aniston and Justin Theroux are one of the sweetest celeb couples in Hollywood, and Theroux knows exactly why their relationship works.
"We appreciate each other's sense of humor, we respect one another and we get along," the 45-year-old actor told ET's Nischelle Turner while promoting his upcoming drama, The Girl on the Train. "I know it sounds simple but it's true!"
Theroux isn’t the only one making his marriage work in a big way -- his Girl on the Train co-star, Emily Blunt, has been happily married to 13 Hours star John Krasinski for over six years and the two recently welcomed their second child in June.
According to Theroux, while Blunt was keeping her pregnancy hush-hush during production, she couldn't keep it a secret from him.
Theroux recalled that his suspicion was first aroused when Blunt refused to perform a very simple stunt that required her to jump up from the floor and run a few feet across the room.
"She was like, 'Yeah, I don’t think I’d be sitting on the floor. I think I’d be leaning against the counter,'" he remembered. "We were like, 'No, it makes total sense for you to be sitting on the floor. And then you just get up and run.' She was like, 'Nah, I’m not gonna do that. I’m gonna twist my hip or something.'"
Theroux said he told her he didn’t understand how she was "throwing Tom Cruise across the room [in Edge of Tomorrow] and going toe-to-toe with Benicio Del Toro [in Sicario]" but she wouldn't do this simple stunt.
"Later that day, we went back to my place and she was not having a cocktail and I asked, 'Are you pregnant?' And she was like, 'Shhh!!' And we had a big hug over that," he recounted. "It was a little secret we had to keep for a while until it became obvious."
For more on Emily Blunt's acclaimed turn in The Girl on the Train, which pulls into theaters Oct. 7, check out the video below.
The Miami Marlins paid their respects to Jose Fernandez in the team's first game back since the pitcher's death.
Fernandez and two male friends died early Sunday morning in a boating accident in Miami, and the Marlins cancelled their scheduled Sunday game against the Atlanta Braves in order to mourn the loss of their teammate.
It was a short reprieve from baseball, as the team went ahead with their game against the visiting New York Mets on Monday night.
Before the matchup began, the team and fans paid tribute to Fernandez, who was just 24 at the time of his death. Every member of the Marlins wore black jerseys with the ace's last name and number, 16. The Marlins stood on the field for an emotional ceremony, where his teammates, including Giancarlo Stanton and Christian Yelich, and Marlins coaches like Barry Bonds and Don Mattingly teared up as a trumpet solo played "Take Me Out to the Ballgame."
The Mets then joined the Marlins on the field, emotionally embracing each other and showing that baseball is one family that comes together during a tragedy.
Once the Mets players headed back to the away dugout, the Marlins circled the pitcher's mound, where Fernandez's number was spray painted. They knelt down, prayed, and rubbed dirt on their pants as tribute to Fernandez. The late pitcher grew up in Cuba where they didn't use resin, so he would rub dirt on his hands to keep them dry. Even after defecting to America, Fernandez kept the habit.
"If someone's struggling, pick them up. We're going to find a way to do this... For Jose," Stanton told his teammates gathered on the mound.
In a moment that felt similar to the home run Mike Piazza hit during the Mets' first game back at Shea Stadium after 9/11, Dee Gordon hit a long leadoff home run into the upper deck. The second baseman, who was wearing Fernandez's batting helmet and took his first pitch right-handed in honor of the pitcher, was visibly emotional as he made his way back to the dugout, tapping his chest and pointing skyward before being embraced by teammates. The second baseman had also worn a T-shirt that said RIP, with Fernandez's image replacing the "I" under his uniform during the day's warmups.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost
By the end of the third inning, the Marlins were already up 5-0, and the Mets TV announcers admitted that they had never experienced an atmosphere like this before, noting that people clearly came to the game to pay tribute. Marlins Park, which has rarely seen a full crowd this season, was packed to the brim with fans.
As expected, it was the most poignant dedication, though many Major League Baseball teams, including the Mets, began to honor Fernandez during their games on Sunday.
Among the tributes included Mets outfielder Yoenis Cespedes hanging a Fernandez jersey in the team's dugout for their game against the Philadelphia Phillies, and the Minnesota dugout featuring a No. 16 Twins jersey as they faced off against the Seattle Mariners. In addition to the Marlins and the Mets, teams across the MLB continued to pay their respects on Monday as well.
Blue seems to be the color du jour for Kate Middleton and Prince William!
All four members of the royal family, including the couple's 3-year-old son Prince George and 16-month-old daughter Princess Charlotte, donned the hue for their arrival in Victoria, British Columbia, on Saturday, and Kate and William sported blue again during day three of their royal tour in Canada.
The Duchess and Duke of Cambridge, both 34, rocked matching navy blue sweaters and collared shirts while visiting the Heiltsuk First Nation in Bella Bella, an Indian Reserve community in British Columbia, on Monday. Kate smartly carried an umbrella and wore a short camel trench coat ahead of entering the welcoming ceremony, as the afternoon was full of some pretty wet weather.
Kate paired her sweater with black pants and a favorite pair of Penelope Chilvers long tassel leather riding boots, while William's slightly darker jumper was paired with camel corduroys. 
The boots are the same pair Kate wore during her five-hour hike with William to the Tiger's Nest monastery in Bhutan during their royal trip to India and Bhutan in April.
The husband-and-wife duo received a very warm welcome from residents, with the local kids even putting on a traditional dance for their visitors, witnessed by all in the packed hall. 
As the royal Twitter account pointed out, the children really were the stars of the show, with Kate taking time out to speak to some of the young women there. 
The pair also met with elders in the community, and they were gifted with traditional scarves, which they put on during the ceremony, and tiny capes for George and Charlotte.
Later in the afternoon, William gave a speech endorsing Great Bear Rainforest, part of an international conservation effort and Canada's contribution to the Queen's Commonwealth Canopy, which aims to preserve forests for future generations.
"The establishment of the Canopy is a loud and unambiguous statement ... that nature is fundamental to the health of our societies," the Duke said during his speech. "Her Majesty is immensely grateful to you, and the people of Canada, for the leadership you have shown in making this contribution."
Kate and William then took a stroll down a boardwalk in the forest before unveiling a plaque during their visit.
PHOTOS: The Royal Family's Biggest Moments
Now that is a productive day!
Little George adorably stole the spotlight when the royals first arrived in Canada. Find out more in the video below.
Six months after Josh Duggar was released from rehab, the Duggar family has shared a rare official photo of him and his wife, Anna, to mark the couple’s eighth wedding anniversary.
A happy photo of the pair, both 28, was posted on the family’s Facebook page on Monday with the caption, “Happy Anniversary, Josh and Anna. We are so thankful for God’s redemptive love in your lives.”
Josh and Anna, who have four children together, have been going through marital struggles, with Josh entering rehab in August 2015 amid confessions of cheating on his wife and battling an addiction to Internet pornography.
EXCLUSIVE: Josh Duggar Exits Rehab After More Than 6 Months
Just months earlier, Josh, the eldest son of 19 Kids and Counting’s Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar, had admitted to molesting minors, including four of his sisters, when he was younger.
In January, Anna opened up about visiting her husband in rehab, describing the move as “an important step on a long, difficult road."
Prior to the visit, a source close to the family told ET that Anna was hoping to mend her marriage despite Josh’s indiscretions.
Find out more about the couple in the video below.
Six months after Josh Duggar was released from rehab, the Duggar family has shared a rare official photo of him and his wife, Anna, to mark the couple’s eighth wedding anniversary.
A happy photo of the pair, both 28, was posted on the family’s Facebook page on Monday with the caption, “Happy Anniversary, Josh and Anna. We are so thankful for God’s redemptive love in your lives.”
Josh and Anna, who have four children together, have been going through marital struggles, with Josh entering rehab in August 2015 amid confessions of cheating on his wife and battling an addiction to Internet pornography.
EXCLUSIVE: Josh Duggar Exits Rehab After More Than 6 Months
Just months earlier, Josh, the eldest son of 19 Kids and Counting’s Jim Bob and Michelle Duggar, had admitted to molesting minors, including four of his sisters, when he was younger.
In January, Anna opened up about visiting her husband in rehab, describing the move as “an important step on a long, difficult road."
Prior to the visit, a source close to the family told ET that Anna was hoping to mend her marriage despite Josh’s indiscretions.
Find out more about the couple in the video below.
Liev Schreiber and Naomi Watts have called it quits, ET can exclusively confirm.
"Over the past few months we've come to the conclusion that the best way forward for us as a family is to separate as a couple. It is with great love, respect, and friendship in our hearts that we look forward to raising our children together and exploring this new phase of our relationship," the couple told ET in a joint statement. "While we appreciate your curiosity and support, we ask the press to be mindful of our children and respect their right to privacy."
Though never married, the couple had been together since 2005.
Their last red carpet appearance together was earlier this month, at the Toronto Film Festival premiere of The Bleeder, which both of them star in.
Schreiber and Watts have two children together -- 9-year-old Alexander "Sasha" Pete and 7-year-old Samuel "Sammy" Kai.
This year, Schreiber brought Sasha with him to the 2016 Emmys.
Watts shared an adorable father-and-son photo before the show, writing, "Dapper duo here... #twinning 🏆🏆#crushingit #goodluck #raydonovan @lievschreiber #proudbeyondwords 🙌."
It's one of many sweet moments the family has shared on social media, like this video Watts posted to Instagram in May of Schreiber and his son playing air guitar, writing, "Just a private moment, of full blown #airguitar Couldn't resist #likefatherlikeson #joy."
Earlier this month, Schreiber affectionately captioned a photo of Watts, "Ay dios mio..."
In March, Watts revealed during a sit-down interview with ET the challenges her and Schreiber's hectic work schedules present when it comes to making time for their children.
"There are days where you feel like you're supermom and doing really well and got it handled, and then there are days where you're like, 'Ah! I can't do this!'" she admitted. "It's like any working mom, I think. It's a balance."
Watch the video below for more on Schreiber's Emmy day with Sasha.
This is a big moment.
Anticipation is boiling over for tonight's first presidential debate tonight, in what will be a historic face-off between Hillary Clinton -- the first female nominee of a major political party -- and the highly controversial Donald Trump.
Amid tightening polls, a widening partisan divide between the left and the right, and important questions about who we are as a country, it's nearly impossible that the implications of this election wouldn't permeate the world of pop culture. So it's no surprise that engagement in the event stretches far beyond the political sphere.
Here's what to watch out for in and around the showdown that has everyone buzzing.
1. There could be some big-name attendees.
Shark Tank businessman Mark Cuban tweeted Monday, "Just got a front row seat to watch @HillaryClinton overwhelm  @realDonaldTrump at the 'Humbling at Hofstra' on Monday.  It Is On!"
In retaliation, Trump seemingly threatened to invite Gennifer Flowers -- whose affair with former President Bill Clinton came to light during his 1992 presidential campaign -- writing, "If dopey Mark Cuban of failed Benefactor fame wants to sit in the front row, perhaps I will put Gennifer Flowers right alongside of him!"
MORE: Will Smith Says He's 'Embarrassed' by Donald Trump, Rose McGowan Calls Trump a 'Murderer in the Making'
Despite the tweet, Trump's campaign later told CNN, "We have not invited her formally, and we do not expect her to be there as a guest of the Trump campaign."
Meanwhile, the Miami Herald reported Monday that Clinton's husband has traveled to Hofstra, New York, with her for the debate, though it is unclear if he will be in attendance.
2. Trump's campaign has launched a Snapchat filter.
Trump is getting in the game with the first-ever nationwide filter from a political campaign, which reads, "Debate Day: Donald J. Trump vs. Crooked Hillary."
It's no surprise that digital spending is up for both campaigns heading into the home stretch of the election, which can be explained by the fact that tonight's debate will be watched on more than just TV screens...
3. Celebs will be watching (and tweeting).
A rep for Chelsea Handler told ET that the Chelsea Does star will be covering the debate on Snapchat and Twitter, as well as participating in a Twitter Q&A with fans afterward using the hashtag #ChelseaHelpMe.
"I’ll be live tweeting tonight with my girl @marycmccormack," Handler tweeted Monday. "She was on the West Wing, so she knows more than Trump. #ChelseaHelpMe #Debates."
Other stars that are gearing up for the debate include How to Get Away With Murder's Karla Souza, who wrote, "#LaurelCastillo is getting ready for the #debatenight @HowToGetAwayABC."
MORE: Hillary Clinton's Celebrity Supporters Congratulate Her on Historic Moment
In addition to all of the celeb attention that has already been paid during this election -- from Chrissy Teigen, John Legend, Chloe Grace Moretz, and Katy Perry in Clinton's corner, as well as Trump supporter, Duck Dynasty's Willie Robertson -- don't be surprised if you see even more star-powered Twitter fingers when the debate gets started.
4. The ratings could be bonkers.
Claims that all eyes are on Clinton and Trump tonight are hardly exaggerated.
According to The Hill, some experts are predicting that the viewership of tonight -- on TV and online -- could top 100 million.
For comparison, Super Bowl 50 between the Denver Broncos and Carolina Panthers had 111.9 million tuning in.
EXCLUSIVE: Hillary Clinton Says She'll Have a Nursery in the White House for Her Grandchildren
5. GIPHY is trying to get out the vote.
GIPHY has partnered with CBS, and will be live-GIFing tonight's event, as well as The Late Show With Stephen Colbert afterward.
Additionally, the GIF-aggregating website has been dropping celebrity-endorsed messages in their live feed all day aimed at encouraging political participation.
MORE: Daniel Radcliffe Says It's 'Pretty Undeniable' That Hollywood Is Racist, Slams Donald Trump
6. As with all live events, bring on the drinking games...
While debates are ideally used as an opportunity to weigh the candidates' policy positions through an in-depth exchange of ideas, live televised events always tend to lend themselves to drinking games, and with the over-the-top turns this election season has already taken, there's no reason to believe tonight will be any different.
The first presidential debate, hosted by NBC Nightly News' Lester Holt, airs live tonight at 9 p.m. ET. Will you be tuning in?
Hilary Duff has finally confirmed long-circulating rumors that she’s dating her personal trainer, Jason Walsh.
The 28-year-old singer, whose divorce from former NHL star Mike Comrie was finalized in February, opened up about the relationship during an appearance on Good Day New York on Monday.
“We have [found a little ‘like’ with each other],” she told host Rosanna Scotto.“We’ve known each other for a really long time and he’s a great guy and we have a lot of fun together. It’s nice to have that excitement in my life.”
Asked if the pair are in a relationship, the Younger star laughed and threw her hands up, indicating, ‘Yes.’
The two have been linked romantically for months and speculation deepened after they were photographed together in New York City on Saturday, holdings hands while shopping in Soho, then enjoying a dinner date in Tribeca. Duff, who has a 4-year-old son named Luca with Comrie, was also seen getting pizza with Walsh on Sunday evening.
“They are officially dating,” a source close to Duff tells ET. “They started as friends and are now full-on dating. They are having fun and Hilary really likes him. They are getting pretty serious. Jason is with Hilary in New York now and will stay with her there until she finishes filming. Everyone is so happy for her. She deserves the best.”
The source also addressed photos taken over the weekend of Comrie and Luca out with Duff’s older sister, Haylie, her fiancé, Matt Rosenberg, and their 1-year-old daughter, Ryan, at a farmers market in Los Angeles.
“They’re all still close,” says the insider. “It’s amazing how they have been able to stay on good terms, especially for Luca.  Haylie and Mike always had a great relationship, and Mike and Matt are friendly. Mike is a great dad and really loves Luca.”
Dancing With the Stars is counting on one of its vets to fill in for Erin Andrews.

Johnson will guest host Tuesday’s two-hour results show alongside Tom Bergeron, when the second celebrity will be eliminated.
The former DWTS pro will also co-host DWTS’ All Access online interview show on Monday. Bergeron will host Monday's live show solo.

Johnson last competed on season 20 of DWTS with Shark Tank’s Robert Herjavec, whom she married in July, and told ET in August that she was done with the show.
“I love the show and I love to still be part of it, but you know, I still want to hang up my dance shoes and what a way to end,” the 40-year-old Aussie said when asked about appearing on season 23. “It’s like, ‘Thank you, Dancing With the Stars.’”

Kim Zolciak loves to post a bikini selfie, and isn't letting the haters get to her.
The 38-year-old Don't Be Tardy star posted a pic of her bikini butt to Snapchat on Sunday with a body confident message. "This body birthed six kids and I'm damn proud!" she proclaimed. "Four kids in 30 months!!
Zolciak also called out trainer Jennifer Stanno for helping her stay fit.
In the past, she's credited waist trainers as contributing to her small frame. "My husband usually hooks it for me because I like mine pretty tight," Zolciak told ET about her corset. "I get a lot of negative comments -- 'You've gotten too small!' -- [but] how can your waist ever be too small? That's what I'd like to know."
Olivia Newton-John is refusing to believe tabloid reports that her ex-boyfriend, Patrick McDermott, faked his own death and is now living in Mexico in order to avoid paying debts.
McDermott went missing in 2005 after going on an overnight fishing trip in San Pedro, California. The Coast Guard declared McDermott had "most likely drowned," but in March, two private investigators alleged to Woman's Day that McDermott is actually living and working in a remote area of Mexico.
"It was very hard, he was lost at sea and nobody really knows what happened," Newton-John, 68, tells Australia's 60 Minutes in a new interview when asked about all the speculation.
The Grease actress admits she still thinks about the circumstances of McDermott's disappearance. Newton-John dated the cameraman on and off for nine years, following her divorce from Matt Lattanzi in 1995.
"It's human to wonder," she says. "But you know, those are the things in life you have to accept and let go. Because whenever you go through difficult times, there's always those concerns."
"But, I live on," she adds. "And of course questions come up, always, it's human."
Newton-John eventually remarried in 2008, when she tied the knot with John Easterling, founder and president of natural remedy firm, Amazon Herb Company.

ET talked to the Australian superstar last October, when she scored a hit with "You Have to Believe," her first collaboration with her 30-year-old daughter, Chloe Lattanzi. The song is a reworking of her 1980 hit, "Magic," from the film Xanadu.
"I think she has amazing talent -- a beautiful voice, a great songwriter -- I've been chomping at the bit so everyone could see her," Newton-John gushed to ET about her only child. "It's a great opportunity for me to say, 'Yay! Chloe, go!' And to do one of my songs is a real special treat."
Watch below:
Ronan Farrow is fondly remembering his late brother.
Mia Farrow's son shared a sweet tribute to his younger sibling, Thaddeus Farrow -- who died last week at age 27 -- writing, "Rest in peace, brother. I never knew anyone stronger, or who overcame more."
MORE: Mia Farrow's Son Thaddeus Dies at 27
Thaddeus, who was a paraplegic due to polio, was pronounced dead at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut after law enforcement found him with life-threatening injuries in his car.
According to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in Connecticut, Thaddeus died of a gunshot wound to the torso. His death has been ruled a suicide.
"We're devastated by the loss of Thaddeus, our beloved son and brother," Mia tweeted last week, linking to the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention. "He was a wonderful, courageous person who overcame so much hardship in his short life. We miss him. Thank you for the outpouring of condolences and words of kindness."
Thaddeus was adopted by Mia from Calcutta, India, in 1994, and was one of 10 children the 71-year-old actress has adopted.
If you or someone you know needs help, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
Now that we are all living in a post-Brangelina world, Goldie Hawn is throwing out some advice to couples everywhere.
The 70-year-old actress shared her secret to lasting love during an episode of UK’s ITV Loose Women on Monday, stating that if she had wed her partner of 33 years, Kurt Russell, she would be “long divorced” by now.
MORE: 7 Celebrity Couples Who Split Up and Actually Did Break Our Hearts
“Marriage is an interesting sociological thing. If you need to be bound to someone, then it’s important to be married,” Hawn said while sitting front and center on the show’s panel.  “If you have independence, if you have enough money and enough sense of independence and you like your independence, there is something psychological about not being married because it gives you the freedom to make decisions.”
“In a healthy, longer-term relationship, I would say it's great to be together about 68% of the time,” she added about how much time to spend with your significant other.
Of course, fellow Hollywood stars Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie were aboard the not-married train up until two years ago when they decided to say “ I do” after nearly a decade together and six children.
"We made this declaration some time ago that we weren't going to do it till everyone can. But I don't think we'll be able to hold out. It means so much to my kids, and they ask a lot. And it means something to me, too, to make that kind of commitment,” Pitt told The Hollywood Reporter in 2012 about why they finally were going to tie the knot.
Jolie shocked fans of the high-profile couple last week when she filed for divorce from her husband citing irreconcilable differences.
Since then, reports surfaced that Pitt was being accused of alleged child abuse when an altercation broke out on the famous family’s private plane involving Jolie and Pitt’s oldest son, Maddox.
A source told ET last week it was "totally a child-parent disagreement," and any reports of inappropriate physical conduct are "exaggerated or untrue."
Despite the drama surrounding the unraveling of the star power pair, ET's source says that Pitt thinks Jolie is "a great mom."
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source stated. "He has also made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her. He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."
For more on the Jolie-Pitt split, watch below:
Brad Pitt wishes to resolve his and Angelina Jolie's issues "amicably and privately," a source tells ET.
The 52-year-old actor is also hoping to see the six children he shares with Jolie soon, the source adds.  Jolie and the kids are currently living in a rental in Malibu, California, where they've been since news of Jolie and Pitt's split broke last Tuesday.
According to the source, a difference of priorities is one reason for the A-list couple's surprising breakup after two years of marriage, saying that Jolie, 41, has increasingly moved away from Hollywood to focus on her activities as UNHCR Special Envoy, while Pitt is still very much interested in making films.
"Every marriage has priorities and they have been able to navigate them up until now," the source says. "Brad has different priorities. He's a leading actor with movies coming out. She has her things she wants to do and no one is saying that’s wrong."
However, Jolie's globetrotting activities are apparently a point of tension between the pair.
"Her global ambitions are part of the current problem -- I don't think anyone wants their kids all over the place," the source adds.
Last week, our source said that despite Pitt being taken by surprise by Jolie's divorce filing, Pitt refuses to badmouth the Maleficent actress.
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source said. "He has also made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her. He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."
As for the alleged incident that happened on a family flight home from France earlier this month that reportedly prompted Jolie to file for divorce, our source says it was actually a "normal" tiff between Pitt and their 15-year-old son, Maddox.
"There was no inappropriate physical contact. Nothing inappropriate happened," the source said, noting that this was “totally a child-parent disagreement" and that any reports of inappropriate physical conduct are "exaggerated or untrue."
Jolie has asked for physical custody of their children in her divorce filing, which in addition to Maddox includes 10-year-old Shiloh, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, and 8-year-old twins Vivienne and Knox. Our source tells ET, however, that Pitt wants to be with his kids and have some custody.
Pitt and Jolie often struggled with issues when it came to agreeing on a parenting style for their children, another source previously told ET.
"Brad has traditional parenting skills -- thinks the kids need structure [like] bed times, consistent schooling," the source said. "Angelina's parenting style is much more freeform. She's not into setting boundaries."
Watch the video to see all the time Jolie and Pitt have gushed over their children and being a family:
Could Ariana Grande cross over to country radio? Maybe!
The 23-year-old pop star appeared to have Nashville on the brain at the iHeartRadio Fest in Las Vegas over the weekend, opening up to Elvis Duran of New York's Z100 Morning Show about her career ambitions.
"My grandpa, he always wanted me to do something in the country world. I don't know if that would ever happen," she said, "[but] if that opportunity comes along, I'd have to say, 'Hell yeah!'"
"My grandpa was like, 'You need to do a country song,'" she continued. "So, [I] gotta make that happen someday."
Grande said she grew up listening to the Dixie Chicks with her dad, "so that's the most country I've been exposed to."
For now, Grande is gearing up for her Dangerous Woman tour and a supporting role in NBC's Hairspray Live! in December.
"I love, love, love, love pop music and I love what I do, and I'm very grateful to be able to do it, but my soul misses theater so much," the former Broadway star told ET. "I'm so excited about Hairspray, I have no words. Like, I love it so much. I love being able to be a part of something that, A.) is a musical and B.) also makes people feel good."
In a separate interview with ET last week, Grande had praised the musical's "strong message."
"With everything that's going on in the world -- the intolerance, the ignorance, the hate and ridiculousness -- it's just so crazy how this takes place in the '60s and, like, we're still working on all that. It's playful, but also very necessary," she said.
The "Side to Side" singer also spilled on her own personal life, revealing that her ideal date night involves Pokemon. See what she said in the player below!
John Travolta and Kelly Preston's son, Ben, has been quite the blessing to his parents and 16-year-old sister, Ella.
In 2009, the couple's 16-year-old son, Jett, died unexpectedly after he hit his head in a bathtub during a seizure while the family was on vacation in the Bahamas. Five years later, Preston gave birth to Ben.
During an interview with Good Morning America on Monday, Travolta shared that his youngest child has helped the family heal following Jett's death.
“We certainly have bonded together,” the 62-year-old Gotti actor said. “And certainly, having little Ben has been a beautiful kind of glue for us to rebond after tremendous loss.”
After winning an Emmy for producing The People v. O.J. Simpson: American Crime Story earlier this month, Travolta thanked Jett when he spoke to ET. "The biggest thanks has to go to [show creator] Ryan Murphy, because he made this all possible," Travolta said. "And my family: Kelly, Ella, Ben and then my little Jetty, I love you all so much."
EXCLUSIVE: John Travolta and Kelly Preston on Playing John and Victoria Gotti -- 'You Can See the Intimacy'
Prince George doesn't just go shaking the hand of everyone he meets!
The 3-year-old royal is currently accompanying his parents, Duchess Kate and Prince William, on their Canadian visit, and upon touching down in the country on Saturday, the trio was greeted by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. However, when the politician went in for a handshake and/or high five, George totally stonewalled him.
That's ice cold, Prince George!
Watch the video below for an extended look at the unrequited greeting.
Of course, Twitter users couldn't help but poke fun at Trudeau after his adorably awkward moment.
Nevertheless, Trudeau and George will surely be best pals by the end of the royal family's trip on Oct. 1, as it will include touring Vancouver, Kelowna, Yukon, Victoria and Haida Gwaii, learning about mental health issues as well as kid-friendly stops in Great Bear Rainforest on British Columbia's Central Coast!
Meanwhile, the Duchess has been crushing the fashion game on her trip, at one point rocking a nearly identical dress to Amal Clooney, proving they are style soulmates.


Watch the video below.
This is the life!
Mary-Kate and Ashley Olsen took a dip at Hotel du Cap Eden Roc in Antibes, France, over the weekend, the usually reserved twins letting loose at the exclusive resort. Ashley soaked up the sun in a classic black strapless swimsuit, while Mary-Kate flaunted her abs in a chic two-piece. The pair was joined by Mary-Kate's husband, 47-year-old Olivier Sarkozy.
PICS: Hollywood's Hottest Bikini Bods
Mary-Kate showed her more adventurous side during their European getaway, jumping off of a yacht while wearing her impressive engagement ring. The 30-year-old twins were presumably in town to attend the wedding of art collector Alberto Mugrabi and fashion blogger Colby Jordan, who wed at the upscale venue in the French Riviera on Saturday. The star-studded guest list included model Karlie Kloss and actress Sienna Miller, and was DJ'd by Mark Ronson.
Mary-Kate married Olivier -- the younger brother of former French president Nicolas Sarkozy -- last November. Since then, the couple hasn't been shy about showing plenty of PDA. The French banker supported his wife earlier this month when she competed in the annual Hampton Classic Horse Show in Bridgehampton, New York, the two sharing a smooch during one of her breaks.
Watch below:
Will, Grace, Jack and Karen are back on set!
The beloved cast of Will & Grace reunited this weekend, and shared a few photos that appear to be of them in character. "Only smiling because of where Eric's hand is!" Debra Messing captioned a photo of her sandwiched between Eric McCormack, Megan Mullally and Sean Hayes.
EXCLUSIVE: Debra Messing Talks a Big Twitter Game
The 48-year-old actress also shared a pic of her hugging McCormack, quipping: "You smell the same!"
Further hinting that fans will get a full-blown Will & Grace reunion, Messing tweeted a photo of herself on set, writing: "I feel like something BIG is going to happen tomorrow."
Her co-stars followed suit, with Mullally, 57, tweeting a pic of herself in what looks to be Will and Grace's old apartment with the caption: "I remember this place."
She also posed with Messing and Instagrammed: "My new wife and i are so happy @therealdebramessing."
Meanwhile, McCormack is seen with a script in his hand in a photo he posted on Sunday. "I used to be able to do this without glasses," the 53-year-old actor quipped.
Hayes also shared some fun photos, and called out another Will & Grace character. "Beverly Leslie comes up to here on me," the 46-year-old actor wrote on Instagram, referring to Leslie Jordan's role on the sitcom.
In addition to all the reunion pics, the cast shared cryptic messages that just show I Love Lucy character names above a "Hot Food" logo. Messing posted Lucy, Hayes posted Fred, and Mullally shared Ethel and Fred.
Hayes later all but confirmed the reunion with what appeared to be a promo for the show's return. Fans noticed that the red letters in the video read: "Will and Grace is back."
Will & Grace aired for eight seasons from 1998–2006, and won an Emmy for Outstanding Comedy Series in 2000.
These sitcom stars aren't the only ones to reunite this year. ET got the Lost Boys of Hook together for the film's 25-year anniversary and it was pretty epic. Take a look:
Yolanda Hadid knows the demands of being a reality star, and shared some kind words with Rob Kardashian after the latest episode of Rob and Chyna aired on Sunday night.
"Keep on being the real deal, @robkardashian. You are perfect just the way U are," the former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star tweeted. "You've got this baby #RealLifeStruggles #invisibleillness."
Rob was grateful for the encouragement, responding: "I APPRECIATE YOUR WORDS AND THANK YOU FOR BEING SO POSITIVE ABOUT LIFE. I really appreciate you."
On last night's episode, the father-to-be admitted that he was uncomfortable about his weight and was apprehensive about traveling to Washington D.C. and facing the public and paparazzi. He ultimately decided to take the trip and face his fears head-on.
"I feel like just throwing myself into these uncomfortable situations is what I gotta do in order to be happy and get past everything," Rob shared. "I'm realizing that not everyone is judging me and I'm just hard on myself."
The 29-year-old reality star also got to know his pregnant fiancee Chyna's family, and received a warning from her mother, Tokyo Toni. Check it out:
Savannah Guthrie now has one of each.
The 44-year-old Today show co-host revealed the gender of her second child with husband Mike Feldman on the NBC morning show on Monday, happily announcing the couple is expecting a baby boy. Guthrie and Feldman are already parents to 2-year-old daughter Vale.
The Today show got a plane to fly a banner reading "It's a boy!" as Guthrie and her co-hosts --  Matt Lauer, Al Roker, Tamron Hall, Kathie Lee Gifford, Hoda Kotb, Carson Daly and Billy Bush -- drank blue milkshakes.
She revealed that her hubby already sweetly talks to their son.
"He's so excited, he talks to the baby, like, 'Let me talk to my son. Attention, son,'" she shared. "We feel beyond blessed to get to have a baby, and to get to have a boy and a girl."
When Lauer joked that Guthrie should consider having another boy so that he, Daly and Roker could have a foursome, Guthrie cracked, "No, hotel uterus is closed."
"Thanks for that," Lauer replied, clearly feeling a little awkward.
Guthrie and Feldman have been married since March 2014. The journalist announced she's expecting in June.
Today show meteorologist Dylan Dreyer also adorably announced she's pregnant in June, just three days after Guthrie's big news.
Watch the cute moment below!
Lupita Nyong'o’s dreams of being a rapper are coming to life.
The Oscar winner posted a professionally done video to Instagram in celebration of garnering 3 million followers, and raps original lyrics to the beat of Nas' "New York State of Mind."
EXCLUSIVE: Lupita Nyong'o Is 'Fantasizing' About Motherhood, Channeled Her 'Fierce' Mom in Jungle Book Performance
"Introducing my alter ego TROUBLEMAKER," Nyong'o captioned the video.
The 33-year-old actress didn't miss a beat as she spat rhymes about her birthplace of Mexico and homeland of Kenya, promoted her upcoming movie Queen of Katwe, called out her humanitarian work as a Wildaid global elephant ambassador and even dropped a line about her Lancome endorsement deal. She also bragged about speaking four different languages and making the big bucks.
MORE: Lupita Nyong'o Dishes on Meeting Beyonce and Hearing Her Name in a Jay Z Song
"Mexican-born Kenya running through my veins/ Dark chocolate plus I keep a sharp mane," she rapped while in the back of a car. "Lancome fresh-face, looking tailor-made/Disney on the books so you know I stay paid/ Next stop Katwe rocking out with David/Don’t do critics if you’re hating please save it."
"Ambassador for elephants trying to save the planet," she continued. "I’m working on my master plan stunting in a hammock."
Actress Miriam A. Hyman wrote the lyrics for Nyong'o, while pal Katelyn Manley directed the video.
MORE: Queen of Katwe Review -- Disney Provides Plenty of Heart and a Worthy Role for Lupita Nyong'o
Nyong'o debuted her rap skills to ET earlier this month at the Toronto International Film Festival. "I'm secretly a rapper," she quipped. "It's so secret I don't even know it."
When you're this in shape, it's easy to see why Lea Michele is totally cool with being in the buff.
The 30-year-old Scream Queens actress recently stopped by The Ellen DeGeneres Show, airing Monday, and talked about going completely naked for the September cover of Women's Health UK.
"I just turned 30, so I figured, 'Why not?'" Michele explains. "I feel in pretty good shape, and it's very interesting, though, just walking around naked, going, 'I'm ready!'"
"I mean, I definitely am comfortable," she adds. "I was on Broadway for a while and I had to do some nudity stuff for Spring Awakening, so I'm pretty comfortable being naked ... I feel everyone [at the photoshoot] was more nervous than I was."
Michele is currently single after splitting from iZombie actor Robery Buckley in July after two months of dating. The former Glee star gamely played "Who'd You Rather?" with DeGeneres and got hilariously candid about some of her choices, including revealing that her Scream Queens season two co-star, Taylor Lautner, once gave her a lap dance. Michele also got brutally honest when she was given the choice between actors Tom Hiddleston and Michael B. Jordan.
"He's got too much going on, Tom Hiddleston," she joked, clearly referring to his recent breakup from Taylor Swift. "I can't get with that. I can't, it's a lot."
ET spoke to Michele's Glee co-star, Naya Rivera, earlier this month, when the 29-year-old actress dished on her "love-hate" relationship with Michele while filming the hit Fox show.
"Santana and Rachel hated each other, but they also had this love-hate sort of relationship, and I feel like Lea and I had that while we were on the show," Rivera told ET exclusively.
Rivera also claimed that there were times when Michele was "unprofessional" on set, but says that it didn't always involve her.
Watch below:
Toddler Mutant Ninja Tennessee! Reese Witherspoon’s youngest son, Tennessee, turns 4 this week and his A-list mom threw him a sweet party this past weekend to celebrate.
“This smile says it all!  Had such a special day- celebrating this sweet little one's (soon-to-be) birthday!!! We love you so much Tennessee!!! #TimeFlies #SundayFunday,” Witherspoon captioned a pic of her son holding up a yellow balloon.
MORE: Reese Witherspoon's Daughter Ava Phillippe Looks Adorable in Solo Red Carpet Debut!
She also shared a photo of Tennessee’s epic Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles-themed cake. The grey cake has a skyline of buildings and a small man hole cover with the turtles peeking out. The sewer pipe features a handful of Skittles spilling out of it.
Not only did Tennessee get treated to some cartoon fun, but his older sister, Ava Phillippee, also took to Instagram to wish her brother a happy early birthday.
“Happy early birthday to this super preschooler going on teenager. Love you, dude,” she captioned a photo of Tennessee drinking from an Honest Company juice box.
Ava has been doing some growing up of her own recently. The 17-year-old attended a Chanel-hosted dinner in West Hollywood last week, walking the red carpet by herself.
For more on Reese’ special relationship with her look-alike daughter, watch the video below!
Where has the time gone?
In celebration of the 25th anniversary of Nirvana's wildly popular album Nevermind, which featured a naked baby boy on its iconic cover, photographer John Chapple tracked down the newborn, who is now a 25-year-old man, and had him recreate the image.
EXCLUSIVE: Director Brett Morgen on His Favorite Nirvana Song and How Ken Burns Helped Prep Him
Spencer Elden posed in a swimming pool just like he did as a newborn, and told the New York Post that he initially wanted to pose nude but Chapple "thought that would be weird."
This isn't the first time Elden has attempted to recreate the beloved album cover. At age 17, he participated in a similar shoot at the Rose Bowl Aquatic Center in Pasadena, California, where the first album cover was shot. In an interview with MTV at the time, he admitted that it's an awkward feeling to know that so many people have seen him in the nude.
"It's kind of creepy [to think] that that many people have seen me naked," he explained. "I feel like I'm the world's biggest porn star."
MORE: Kurt Cobain: Montage of Heck -- 7 Things We Learned About the Nirvana Frontman
In 1991, Elden's parents were reportedly paid just $200 to have their newborn son on the album cover.
Meanwhile, Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain's daughter Francis Bean is also all grown up, and taking after her late father. Last month, Francis posted a video of her singing a Jimmy Eat World song, and her mother Courtney Love couldn't help but gush over the brief performance. Check it out:
After 20 years of marriage, the honeymoon still isn't over for Kelly Ripa and Mark Consuelos.
The Pitch star hung out with his wife's pal Andy Cohen on Watch What Happens Live, and responded to a caller who asked about the secret to his happy marriage.
"We really dig each other," Consuelos said. "I'm really crazy about her."
Continuing to gush over Ripa, he repeated, "I'm crazy about her."
MORE: Mark Consuelos on Living in L.A. With His Teenage Children -- 'We're Like Roommates'
"You know what's great about you guys," Cohen told Consuelos. "You bang a lot."
Smiling awkwardly, the 45-year-old actor replied, "We keep it going! I'm bananas over my wife."
Over the summer, Consuelos was living in Los Angeles, California, while he filmed Pitch. ET caught up with the actor and got an update on what it was like to be so far away from his wife. Here's what Consuelos had to say:
Eric Matthews is all grown up! Boy Meets World star Will Friedle announced on Twitter that he has officially tied the knot.
Friedle took to Twitter on Sunday, posting a photo with his bride with the caption, “Ladies and gentlemen…Mrs. Squirrels.”
Friedle did not offer up the name of his new wife, but he did tweet about his big day to his more than 100,000 followers.
EXCLUSIVE: Will Friedle Talks Eric Matthews' Girl Meets World Debut -- 'It's Like Being Back With Family!'
“Flying home for my wedding today… yup… sounds weird even when I type it! #CantWait,” Friedle tweeted last Tuesday. On Wednesday, he added, “I appreciate all of the love but I get married this Sunday…still…all of your shout outs have made us so happy! #YoureTheBest.”
On his big day, Friedle tweeted a pic of himself decked out in a suit and standing on a dock.
“I’m sorry you weren’t all invited to the wedding. #RandomSundayApology #BoyMeetsWife,” he captioned the shot.
EXCLUSIVE: Girl Meets World Stages an Epic Boy Meets World Reunion With Both Morgans -- See the Pics!
It is unclear if Friedle invited any of his Boy Meets World co-stars to the festivities, but both Danielle Fishel and Ben Savage appeared to attend other events on Sunday.
The trio recently reunited when Friedle appeared in an episode of the hit sitcom’s spin-off series, Girl Meets World, last May. Watch an exclusive clip of the reunion below!
Amy Schumer’s Kiss Cam dreams came true when the comedian attended a New York Mets game at Citi Field in Queens, New York, on Sunday.
It was an epic day for the Long Island native to watch her home team at the stadium, as the Mets beat the visiting Philadelphia Phillies 17-0 in a record-setting shut out that also marked the most runs scored by the team at Citi Field.
Schumer, her family, Jerry Seinfeld, Jonah Hill, Matthew Broderick, and her boyfriend, Ben Hanisch, all had a blast, taking photos and sharing videos from the stands.
“Let's go @mets thank you jerry and @jessseinfeld #dreamday," she captioned an epic group shot.
The Trainwreck star also posted a video of her sweet and funny Kiss Cam moment to Instagram, writing, "I have always wanted to be on the kiss cam! My dad and my man!! #letsgomets."
In the clip, Schumer leans over to give her dad a kiss on the cheek before aggressively making out with Hanisch, who happily joined in, throwing his sunglasses to the side and grabbing the back of his girlfriend's head during the heated exchange.
EXCLUSIVE: Amy Schumer Dishes on Why Boyfriend Ben is 'Totally Different' From Her Exes, Responds to That Meryl Streep Quote
The pair have been spending lots of time together lately. They attended the Emmy Awards together earlier this month, posing with pals on the red carpet and having fun at the various after parties.
For more on Schumer's relationship, watch ET’s exclusive interview with her below!

MORE: Hilary and Haylie Duff Pose in Bikinis Together: See the Pics From Their Sisters' Weekend!
Duff went casual in jeans, a draped grey sweater and moccasin booties. Personal trainer Walsh wore a jean jacket with grey pants and a baseball cap.
Later the pair went out for a dinner date in Tribeca, changing into more high fashion ensembles with Duff in a checkered grey dress and thigh-high pink boots.
On Sunday, the duo were spotted out together again grabbing some pizza for lunch. The former child star took to Instagram Stories to share a shot of the delicious treat.
Neither Duff nor Walsh have publicly opened up about their  romance but this marks the first serious relationship the TV Land star has had since divorcing from her ex-husband, Mike Comrie.
MORE: Hilary Duff Says She's Not Worried About Looking 'Absolutely Perfect' in Swimsuits
Duff and Comrie were married from 2010 until this past February when their divorce was finalized after a year of separation. The exes remain close, co-parenting their son, Luca, together.
"We have such a great kid, and we're both so obsessed with him," Duff told Ellen DeGeneres earlier this year. "We are good friends and we laugh a lot, and we have a great communication."
No one knows how to rock a photo booth like Taylor Swift. The 26-year-old pop star looks like she had a blast at Liberty Ross’ 38th birthday party, which was held at Jimmy Iovine and Ross’ Malibu home.
Swift showed off her shorter blonde bob in the photo booth with several celebrity pals, including the birthday girl, Mary J. Blige, Mick Jagger, and the ladies of Haim. She also goofed off with celebrity hairstylist, Gareth Bromell, posing for a series of pics that showed off her new ‘do.
Late night host James Corden also got in on the fun with his wife, Julia Carey. (Please let this mean a Swift/Corden Carpool Karaoke is in the works!)
According to Us Weekly, the “Blank Space” singer also cut a rug on the dance floor with actress and Goop founder, Gwyneth Paltrow.
“Gwyneth Paltrow was dancing with Taylor Swift and hanging out with her a lot,” a source told the mag. “They seemed like good friends. Taylor was in an amazing mood and very social.”
Swift has been keeping a low profile lately. Earlier this month, she attended her first public event following her split from actor Tom Hiddleston, supporting her bestie Gigi Hadid at NYFW.
For more on the Hiddleswift split, watch the video below!
Late Sunday night, Patricia Arquette took to Twitter to honor her late sister, Alexis Arquette, who passed away earlier this month after a long battle with HIV.
“If there is a reincarnation I pray to God that you come back Lex into a family that loves you as much as we do,” the Oscar-winning actress wrote. “Thank you all for your condolences and words of support and prayers for our family.”
Patricia penned the family’s release announcing Alexis’ death on September 11.
“Alexis was a brilliant artist and painter, a singer, an entertainer and an actor,” Patricia wrote. “Her career was cut short, not by her passing, but by her decision to live her truth and her life as a transgender woman. Despite the fact that there are few parts for trans actors, she refused to play roles that were demeaning or stereotypical. She was a vanguard in the fight for understanding and acceptance for all trans people.”
Shortly after Alexis’ death, it was revealed that the actress had been suffering from HIV for the past 29 years and had ultimately died from cardiac arrest.
Her actor brother, David Arquette, honored his sister with a throwback pic, tweeting, “Thank you all for your love and kind words about Alexis. My hero for eternity,” he wrote.
For more on Alexis’ death, watch the video below.
Sunday’s episode of Last Man on Earth gave Mad Men fans the answer to the question they’ve been asking since the critically-acclaimed show took its final bow in May 2015: When are we getting a reunion?
The answer, which proved to be somehow even more satisfying than we ever could have imagined -- at the end of the world, when Betty Draper (January Jones) finally gets her revenge.
Jones has been a regular cast member on Fox's post-apocalyptic comedy since its first season, playing Melissa, a member of Philip Tandy’s (the titular Last Man, played by Will Forte) core group of survivors. When the group is approached by a threesome of hazmat-wearing strangers with guns in Sunday’s season 3 premiere, things quickly go from bad to worse in the tension-packed standoff. And that’s when Melissa comes barreling in with a shotgun, calling back this classic Mad Men moment:
When one of the strangers makes an unexpected movement, Melissa pulls the trigger, shooting “Darrell” in the chest. His fellow invaders immediately drop their weapons, pulling off Darrell’s mask to reveal none other than Jones' former on-screen husband, Jon Hamm!
“We weren’t going to shoot you,” Darrell gasps with his last dying breaths. “We come in peace.”
Sure, Darrell. That’s exactly what Don would say.
Jussie Smollett is gearing up to spend his Thanksgiving in Hawaii with Mariah Carey!
The Empire star is heading to the Aloha State to sing live with the "Without You" singer during three of her upcoming performance dates, and Smollett had nothing but love for working with the best-selling star, who also makes an appearance on the Fox drama this fall.
"Mariah is just amazing," the 33-year-old actor told ET backstage at the iHeartRadio Music Festival at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada on Saturday. "The support that she's shown me so far, she absolutely did not have to be as supportive as she is but she has been."
"It was supposed to be one night only, that sold out in like a couple of hours so they added a second show. That sold out so now we're gonna do three shows!" he added.
Carey shared the news on Twitter on Tuesday, and Smollett retweeted the diva, writing, "I love you. This is crazy. Let's go!!! #SweetSweetFantasy."
But performing with Carey and starring on Empire aren't the only things Smollett has on his plate -- he's also been spending a few early mornings sitting in as a guest co-host alongside Kelly Ripa on Live!
"That honestly is just so much fun," he marveled. "Kelly's become a good friend since I first went on the show like a year and a half ago so it's just fun to play with her."
However, Smollett said he doesn't think there's a permanent future as a long-term co-host on Live! in the cards for him, given the time constraints and pressures of filming his hit Fox drama, in which he stars as singer Jamal Lyon, son of Terrence Howard's Lucious Lyon.
"For me, there's no chance that I would ever be able to do something like that," Smollett said when asked if he would consider signing on as a full-time Live! co-host. "Jamal kind of takes up my time."
PHOTOS: All of Kelly Ripa's 'Live!' Guest Co-Hosts
The star also dished on the shocking start of Empire's third season, which saw the death of Jamal’s sister-in-law, Rhonda Lyon, played by Kaitlin Doubleday.
"I was sad because I love Kaitlin personally, outside of the show," Smollett shared. "It's always tough when you lose a character."
However, he also teased that it's possible fans might see Doubleday reprise her character in future episodes.
"Empire is known for our flashbacks and good stuff like that," Smollett hinted. "You never know."
In August, Smollett spoke with ET about his Empire musical collaboration with Carey back in season two, recounting how the celebrated songstress "landed at 1 a.m. She came into the studio. We were there until seven in the morning, and we just recorded the song, and it was incredible, and I love her." Check out the video below to hear more.
Rob Kardashian and fiancée Blac Chyna made Sunday's all-new episode of their fiery reality series, Rob & Chyna, a family affair.
Fans of the show are already familiar with the Kardashian side of things, so the couple, who are expecting their baby girl next month, flew to Washington, D.C. to visit Chyna's extended family, who might be even more suitable for reality stardom than Rob’s famous sisters.
Both of Chyna's parents came out to dinner with the couple, however her mom and dad haven't spoken in over 10 years. The family dynamic and the tension between the parents actually worked out well for Rob, who was worried he'd be the center of attention at the family gathering.
Once everybody reconnected (with less drama than you might anticipate, given the fact that Chyna and two of her half-sisters revealed that they’re close enough in age to be "triplets"), they did what any family does during a heartfelt reunion: They headed over to Chyna's old strip club to throw money at half-naked women.
While the episode had all the thongs and drunken cheering that the show's first trailer promised, that doesn't mean there weren't a few poignant moments as well.
Rob, who was very open about being uncomfortable with his weight, was hesitant to fly out to D.C. and open himself up to the prying eyes of the paparazzi and the public.
However, the 29-year-old reality star came to the conclusion that putting himself out there might be the exact thing he needs to get over his self-image issues and start getting healthy and being happy.
"I feel like just throwing myself into these uncomfortable situations is what I gotta do in order to be happy and get past everything," Rob shared. "I'm realizing that not everyone is judging me and I'm just hard on myself."
Chyna's mom, Tokyo Toni, also shared a few words of warning with Rob, pleading with him to get healthier for the sake of his unborn child and Chyna.
"You're dealing with my only child. She didn't have a father around. She don't need a baby with no father, do you understand me?" Tokyo asked. "You can't do what you're doing. You're gonna ruin it."
In the months since the reunion, Rob's actually been shedding weight with the help of his fiancée, who has taken it upon herself to cook him well-balanced meals and introduce him to a natural lifestyle.
For more on Rob's struggles with his weight and his personal insecurities, check out the video below.
Happy birthday to Catherine Zeta-Jones and her husband, Michael Douglas!
The couple, who recently celebrated their 16th wedding anniversary, also happen to share the same birthday, Sept. 25, and Zeta-Jones took to Instagram on Sunday to observe the happy occasion.
“A birthday kiss for my hubby,” the 47-year-old actress captioned a pic of her husband, who turned 72. “Happy Birthday to you and me. 😘.”
Earlier this year, the adorable couple -- who share two children: 16-year-old Dylan and 13-year-old Carys -- re-visited the site of Douglas’ 1999 proposal in Aspen, Colorado, spending some sweet time together on the snowy slopes.
Check out the adorable video below to see Douglas explaining why the 1999 Deauville Film Festival -- where he met his soon-to-be wife -- was the high point of his career.
EXCLUSIVE: Michael Douglas Says the Best Moment in His Career Was Meeting Catherine Zeta-Jones
Dancing With the Stars' Tom Bergeron will be hosting Monday’s new episode by himself, as co-host Erin Andrews is taking time from work to be with her boyfriend, hockey player Jarret Stoll, who suffered a death in his family.
The 61-year-old long-time DWTS stalwart announced the news via Twitter on Sunday, sharing, "My pal @ErinAndrews will be absent from @DancingABC this week to support @jarretstoll whose nephew passed away. Sending hugs and condolences."
PHOTOS: 'Dancing With the Stars' Season 23: See the Hot Pairings!
Bergeron himself took time off from hosting the ABC reality competition series during season 21 to be by his ailing father's side before he passed away in October 2015. Former DWTS champ Alfonso Ribeiro filled in for the host during his absence.
However, Bergeron confirmed on Twitter that he will be flying solo for the first of the week's two episodes, and that the show will "have someone (as yet undetermined) filling in for Erin" on Tuesday's live results show.
Neither Andrews nor Stoll have commented on the death of his nephew, however she did take to Twitter on Sunday to share her reaction to the untimely death of Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez, who was killed in a boating accident, along with two others, early Sunday morning.
"No words...awful," Andrews wrote after sharing a sadly prescient tweet Fernandez posted on Sept. 1, reading, "If you were given a book with the story of your life, would you read the end?"
Watch the video below for more on the 24-year-old baseball star's tragic accident.
Things are going from great to even greater for actress and singer Idina Menzel this week. Not only does she have a top 10 album on the iTunes charts but she got engaged to fellow theater star, Aaron Lohr. ET's Elvis Duran caught up with the songstress backstage at the iHeart Radio Music Festival in Las Vegas on Saturday, where she gushed about her new fiancé and her fantasy duet partner.
News of the "Let It Go" singer's engagement broke on Friday after she announced it on Twitter, the same week her new album was released.
"I'm super happy, yeah! Very happy," the 45-year-old Rent star told Duran.
"I'm happy because it's all coming together, everything feels good. I went through a lot of stuff and it's new beginnings," she added.
Menzel, whose divorce from actor Taye Diggs was finalized in 2014, wowed on the red carpet in a form-fitting, cleavage-baring black pantsuit and casually displayed her engagement bling on her left hand.
The Broadway star's self-titled album, idina., has been climbing the charts since its recent release but Menzel says it's her love of singing that motivates her to keep creating. "It's just what I've been wanting to do my whole life. Just make music and sing for a living. To get accolades is great," the Tony winner said, "but it's just the need to sing." 
Still, mainstream success hasn't always been something she was sure of. "Coming from the theater, everybody always said you couldn't break through with the pop thing and I always believed in myself that I could, so I appreciate people giving me a chance," Menzel marveled.
The naysayers motivated her to prove them wrong. "I'm very competitive and defiant," she added.
Although the Glee actress has performed for the likes of President Obama and with major symphony orchestras around the world, as well as playing the role of Elsa in the top-grossing Disney film, Frozen¸ there is one dream collaborator she is too shy to reach out to -- Bono!
"I've always said if I could do a duet with someone, it'd be Bono," she admits. "My whole life, that's all I've ever said. I still have not done a duet with him." Menzel recalls attending the 2014 Oscars when "Let it go" beat out U2's "Ordinary Love" for Best Original Song. "They didn't win but I love you Bono and I really want to sing with you anyway!"
There's still time to check that off the bucket list, Idina!
Menzel recently opened up to ET about the her "very personal" new album. Check out what she had to say in the video below.
We're not surprised that Lady Gaga is showing off her abs -- just that she's not in costume while doing so!
The American Horror Story star flashed her impressive abs while out in her hometown of New York City on Saturday.
Gaga, 30, beat the heat in a navy blue crop top and itty bitty denim cut-offs, which she paired with dark sunnies, chain necklaces, and black embellished motorcycle boots.
Though it's been models like Gigi and Bella Hadid and Kendall Jenner who've been showing us their toned tummies lately, Gaga looked like she could double for Miley Cyrus in her very '90s outfit and that blonde bun.
MORE: Lady Gaga Debuts Raw, Rockin' 'Perfect Illusion' Music Video
The recently single pop star has been hard at work, concentrating on her music. Earlier this month, she was officially announced as the Super Bowl 2017 halftime performer, and she recently released the tracklist for her new album, Joanne. The EP will drop on Oct. 21 and feature a special collaboration with Florence Welch.
Speaking of Hadid, she just showed off her killer abs while sporting a tube top during Milan Fashion Week. Check out her take on the grunge look in the video below.
Kylie and Kendall Jenner have done it, now Joe Jonas and Demi Lovato have done it. Is getting stuck in an elevator officially a thing now?
The former Camp Rock couple spent four hours or more cooped up in an elevator in Los Angeles on Thursday.
Jonas, 27, posted a Snapchat video during their wait to be rescued, panning the camera to show Lovato in the background, along with members of his band, DNCE -- all looking extremely over it.
"We've been stuck in an elevator for four hours," the "Cake by the Ocean" singer explained.
Later that night, after escaping, Lovato brought DNCE and Jonas on stage during her performance at L.A. Live to sing their song, "Toothbrush."
Like Jonas and Lovato, the Jenner sisters have also had a recent brush with being trapped in an elevator. Their ordeal happened earlier this month, during New York Fashion Week, when they were stuck along with pals Hailey Baldwin and Jordyn Woods.
That scenario almost ended badly when Kylie realized Kendall had eaten a granola bar, which turned out to be all the food they had. Fortunately, the women were rescued by the fire department before they had to resort to a Hunger Games-style battle for survival.
Check out the as-told-on-Snapchat story in this video.
Famed golfer Arnold Palmer died on Sunday in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, ET can confirm. He was 87.
Golf Digest tweeted the news early Sunday evening as well, sharing, "Arnold Palmer has passed away at 87 years old. Rest in peace, Arnie. You are forever a legend in golf and in life."
The former golf pro, fondly nicknamed The King, was one of the greatest players the sport has ever seen, winning numerous events on both the PGA Tour and Champions Tour. Palmer became the first person to win the Masters four times, receiving the famed green jacket, and is fifth on the all-time wins list for the PGA Tour.
  
He is one of golf's most popular players, the first true superstar of the sport when the television age began, and along with Jack Nicklaus and Gary Player is considered part of "The Big Three."

“Today marks the passing of an era," said Alastair Johnston, Palmer's longtime agent. "Arnold Palmer’s influence, profile and achievements spread far beyond the game of golf. He was an iconic American who treated people with respect and warmth, and built a unique legacy through his ability to engage with fans.”

PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Palmer started playing the sport early, breaking 100 at just 8-years-old, which paved the way to his hall-of-fame career. In fact, he was one of the original 13 inductees welcomed into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1974 and won the PGA Tour Lifetime Achievement Award in 1998. And, yes, the Arnold Palmer drink, which consists of iced tea and lemonade, was named after him.

He is survived by his second wife, Kit; his daughters, Amy (Roy) Saunders and Peggy (Stewart) Bryan; six grandchildren; numerous great-grandchildren; his brother, Jerry, and sisters, Sandra Sarni and Lois “Cheech” Tilly.

Many celebrities from the sports and entertainment worlds took to Twitter following the news of Palmer's death to share their memories of the golfing great.
The Backstreet Boys gave fans a sneak peek at what their Las Vegas residency will look like when they took the stage at the iHeartRadio Music Festival for a surprise performance on Saturday.
The boy band rocked the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada, performing some of their biggest hits from the last two decades in an unannounced appearance that sent fans into a frenzy.
Nick Carter, A.J. McLean, Kevin Richardson, Brian Littrell and Howie Dorough performed a short set of their own hits, and were then joined on stage by country stars Tyler Hubbard and Brian Kelly of Florida Georgia Line for an epic rendition of their 1997 smash hit "Everybody (Backstreet's Back)."
The guys looked ready to rule the Vegas strip, rocking black and hot pink ensembles while slaying their beloved chart-toppers, including their 1999 track, "I Want it That Way."
The news of the Backstreet Boys' Las Vegas residency, at Planet Hollywood's The Axis Theater, broke on Friday when the group released a statement announcing the new show's title will be Larger Than Life.
"If you've ever been to a Backstreet Boys show, it's going to be that on steroids," Littrell shared in the statement.
Tickets for Larger Than Life go on sale Oct. 1. The first shows are slated for March and June 2017. Check here for a complete list of dates.
On Saturday, McLean opened up to ET about the upcoming Sin City shows, and dished on how Britney Spears influenced their decision to sign on for the residency experience.
"She literally said, 'This is the best job ever!'" McClean recalled. "She said that it's hard work, but easy in the sense that you get to be with your family more than when you’re on tour, and have somewhat of a normal life." Check out the video below to hear more from the singer about the band's exciting new Vegas run.
Congratulations are in order for Alan Tudyk!
The Rogue One: A Star Wars Story star married his fiancée, choreographer Charissa Barton, at The Paramour Estate in Los Angeles' Silver Lake neighborhood on Saturday, the newlyweds confirmed via People.
Barton wore a gorgeous, strapless Vera Wang gown, while Tudyk was quite dapper in his Armani tuxedo and bow tie. 
EXCLUSIVE: Nathan Fillion and Alan Tudyk Dish on 'Con Man,' 'Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2' and Wild Comic-Con Fans
Family and friends enjoyed food from Contemporary Catering and dessert, including cake and ice cream sandwiches, from Vanilla Bake Shop & Ron's Artisanal Ice Cream, while flowers were provided by Catalina Neal, according to People.
On Friday, Tudyk -- who is also known for roles in the cult series Firefly, as well as movies like DodgeBall: A True Underdog Story, A Knight's Tale, and Tucker & Dave vs. Evil -- jokingly tweeted to fans, asking for tips on what to do on his wedding day. Barton responded in hilarious fashion: "@AlanTudyk Get married at the same time that I do, same venue, same altar. #cantwait."
ET's Cameron Mathison spoke with Tudyk in February, shortly after he got engaged, where the 45-year-old actor joked about how lucky his then-fiancée was to be taking on his last name. "She's going to be Charissa Tudyk," he said at the Zootopia premiere in Los Angeles, before teasing his bride-to-be, "You lucky lady!"
As the baseball community mourned the loss of Miami Marlins pitcher Jose Fernandez on Sunday, several MLB teams paid tribute to the young Cuban pitcher, who died at 24 after a boating accident early Sunday morning, along with two other men.
The Marlins canceled their Sunday game against the Atlanta Braves in order to help Fernandez’s teammates begin to cope with the loss. They also set up a tribute to the young pitcher on the mound at Marlins Park, and fans contributed to a makeshift memorial outside the ballpark.
Other teams around the league also remembered the two-time All-Star and 2013 NL Rookie of the Year with moments of silence and dugout memorials.
Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder Yasiel Puig, who, like Fernandez, defected from Cuba and made his MLB debut in 2013, hung a No. 16 Fernandez Dodgers jersey in the team’s dugout for their game against the San Diego Padres, after sharing a touching tribute to his friend on social media.
Yoenis Cespedes of the New York Mets also hung a Fernandez jersey in his team’s dugout for their game against the Philadelphia Phillies, and the Minnesota dugout featured a No. 16 Twins jersey as they faced off against the Seattle Mariners.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Many MLB teams, like the Houston Astros, Minnesota Twins and Detroit Tigers, also observed a moment of silence for Fernandez prior to their games.
Fernandez's loss wasn’t merely felt in the baseball community. ESPN analyst and former Marlins hitting coach Eduardo Perez opened up about how much the young ace -- who helped boost Marlins ticket sales and TV viewership numbers whenever he played -- meant to the city of Miami. The city’s NFL franchise, the Dolphins, also held a moment of silence for the pitcher before their home game against the Cleveland Browns.
Country crooner Cam is a married woman!
The "Burning House" singer wed Adam Weaver on Saturday, ET can confirm.
According to People, the intimate ceremony took place in the desert town of Joshua Tree, California, in front of around 140 guests. Cam wore a Jenny Packham gown and walked down the aisle to the classic Mexican love song, "Bésame Mucho," performed by a Mariachi band. The couple shared their first dance to Miranda Lambert's "Oklahoma Sky."
ET caught up with the 31-year-old singer last month at rehearsals for the 2016 ACM Honors, where she dished on her wedding plans, which included the aforementioned mariachi band, as well as a fortune teller and a churro cart!
"Basically [we said] what is it that you really, really, really want and that will make you have the best night ever on top of getting to marry your best friend," she said at the time.
The Grammy-nominated songstress also opened up about how she knew that Weaver, 30, was "the one," revealing that they had been friends for a while, but it had never been the right time for them to date. "And then one time, we just hung out -- it had been years [since] we just hung out and sat -- and we were sharing some gin and tonics, and he just put his arm around me and I was like, ‘This is it.'"
Ben Higgins and Lauren Bushnell found love at the end of the last season of The Bachelor, and the two are still going strong, even in the face of critics who have been body shaming the 26-year-old flight attendant for being too skinny.
The couple spoke to ET at the iHeartRadio Music Festival at the T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada, on Friday, where they opened up about dealing with online haters and moving on with their lives.
"It is hard because you start to question yourself, but I think for me, I've really tried to accept who I am and honestly accept that you can't change that," Bushnell shared. "We're very busy, so I'm not going to spend free time that I have trying to change the person I was made to be."
"I've tried to accept the role that I've been given and try to tell young women that it's OK to be who you are," she continued. "No matter how you're built or who you are, be who you are, because that's the most beautiful that you will ever be -- ever!"
As for her fiancé, the 28-year-old former Bachelor praised his future wife for handing her critics "very well," but admitted that it's not always easy to brush off the mean comments, especially considering how ubiquitous body shaming and bullying is these days.
"The moment that really sticks out to me is when we were sitting on the couch one day and she was reading through some of the stuff, and she was like, 'You know, I'm a confident, independent woman who is in love with somebody. What do the people out there, the middle schoolers, the high schoolers, how do they feel about themselves when they hear this when they feel alone?' Higgins recalled. "It's tough, but as a couple, we work through it."
The 28-year-old reality star also opened up about meeting with the upcoming Bachelor, Nick Viall, and the personal advice Higgins shared about finding love.
"For Lauren and I, we're in love and we've made this work, but it hasn't always been easy. We don't want to hide that, but it's been really good. My advice to Nick was, 'You can come out of this with a very serious relationship, but before you do, make sure it's someone you want to commit to,'" Higgins said. "'Make sure it's someone you want to pursue, that you wanna work through all this with, because if not, it can get hard.'"
"The reason I think it was easy for Lauren and I was because, no matter what [happened] and no matter argument we're having, no matter what situation was brought up, at the end of the day, we were both looking at each other like, 'This isn't going to break us. We just gotta get through it,'” he added.
Higgins and Bushnell might be glad to be out of The Bachelor's shadow, but they aren't done with reality TV just yet. The couple are starring in their own reality show, Ben & Lauren: Happily Ever After?, which premieres  Oct. 11 on Freeform.
When the couple recently sat down with ET, Higgins opened up about passing on the Bachelor torch to Viall, explaining, "I'm excited to no longer be referred to as 'the Bachelor!" Check out the pair's adorable sit-down in the video below.
If you don't think Olympians can get star struck, think again!
Laurie Hernandez absolutely freaked out when she was introduced to Tori Kelly for the first time over the weekend, and it was spectacularly adorable.
The Dancing With the Stars competitor was hanging out backstage before Kellogg's Tour of Gymnastics Champions, which she was performing in on Saturday with her fellow Team USA gymnasts, when the "Dear No One" singer surprised her megafan.
When Kelly entered the hallway, Hernandez threw her hands over her mouth and did a little dance, uttering "Stop! Oh my gosh!" before giving the singer a huge hug. The two even sweetly shared their love for each other once Hernandez (kind of) calmed down.
"OH. MY. GOSH!!!😱 @torikelly (don't worry, I said hi to the little girl❤️) pt 1," the New Jersey native captioned the video, referencing the young lady you can see waving at the gymnast during her freak out, who she did indeed say hello to in part two of the Instagram clips.
It kept getting cuter, with the 16-year-old Olympian staying positively giddy throughout the surprise meeting.
Kelly, 23, shared her own video of the encounter, and it's clear the two starlets made a mark on each other.
"Just got to surprise this cutie before she hit the stage🙈 so glad we finally got to meet!! you're a sweet soul @lauriehernandez_," she wrote.
EXCLUSIVE: Tori Kelly Got Emotional Seeing Prince During 'Very Moving' Emmys In Memoriam Rehearsal
Hernandez has had a ton of luck lately when it comes to meeting her celeb idols! Not only did she get a video greeting from her beloved Adam Levine, she got to meet Zac Efron in person when he surprised Team USA in Rio.
See more about Efron's epic visit with the Final Five -- especially Simone Biles, who has a major crush on the Neighbors 2 star -- in the video below.
Jennifer Aniston stepped out with her husband Justin Theroux on Saturday night in New York City, enjoying a quiet dinner date while the drama around Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's split continues to swirl.
Looking chic in all black and strappy heels, the 47-year-old actress dined at The Smile restaurant with Theroux, 45, who was also dressed in all black. Though Aniston has not yet commented publicly on the breakup, photogs did catch her flashing a small smile.
The Mother's Day star has been in New York with Theroux since shortly after news broke that Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt, Aniston's ex-husband. Theroux is in the Big Apple to promote his new film, The Girl on the Train.
Pitt met Jolie in 2005 on the set of Mr & Mrs Smith while still married to Aniston.
In the latest on the drama surrounding the Hollywood power couple's relationship, Jolie moved with their six children -- Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8 -- into a Malibu mansion. 
Take a closer look at the beachfront sanctuary in the video below. 
Leave it to Kate Middleton to look flawless on both land and water.
The royals are currently on their first family tour abroad, visiting various cities in Canada. The couple and their two children, 3-year-old Prince George and 16-month-old Princess Charlotte, just touched down in Victoria, the capital of British Columbia, on Saturday, and they're already off to a new locale!
Kate and Prince William boarded a sea plane en route to Vancouver, about 70 miles north of Victoria, on Sunday. The Duchess of Cambridge looked flawless in a gorgeous red-and-white printed Alexander McQueen dress, which she paired with a matching clutch and pumps, while the Duke made his own dapper mark in a black suit.
The official Twitter account of Kensington Palace shared plenty of pics of the couple making their way to Vancouver, including our favorite, very accurate tweets stating, "All on board!" and "What a great way to arrive in the city!"
No kidding!
Kate and William's first stop was to the non-profit, Sheway, which helps vulnerable mothers overcome addiction. The royals visited with staff, as well as mothers and their children who benefit from the charity in Vancouver's Downtown Eastside. "Supporting families affected by addiction is a major priority of The Duchess's work," Kensington Palace tweeted.
MORE: Prince William Helps an Elderly Lord to His Feet as Kate Middleton Looks On
Sheway sweetly tweeted about the royal visit, writing, "It was a tremendous honour to host the Duke and Duchess here at our Sheway home. **spoiler alert: they are unbelievably warm and kind."
Their next stop was to Immigrant Services Society of BC, where Kate and William, both 34, met with a young family from Syria. They were also joined by Canadian Prime Minster Justin Trudeau and his wife, Sophie.
It's a very busy day for the pair, who were on their way to the TELUS Garden after visiting ISSBC. The royal family is set to be in Canada through Oct. 1.
Josh Brolin is a married man!
The 48-year-old actor and his girlfriend of three years, Kathryn Boyd, tied the knot on Saturday during a private ceremony in North Carolina.
Brolin shared a gorgeous black-and-white photo on Sunday of the newlyweds looking absolutely ecstatic after they were pronounced man and wife. He captioned the image with a poem from e. e. cummings and added a note from both him and Boyd that read, "Thank you to all who were involved and made the trek: friends and family alike. We love you all dearly, deeply, and without measure. ❤️JB&KB."
Boyd shared the same photo as well as one of the two on the dance floor, with Brolin kissing his new wife's forehead.
Though there were rumors of Bradley Cooper and Matt Damon attending, the couple were surrounded by close family and friends who used the hashtag #jbkbstucktogether to document the festivities. 
Ever since the happy couple got engaged in May of last year, Brolin has been documenting their love on social media.
"My partner in crime," he captioned a photo of himself and Boyd posing by the ocean. "Yesterday we robbed a bank. Today we're thinking about painting the town red like that Clint Eastwood western. Tomorrow...sh*t, tomorrow I think we're laying low, recovering, coming up with some other debaucherous act after a little shuteye. #lookbehindyou #nowheresafe #bonnieandclyde #saltyanddumb." 
"You just make things...better. @kathrynboyd_ #stucktogether," he captioned another sweet photo. 
MORE: 'Odd Mom Out' Star Abby Elliott Marries Bill Kennedy -- See Her Gorgeous Wedding Dress!
Boyd also shared a few candid moments with the Sicario star, including a recent trip to Santa Fe, New Mexico, and a romantic getaway to Italy. 
This marks Brolin's third time walking down the aisle. He was previously married to actress Alice Adair, with whom he had two children, 28-year-old Trevor and 22-year-old Eden. The two split in 1994. He was later married Diane Lane from 2004 to 2013.
In a voice choked with emotion, Miami Marlins coach Don Mattingly, recalled the "joy" of watching pitcher Jose Fernandez play baseball, during a press conference on Sunday. Fernandez, 24, died in a boating accident early Sunday morning, along with two other men.
"I see such a little boy in him with the way he played," Mattingly told reporters, speaking haltingly and visibly distressed. "There was just joy with him when he played, and when he pitched. And I think that's what the guys would say, too."
"As mad as he would make you with some of the stuff he would do, you just see that little kid you see when you watch kids play little league or something like that," the coach added. "That's the joy Jose played with and the passion he felt about playing." 
Fernandez was a rising star and his death has understandably hit the baseball community hard. Major League Baseball tweeted a heartbreaking video of Marlins infielder Dee Gordon kneeling at the mound in front of an impromptu memorial with Ferndandez’s jersey number, 16, and a baseball cap. 
Friends, teammates and fellow baseball pros took to social media to mourn their loss.
"I'm still waiting to wake up from this nightmare. I lost my brother today and can't quite comprehend it. The shock is overwhelming," wrote Marlins teammate Giancarlo Stanton in an emotional Instagram post. "What he meant to me, our team, the city of Miami, Cuba & everyone else in the world that his enthusiasm/heart has touched can never be replaced. I can't fathom what his family is going through because we, as his extended family, are a wreck.
"I gave him the nickname Niño because he was just a young boy amongst men," he continued. "Yet those men could barely compete with him. He had his own level, one that was changing the game. EXTRAORDINARY, as a person before the player. Yet still just a kid, who's joy lit up the stadium more than lights could. A kid whose time came too soon. One that I will miss & never forget. Rest In Peace Niño, Jose Fernandez."
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Hall of Famer Mike Piazza also weighed in, tweeting, "Shocked and saddened at the news of #JoseFernandez passing, a tragic end to a man with talent and passion, May the Lord grant eternal rest." 
Los Angeles Dodgers outfielder and fellow Cuban Yasiel Puig tweeted a photo of himself with a smiling Fernandez, captioning it, "You loved striking me out, and teasing me about it. I'm going to miss you bro." 
"I'm proud to have called Jose Fernandez my friend and teammate," wrote former Marlins player Grant Dayton. "He always made me smile. I will miss him and my heart breaks for his family." 
More reactions poured in as the news spread.
Just last week, Fernandez posted a beautiful photo of his pregnant girlfriend looking forward to welcoming their first child. "I'm so glad you came into my life," he wrote. "I'm ready for where this journey is gonna take us together. #familyfirst."
Fernandez was born in Cuba but defected to America in 2008, saving his mother’s life when she was washed overboard along the way. 
Television legend Jane Pauley has been named the new anchor of CBS Sunday Morning, the nation's No. 1 Sunday morning news program, it was announced today by CBS News President David Rhodes.
The 65-year-old journalist will succeed Charles Osgood as anchor. Osgood is retiring from the series on Sept. 25 after 22 years as anchor of the award-winning broadcast 45 years total at CBS News.
Pauley's first broadcast in the new role will be Oct. 9, when she'll become only the third anchor in the history of Sunday Morning.
Pauley joined Sunday Morning in 2014 as a contributor. Since then, she's been a substitute host and has delivered a steady stream of high-profile interviews and reporting to the broadcast.
"Charles Osgood set the standard for CBS Sunday Morning," Pauley said. "And it's a great honor to be given the chance to further our show's legacy of excellence. I look forward to bringing loyal viewers the kind of engaging, original reporting that has made the broadcast so irresistible for so long."
"Jane Pauley is the ideal host for the most wide-ranging news program on American culture, our beloved CBS Sunday Morning broadcast," said Rhodes. "Charles Osgood is a television news legend -- and so is Jane Pauley."
"We first got to know Jane when we did a story about her on Sunday Morning," said Rand Morrison, Executive Producer of CBS Sunday Morning. "Our viewers immediately responded by suggesting she belonged on Sunday Morning permanently. And, as is so often the case, they were right. She's a dedicated, experienced broadcast journalist. But, every bit as important, she's a delight to work with. A worthy successor and a perfect fit."
Highlights of Pauley's work on the broadcast include a profile of Hillary Rodham Clinton; a moving interview with 11-year-old Marquis Govan​, who became a voice of reason in the aftermath of the Ferguson, Mo., shooting of an unarmed man by a police officer; the only TV interview with David Letterman​ about his retirement from late-night television; and a report on a group of educators who lived through the shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School​ in Newtown, Connecticut, and are now fighting to change gun control laws.
Pauley, a member of the Broadcast and Cable Hall of Fame, is the recipient of multiple Emmy Awards; the Walter Cronkite Award for Excellence in Journalism; the Edward R. Murrow Award for outstanding achievement; and the Gracie Allen Award from the Foundation of American Women in Radio & Television.
Before joining CBS News, Pauley was a familiar face on morning, daytime and primetime television. She began her network television career in 1976 as a co-host of NBC's Today show. She spent 13 years on the morning broadcast and a decade as the anchor of Dateline NBC, starting in 1992. She was also the host of the syndicated daytime series The Jane Pauley Show in 2004.
Pauley has written two New York Times bestsellers: a memoir, Skywriting: A Life Out of the Blue (Ballantine Books 2004) and Your Life Calling: Reimagining the Rest of Your Life (Simon & Schuster 2014), based on her award-winning series on Today about people 50 and over starting different careers, learning new skills, making a difference, or pursuing their dreams.
A longtime advocate in children's health and education, Pauley is also a highly-regarded spokesperson in mental health.
She and her husband, Doonesbury cartoonist Garry Trudeau, are the parents of three grown children and grandparents to two.
Nicole Richie had an epic theme party for her 35th birthday!
The mom of two partied the night away at a disco-themed bash in Los Angeles on Friday with her A-list friends, including Kate Hudson, Jessica Alba, and sister-in-law, Cameron Diaz.
The birthday girl easily stole the show in a gold-sequined halter bodysuit, while her gal pals made sure to stick with the theme in disco-inspired looks.
In fact, Hudson channelled her Almost Famous character in a selfie with Richie which she captioned, "Happy birthday gorgeous!"
Alba shared party snapshots as well, including one with all the girls, her husband, Cash Warren, and a few other guy. 
Despite the group pic, it seems like the party was mostly a girls night out with Richie and her friends.
MORE: Nicole Richie and Kate Hudson Attempt to Give Joel Madden a Snapchat Lesson: 'This Is Gonna Take Weeks'
The House of Harlow founder shared a sweet video wrap-up on Saturday of her birthday festivities, featuring snapshots of her father, Lionel Richie, in red heart-shaped glasses and an afro wig.
The after-party did feature some men, however, including Richie's husband, Joel Madden. Hudson and Richie appeared to spend quite a bit of time giving the Good Charlotte singer a Snapchat lesson.
Richie, who turned 35 on Wednesday, has been getting birthday love online from family and friends. Madden shared a sweet birthday dedication to his wife on Instagram earlier in the week. "Best Mom,Best Friend, Best Wife," he captioned a photo of himself and Richie. "Happy Birthday Nicole, You keep us all laughing."
Now that's how you celebrate a birthday!
EXCLUSIVE: Nicole Richie Inspiration For Her House of Harlow Collaboration — Her Kids!
Hey, guys. We're really sorry about this. When we wrote this listicle last year about couples who couldn't divorce or we'd lose all faith in love, we had no idea that we were bad luck psychics because, well, a lot of them split.
To be fair, it's kind of cool that we have such powers (we won't abuse them, we swear) and plenty of these A-list duos are still together. That's right -- we're looking at you, Tom Hanks and Rita Wilson, Chris Pratt and Anna Faris, and Kimye!
But now that Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt have split up, we're more heartbroken than ever. ET confirmed on Tuesday that the 41-year-old actress had filed for divorce from the World War Z star, her husband of two years, on Sept. 15.
While we mourn the glory that was Brad and Angie, let's break out the tissues, pop in some rom-com DVDs (it's how they would want it, having met on the set of Mr. & Mrs. Smith in the aughts and all), and look back at the seven other once beautiful Hollywood loves that have all split since last summer.
PHOTOS: Looking Back at Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's Sweetest Moments
1. Ben Affleck and Jennifer Garner
When Bennifer split in July 2015, it was the beginning of the end for A-list love. Once these two went kaput, it seemed many of our beloved duos followed suit. Impressively, however, Ben and Jen have remained quite amicable -- they are spotted together frequently and always seem to put their three children -- 10-year-old Violet, 7-year-old Seraphina, and 4-year-old Samuel -- first.
Interestingly, just like Brangelina, this love started on-set -- the pair met while filming Daredevil in 2003. Maybe this says more about dating coworkers than anything else?
PHOTOS: From On-Screen Co-Stars to Real-Life Romance
2. Blake Shelton and Miranda Lambert
This was the rapid-fire divorce heard around the country world -- nay, the whole world. After ten years together, four of them spent married, no one expected these two beloved country crooners to not just split but to do so incredibly quickly. If you think this was tough for us to process, imagine how difficult it was for the two actually involved.
In the cover story for Cosmopolitan's January 2016 issue, Miranda admitted that she was still processing what went wrong and how to move on, though she clearly has with her new beau, crooner Anderson East. "[Marriage is] a tough business, and we gave it our best college try," she said of her split from the "Sangria" singer.
As for Blake, he is famously head over heels for his new girlfriend, fellow Voice judge Gwen Stefani. And, boy, do they let us know it. Not only that, but he recently released If I'm Honest, while Miranda's new album, Wings, will drop in November, meaning their music is providing a lot of insight into both of their coping mechanisms over the last year.
3. Gwen Stefani and Gavin Rossdale
The cream of the rockstar couple crop bit the dust in August 2015, one month after news broke about Blake and Miranda's divorce. Gwen has credited her new beau, Blake, for saving her after her marriage of 13 years crumbled, telling Refinery 29, "It was a really super-unexpected gift to find a friend, somebody who happened to be going through the exact same thing as me, literally mirroring my experience. I don't think it's an accident that that happened. It saved me."
The No Doubt frontwoman channeled her sadness into her third solo album, This Is What the Truth Feels Like. Released in March, the achingly truthful tracks were inspired by both Gavin and Blake, plus the EP is her first to score the No. 1 Album spot on the Billboard 200 Chart. How's that for turning heartbreak on its head?
Gwen and Gavin did not sign a pre-nup but have worked out shared custody of their three sons, 10-year-old Kingston, 8-year-old Zuma, and 2-year-old Apollo.
4.  Joshua Jackson and Diane Kruger
It was hard not to love these two. Even if Joshua wasn't a sweetheart, we would've had a soft spot for him in our hearts anyway thanks to his teen hearthrob days as Pacey on Dawson's Creek, and Diane has not only a killer fashion sense but scene-stealing chops on the big screen. The two were open about not feeling the need to get married, and we appreciated their bohemian take on modern dating. But then, as if we needed prove that all good things come to an end, the couple parted ways in July after a decade together -- and just four months after moving in together.
5. Drew Barrymore and Will Kopelman
We were really rooting for Drew on this one. After a tumultuous childhood and failed, short-lived marriages to Jeremy Thomas in the '90s and Tom Green in the early aughts, the actress-producer had finally found love with art consultant Will Kopelman. The two settled down and had two adorable daughters, 3-year-old Olive and 2-year-old Frankie, but it wasn't meant to be -- Drew filed for divorce in April after four years of marriage.
6. Jon Hamm and Jennifer Westfeldt
This indie dream team wasn't married, but after nearly two decades together, we considered them a sure bet. They even started a production company, Points West Pictures, and appeared together in 2011's Friends With Kids, which Jennifer wrote and directed.
7. Demi Lovato and Wilmer Valderrama
These two former lovebirds may be the youngest on our list -- and boasted a 12-year age difference -- but they sure had staying power. Together for six years, Demi has credited Wilmer for sticking by her side and keeping her on track post-rehab, and she frequently gushed over him in interviews and on social media, which made it pretty surprising when they announced their breakup via Instagram in June.
BONUS: Beyonce and Jay Z
Queen Bey's magnum opus, Lemonade, hinted at infidelity and relationship issues, but the two have been going strong since the visual album dropped in April. Seriously, have you seen this PDA? Becky with the good hair may be out there, but Bey and Jay are A-OK.
Relive that time we had faith in love with the video below.
Kendall and Kylie Jenner are totally twinning!
The sisters added matching Ferrari Spiders to their car collection on Saturday, sharing shots of their black and silver convertibles on Snapchat before leaving the dealership
EXCLUSIVE: Kylie Jenner Dishes on Having More Fun as a Blonde and Being 'Inspired' By Yeezy Season 4
Kylie, 19, snapped a photo of Kendall, with the caption "she so corny" and a video of the 20-year-old model decked out in Ferrari gear.
"She's so embarrassing," Kylie joked as Kendall giddily posed in front of her new ride wearing a Ferrari T-shirt and hat, with a matching mug and keychain in hand.
Despite the embarrassment, Kylie later slipped into her own Ferrari T-shirt, which she documented in a Snapchat video that also showed Kendall driving off in her new ride.
The newly blonde teen gave another look at the "Sister Spiders" in a second video, showing fans close-up shots of both cars.
There's another insect hanging around Kylie, and it’s not a luxury ride. The teen is getting into the Halloween spirit ahead of schedule, as she revealed on Snapchat on Friday.
"I decorated my house for Halloween, its so cute! "she said in a video of the spooky decorations at her home, which included a humungous fake spider on her roof complete with spiderwebs, a skeleton, and a zombie.
The Miami Marlins's ace right-handed pitcher Jose Fernandez was killed in a boating accident along with two other people, the U.S. Coast Guard said Sunday.
According to the Coast Guard, the boat crash happened off Miami Beach early Sunday. "A boat crew from Coast Guard Station Miami was heading out on a law enforcement patrol at approximately 3:30 a.m. Sunday when they passed a jetty along Government Cut and discovered an overturned 33-foot center console boat on the jetty with three deceased aboard," the Coast Guard said in a statement.
The Marlins and others confirmed the death of one of the top pitchers in baseball. The identity of the other two men killed in the accident have not been revealed yet. No one was wearing a life vest.
Photos from the scene of the accident show an overturned boat on top of a jetty.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
During a news conference on Sunday, spokesman Lorenzo Veloz of the Florida fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission said that speed was suspected as a factor in the accident due to the impact with the jetty, according to USA Today Sports. No evidence of illegal drug use or alcohol was found.
Following the tragic news, the Marlins cancelled their home game against the Atlanta Braves that had been set for Sunday. In a statement, the Marlins say they are "devastated by the tragic loss of José Fernández. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family at this very difficult time."
Heartbreakingly, Fernandez's last Instagram post from earlier this week announced that his girlfriend was pregnant. "I'm so glad you came into my life," he captioned a black-and-white image of his girlfriend cradling her baby bump. "I'm ready for where this journey is going to take us. #familyfirst."
Fernandez, 24, was born in Cuba, and he defected to the U.S. in 2008. In 2013, he was voted the National League rookie of the year, and placed third in Cy Young Award voting.
In his MLB career he was 38-17 with an ERA of 2.58 and 589 strikeouts. Many considered him one of the sport's top pitchers.
Prince George and Princess Charlotte are getting their first look at Canada!
Prince William, Kate Middleton and their children have officially touched down in Victoria, British Columbia, for their visit with our neighbors up north. The trip is their first family tour since welcoming Charlotte in May 2015.
The family gracefully exited their plane on Saturday afternoon, adorably color-coordinated in shades of blue.
Kate wowed in a blue Jenny Packham suit with matching fascinator and Queen Elizabeth's diamond maple leaf brooch as she held 16-month-old Charlotte, who wore a baby blue dress and cute bow.
Prince George, 3, was adorably dressed in a blue sweater, shorts and knee-high socks, while his dad, Prince William, wore a classic navy suit and striped tie.
The family of four was warmly greeted by Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and his fashionably-dressed wife, Sophie, as well as other dignitaries.
The royal family is set to be in Canada through Oct. 1,  where they'll enjoy tours of Vancouver, Kelowna, Yukon,  Victoria and Haida Gwaii and learn about mental health issues as well as the country’s youth and indigenous population.
There will also be kid-friendly fun during the tour, as the royals are set to visit the Great Bear Rainforest on British Columbia's Central Coast on Monday and later attend a children's party at Government House.
While William and Kate will be keeping their children close throughout the tour, they recently opened up about their fears as parents. See more in the video below.
Demi Lovato is feeling like a "natural woman."
The 24-year-old singer took the stage at the Global Citizen Festival in New York on Saturday, where she didn't just join the organization's fight against poverty, she promoted a cause of her own.
Lovato -- who stepped in after Selena Gomez canceled her appearance due to health issues -- took the time to advocate for gender equality before performing Aretha Franklin's "Natural Woman."
"Thank you, global citizens, especially all of you who are working toward the global goal of gender equality and standing up for women and girls everywhere," she told the crowd. "This next one has inspired and  lifted up women everywhere for years, even since before I was born, and it still does."
"This is called 'You Make Me Feel Like a Natural Woman,' and it goes out to all the women and girls," she announced before completely slaying the Franklin hit.
Watch her performance below: 
Of course, Lovato couldn't leave without performing few of her own hits, including "Confident" and "Cool for the Summer."
MORE: Demi Lovato Does 'Undercover Lyft,' Sings 'Camp Rock' Songs With Riders
"Natural Woman" isn't the only hit Lovato has covered lately. Earlier this month, the former Disney star slayed Adele's "When We Were Young."
Check out that performance in the video below.
Kim Kardashian stands behind Hillary Clinton.
The 35-year-old reality star took to her app on Friday to publicly endorse the Democratic presidential nominee after reports surfaced that she was "on the fence" about who to vote for.
"A 'quote' of mine was released yesterday causing my phone to blow up by friends, family and even both candidates' camps, so I want to explain the context in which I said I was 'on the fence' about my vote," she starts her essay, referencing an excerpt from her recent Wonderland interview published by The Evening Standard.
Despite supporting Clinton at a fundraiser last month -- and even taking a quick selfie with the former First Lady -- Kardashian admits that she wasn't always sure about where to cast her vote.
"There was a point when I wasn't 100% sure I was even going to vote in this election; I didn't want to vote blindly," she continues. "But I also thought about how not voting would mean that I wasn't making my voice heard, so I decided to talk to my closest friends and family, who I love and trust, to have an open conversation about politics."
Kardashian says she then turned to a proud Republican family member, Caitlyn Jenner, for political advice.
"She encouraged me to do my research before making my decision and then vote for the candidate whose policies aligned with the things that matter most to me. And so that's what I did," the mother of two explains. "I thought about the things that are so important to me that they outweigh everything else, such as control and protecting women's rights to safe and legal abortion."
"I found that without a doubt, I stand with Hillary. I'm with her. I believe Hillary will best represent our country and is the most qualified for the job," she reveals. "This year, I'm not just voting for myself, but also for my children, and I took that into careful consideration when I made my decision."
Kardashian goes on to say that while she has publicly made her choice, she "would never judge anyone based on their political or religious beliefs."
"I believe that both candidates have the intention of making the country a safer and stronger place for every American, they just have different ideas about how we get there," she concludes. "God bless America for allowing us to even make these decisions -- there are so many in this world who are not so privileged."
MORE: Kim Kardashian Adds Crying Emojis of Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton to Her Presidential Kimoji Pack
While Kardashian has made her decision on who to support, Jenner recently stated that she "has not outwardly supported anybody."
"It was easy to come out as trans, it was harder to come out as Republican," she said at an RNC event hosted by the American Unity Fund.
Find out more in the video below.
While the world has been abuzz with news of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt's divorce, the 41-year-old actress and her children have sought sanctuary in a new Malibu home.
A source tells ET that Jolie and her six children -- Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8 -- moved into the Malibu rental on Monday, before news broke of the couple's split.
Jolie's newly rented Malibu home sits not far from the Pacific Coast Highway, and includes a private path down to the beach. While the lot sits on a relatively busy street overlooking a public parking lot for beach access, the gated home is surrounded by large trees, giving her and the kids privacy.
According to The Daily Mail, the five bedroom, five bath home is 4,409 square feet, and is worth close to $12 million. However, the Tomb Raider star is renting the property month-to-month at a price of $95,000.
Another source tells ET that "the beachside town is buzzing with news of the Jolie-Pitt family's arrival" and "can't believe" the family has moved to Malibu amid their recent family drama.
Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday, and requested full physical custody of their six children. Despite the actress' filing, and recent allegations of child abuse, a source told ET that Pitt has every intention of being with his children.
"I am very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well-being of our kids," he said in a statement to People on Tuesday. "I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time."
Regardless of the split, ET's source says that Pitt thinks Jolie is "a great mom."
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source stated. "He has also made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her. He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."

While the world is eager for JoJo Fletcher and Jordan Rodgers to start planning their wedding, it seems there's one person just a little more eager than the rest.
ET caught up with the couple at iHeartRadio Music Festival on Friday, where they revealed it's Rodgers' mom, Darla, who can’t wait for the two to get hitched!
"Oh my gosh," Fletcher said. "His mom has sent me so many wedding books!"
"My mom is on it!" Rodgers added.
"We've been talking about it," the former Bachelorette said of their nuptials. "We don't even know the first steps of what to do. Like, where are we going to do it?"
"Where is the number one question," Rodgers declared.
"It's where and when. We don't know," Fletcher confessed, adding that the couple's split family in California and Texas has proven difficult for nailing down a venue.
As for whether they plan on airing their "I do's" in a televised wedding special, the pair says they're not opposed to the idea.
"I think it's definitely a question," Fletcher revealed, "but right now we're just really enjoying being together. You know, it's funny, we got to be together on the show, but we haven't really dated. So this has been such a fun time tomove into our first home together, and to go on dates."
"We're exploring our area in Dallas, [having] date nights. [We're finding] restaurants that we like," said Rodgers, who travels to Charlotte, South Carolina, for his SEC gig every other week.
"It's been a few months now," Fletcher added. "Going through normal life together, going through hard times, good times, just normalcy is really amazing. We're enjoying it and having a blast."
While the couple just wrapped their stint on reality TV, Rodger’s brother, Greenbay Packers star Aaron, might be headed there himself on Dancing With the Stars.
See what he said about a future in reality TV in the video below.
Kylie Jenner has been looped into Tyga's legal battle.
Celebrity jeweler Jason Arasheben sued the "Rack City" rapper back in 2013, claiming he owes him an "excess of $270,000" in unpaid jewelry expenses. Now, the 19-year-old reality star must answer questions under oath regarding her boyfriend's finances.
Arasheben's attorney, Danny Abir of Abir, Cohen, Treyzon and Salo, tells ET that in addition to questioning Tyga, 26, about his support of income to maintain his luxurious lifestyle, he also plans to question Jenner about the extravagant gifts she's received from him, such as a snakeskin Gucci handbag, diamond promise ring, a $320,000 white Ferrari 482 Italia for her 18th birthday and a $200,000 black Mercedes Maybach for her 19th birthday in August.
According to court documents obtained by ET, both Tyga and Jenner are ordered to be available for examinations "between now and Oct. 6." Abir has agreed to conduct the questioning in a private setting, as opposed to a courthouse.
Abir also tells ET that the examinations will be done separately, and the line of questions will focus on Tyga's source of funds for the lavish presents he's given the lip kit maven.
"Our client, Jason of Beverly Hills, has a judgment against [Tyga]. Until he pays off this judgment, unless he has other means of paying off this obligation and does, his sources of income used to buy these extravagant gifts or to support such a lifestyle should be used to satisfy his obligation," Abir explained. "That potentially includes the gifts themselves."
"We will ask him questions related to his finances, such as to his source of income to support his lifestyle as well as to pay for the extravagant gifts he buys Ms. Jenner," he added. "He will have to answer under oath and so will Ms. Jenner."
Congratulations to Megan Hilty and her husband, Brian Gallagher!
The Broadway star and her husband announced they were expecting their second child on Friday -- in the most adorable way!
"#pregnancyannouncement," Hilty captioned their clever announcement on Instagram.
The couple, who married in November 2013, welcomed daughter Viola Philomena in September 2014.
While their new addition is sure to have a friend in big sis Viola, Hilty’s Broadway buds were quick to set up playdates with their soon-to-be little ones.
"Awww snap! Our play dates are gonna be lit! Right @LauraBenanti ? Congrats Mama!!!!" Audra McDonald, currently pregnant with her second child, wrote on Twitter.
"#BestFriendsForever whether they like it or not! @AudraEqualityMc @meganhilty," Laura Benanti, who announced she was expecting her first child last month, wrote back.
If their playdates are anything like Benanti's hysterical Melania Trump impression, sign us up!
Watch below:
Christina Aguilera is going back to her blonde roots!
Just months after going red, the 35-year-old singer debuted new platinum locks on Instagram.
"Blondes really do have more fun 💋," she posted on Friday, alongside a shot of her fresh blonde bombshell look.
The "Beautiful" singer certainly isn't afraid to experiment with color. She first became a red head in June, shortly after her Voice win.
And in May, the mother of two sported a lavender hue.
But back to Aguilera's Jessica Rabbit-inspired 'do, the singer rocked the look -- and her performance -- at Hillary Clinton's Los Angeles fundraiser.
Check it out in the video below.
Oh, the lifestyles of the rich and famous!
He always sees it on TV. Or reads it in the magazines. Now, Good Charlotte rocker Joel Madden finally knows what the Snapchat craze is all about, thanks to his wife, Nicole Richie, and pal Kate Hudson.
At an after party for Richie's 35th disco-themed birthday on Friday, he got a lesson on how to use the popular app, and it was hilariously documented by Hudson on her own account.
"How do you find your profile?" Madden, 37, asked in one of the videos.
Hudson gave an update a few minutes later, writing, "Almost there," as Madden revealed he had successfully added his first friend, professional wrestler Chris Jericho.
But after a while, Hudson apparently lost her patience. "I need to go home," the Deepwater Horizon star joked, as she panned her camera over to Richie. "This is gonna take weeks."
Hudson later took to Instagram to share a selfie of she and Richie, which was also featured on her Snapchat story. "Happy birthday gorgeous," she captioned it. "@nicolerichie #DiscoNight."
The birthday girl shared a collage of photos from the night in video form, simply captioning it, "35 #NightFever."
Meanwhile, Madden posted a snap of Richie and her dad, Lionel, matching in metallic gold ensembles.
And it looks like they had a blast, dancing the night away with actress Jessica Alba, fashionista Rachel Zoe, Who What Wear CEO Katherine Power and the Kardashian's famous hair stylist, Jen Atkin.
So fab!
Kim Zolciak is feeling grateful to be alive.
A year after suffering a stroke, the Don't Be Tardy star took to Instagram on Friday reflect on how her life has changed, and encourage others to be mindful of warning signs.
"1 year ago today my life changed. Having a stroke has changed me in so many ways," she began her emotional post. "At 37 I thought I was invincible ..boy was I wrong. I thank God everyday that I’m still here on this planet."
Zolciak suffered a transient ischemic attack (TIA) on Sept. 24, 2015, while competing on Dancing With the Stars. According to Zolciak, the stroke occurred moments after arriving home from a red-eye flight from Los Angeles.
"I didn't know that would be my last dance, however I wasn't feeling that good that day, even @tonydovolani noticed something was off but rather than listen to myself I pushed through. Not smart," she wrote. "We have to listen to ourselves, especially us women. We put our husband and children before us often times and we need to really listen to our bodies. There is (usually) warning signs."
"Had I not taken excedrin migraine the day before the stroke, I'm not so sure where I would be (has aspirin In it which thinned my blood),” she continued. “Listen to your body, it can happen at any age. Love you guys and appreciate all your support! Maybe someday Tony & I will make it back to an All Star addition 😉😘😘 #DWTS #OneOfTheBestThingsIHaveEverDone #TakeCareOfYou."
Zolciak was forced to withdraw from DWTS days after suffering the blood clot, as she was advised by her doctor not to fly back to Los Angeles.
"I'm honestly worried," her partner Tony Dovolani said on the show. "A stroke is nothing to mess around with, whether it's minor or massive."
"I want to thank everyone for their love and support over the past few days," Zolciak said in a statement at the time. "I am now home with my family, resting and taking care of my health. I can't express enough how much I love dancing and this whole experience."'
See more in the video below.
The Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture received one heck of a grand opening.
President Barack Obama and Michelle Obama were both on hand at the museum’s dedication ceremony at the National Mall on Saturday, which drew famous faces both on the stage and in the crowd.
"We're not a burden on American or a stain on America or an object of shame and pity for America. We are America,"Obama powerfully stated. "And that's what this museum explains. Hopefully, this museum makes us talk to each other and listen to each other and see each other."
Obama wasn't the only president at the event; he welcomed President George W. Bush -- and his wife Laura -- as guests of honor. The legislation for the establishment of the museum, the first national museum devoted exclusively to African American history and culture, was first authorized by Bush in 2003, almost 100 years after it was first proposed.
"The lesson of this museum is that all Americans share a past -- and a future… By staying true to our principles, righting injustice, and encouraging the empowerment of all, we will be an even greater nation for generations to come," Bush said during his speech, before getting a hug from the first lady.
Also taking the stage was Stevie Wonder, who gave a brief speech before performing a new song.
"This cannot go on, all of it, any of it," he said about today's political climate. "All the back and forth, the hatred, trying to divide us a united people."
"It can't go on. History has shown us that we can rise," he continued. "As you visit the story of a people, a country, a spirit, remember our strength. Remember our courage. Know that we must come together. We must come together."
Other famous speakers included Will Smith and Oprah Winfrey, (who was the museum's highest private donor, giving $21 million), Robert DeNiro and Angela Basset, and Patti LaBelle.
While some took the stage, other stars like John Legend, Octavia Spencer and Ava DuVernay  enjoyed speeches from the crowd, sharing their reactions to the historic event on social media.
It's a girl for Olivia Wilde and Jason Sudeikis!
The Vinyl star, who is pregnant with the couple's second child, subtly revealed via Twitter on Saturday that their 2-year-old son, Otis, will soon be a big brother to a baby girl.
Wilde tweeted a link to a video slamming presidential nominee Donald Trump for his disrespectful comments on females and body image, which was originally posted by Hillary Clinton. "As someone who is about to have a daughter, this hits me deep in my core," Wilde wrote. "#NeverTrump."
Earlier in the day, the New York native, who has been a longtime supporter of Clinton, seemed to be in good spirits when she was spotted out and about in the Big Apple.
Wilde put her baby bump on full display, rocking an adorable pair of denim overalls over a white tank top. She completed her trendy maternity look with Converse kicks, oversized sunglasses and a choker necklace.
On Wednesday, the 32-year-old actress joked that she was due in three weeks and "successfully did not give birth onstage" while attending the Friars Club Icon Award event honoring her Vinyl director, Martin Scorsese.
Wilde turned heads on the red carpet as she donned a flowy, loose-fitting Valentino dress with Vita Fede Jewelry.
And it sounds like her son is beyond excited to be a big brother! When ET caught up with Sudeikis at The Angry Birds Movie premiere in Los Angeles in May, the 41-year-old actor revealed Otis' reaction to the exciting news.
To hear what the toddler had to say, watch the video below!
AJ McLean is ready to make history!
The Backstreet Boys singer opened up to ET about the band’s upcoming Las Vegas residency and how Britney Spears influenced their final decision.
“We’ve known Brit for years. Me and Kevin went to see her show earlier this year and right before it started she had me come up to her dressing room to take a selfie with us,” McLean tells ET. “We started talking and I was asking lots of questions [about her show], ‘How do you like this? Is it cool? Cause we’re trying to do the same thing.’”
“She literally said, ‘This is the best job ever!’ She said that it’s hard work, but easy in the sense that you get to be with your family more than when you’re on tour, and have somewhat of a normal life ,” he continued.
EXCLUSIVE: AJ McLean on Lou Pearlman’s Death: 'I'll Always Be Grateful for the Opportunity He Gave Me'
On Friday, the GRAMMY-nominated band announced their official residency at Las Vegas’ The AXIS Theater at Planet Hollywood, which currently plays host to Spears' hit Piece of Me show, as well Jennifer Lopez’s All I Have and Lionel Richie’s All The Hits residencies.
Tickets for the show, named Larger Than Life, go on sale beginning Oct. 1, with the concerts slated for March and June 2017.
McLean says they have big plans for the production and promises a “mind-blowing” show, which will incorporate the group’s greatest hits and possible theatrical throwbacks to some of the band’s biggest tours, like 1999’s worldwide "Millennium" trek.
“We’re hopefully going to have some of the biggest elements from all of our biggest tours, songs and shows,” explained McLean, who is also preparing to release his new solo album Naked early next year.
“This whole city is about live shows and being over-the-top, so it’s going to be no-holds-barred. It will be the biggest show we’ve ever done in 24 years because it’s fricken Vegas – we gotta go big! We literally want people breathless as they leave.”
EXCLUSIVE: Heartthrobs from Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC, 98 Degrees and O-Town Do Battle in ‘Dead 7'
The singer also revealed that the set list will focus on hits like “I Want It That Way” and “Everybody (Backstreet’s Back)” rather than music from the band’s forthcoming 10th album, and also teased that solo numbers and acoustic sets might also be part of the show.
Fans can also expect a bit of eye-candy! “I’m in the best shape I’ve been in since before I was 30,” said McLean when asked about performing shirtless. “So it could happen!”
For more from the group -- including details on their next album -- watch the interview below.
Long before Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie became one of Hollywood's most beloved couples, they were living separate lives with different people, while rising to fame in the acting world.
The duo, who announced they were divorcing after two years of marriage on Tuesday, has had their fair share of hot hookups. From fast flings with co-stars to real-life romances, ET is breaking down Pitt and Jolie's famous arm candy over the years.
Brad Pitt and Jennifer Aniston, 1998-2005
When Pitt fell in love with Jolie on the set of Mr. and Mrs. Smith, he was still married to Aniston. The two said "I do" in Malibu, California, in 2000, after dating since 1998 when they were set up on a blind date by both of their agents. "I have to think there's some reason I have called this into my life," Aniston revealed to Vanity Fair in Sept. 2005, her first interview following the split. "I have to believe that -- otherwise it's just cruel."
Angelina Jolie & Billy Bob Thornton, 1999 – 2003
Jolie met Thornton on the set of 1999's Pushing Tin. They dated for two months before saying "I do," later divorcing in 2003. "It was a crazy time," the actor told The Hollywood Reporter of their whirlwind romance in Oct. 2014. "I've never been fond of it."
Brad Pitt and Christina Applegate, 1989
After dating Pitt briefly, the Bad Moms star (who also played Aniston's sister on Friends) took the actor as her date to the MTV Movie Awards in 1989, but ditched him to hang out with another guy! During her appearance on Watch What Happens Live last August, she admitted that was the end to their short but sweet relationship (she has yet to reveal who the other guy was).
PHOTOS: Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's Sweetest Moments
Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow, 1994-1997
Young love! This adorable duo met in 1994 while on the set of Seven. Two years later, Pitt proposed to the actress, but ultimately called off their engagement in 1997. Back when the pair was head-over-heels for each other, Pitt told ET popping the question to Paltrow was "one of the greatest moments" of his life. "I guess I'm gonna be a dad with a lot of kids," he said at the time.
Angelina Jolie & Jonny Lee Miller, 1995-1999
After meeting and falling for her Hackers costar in 1995, her first real relationship since her early teens, Jolie and Miller eloped in Las Vegas in 1996. Unfortunately, things didn't work out and they ultimately called it quits. According to an interview Jolie did with Buzzfeed in May 2014, the two are still "great" friends. "I think of [Jonny] when I think of that [film]," she dished. "Although, I'm sure the movie looks so ancient now, but we had a lot of fun making that."
Brad Pitt and Robin Givens, 1986-1987
One of Pitt's earliest public relationships was with Mike Tyson's ex-wife, and his Head of Class co-star. The actress was criticized for divorcing the professional boxer, but joked that dating Pitt helped ease the pain. During an interview with Huffington Post Live in January 2013, Tyson explained that in the midst of his divorce from Givens, they were "still having sex" -- until he saw Pitt in the passenger's seat of her car one day.
Brad Pitt and Jill Schoelen, 1989
Cutting Class was not only the film that featured Pitt in his first starring role, it's also where he met his reported first fiancée. The pair dated for a short three months before he was rumored to ask the actress to marry him. Shortly after, Schoelen called it off when the two were in Budapest, Hungary. "I got there, went straight to the set where she was filming [The Phantom of the Opera] and that night we went out to dinner," Pitt recalled to The Sun in April 2011. "She told me that she had fallen in love with the director of the film. I was so shocked I said, 'I'm outta here.
Angelina Jolie & Jenny Shimizu, '90s and '00s
Jolie dated the actress on-and-off for several years in the '90s and early '00's, after meeting during a casting for Foxfire. "I fell in love with her the first second I saw her," Jolie explained in a 1997 interview with Girlfriends magazine. "We had a lot of fun. I probably would have married Jenny Shimizu if I hadn't married my [first] husband."
Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis, 1989-1993
After working together in Too Young to Die? and Kalifornia, the two decided to become more than just close co-stars. Their relationship lasted for about four years, but while chatting with the Huffington Post in Sept. 2014, Lewis said she's amazed that people still find their romance fascinating, all these years later. "Whenever I get asked Brad questions, I'm like, 'Do you want to talk about my seventh-grade crush?' Because that was my boyfriend too," she joked.
Angelina Jolie & Colin Farrell, 2004
While this romance was never confirmed by either party, the two were rumored to be hooking up before Jolie gave Pitt a shot at love. The actress was reportedly infatuated with Farrell on the set of their film, Alexander, but he apparently wasn't feeling a relationship with her and put a stop to their fling during a press tour for the movie.
Here comes North West!
The 3-year-old daughter of Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West stole the spotlight at a wedding on Friday, getting her groove on as she fulfilled her flower girl duties. In typical fashion, her mom took to Snapchat to document the fun night.
In one of the videos, little Nori, dressed in a white tulle gown with a big purple bow and a matching flower crown, can be seen chasing the "flower dogs."
Later in the night, she kept warm with a white fur stole as she danced to the reception band's cover of Daft Punk's "Get Lucky."
Get it, North!
Before arriving to the venue, Kim shared videos of her and Kanye en route, telling her fans it was all about the "wedding vibes today."
"Kanye and I are going to a wedding today, and North is the flower girl," she added.
The Selfish author wore a nude halter dress, which featured a plunging neckline. She completed her glam look with sleek, straight hair and three gold necklaces.
Her "bae" looked equally chic, donning a classy white dress shirt. "He does NOT like to be on my snap," Kim exclaimed, laughing. "Sometimes he does."
Earlier this month, all eyes were on North's brother, Saint, as the entire West family stepped out for a dinner outing in New York City.
Kanye's mini-me sported an adorable camouflage T-shirt and shorts combo, paired with stylish black-and-white kicks. See pics in the video below!
Is there anything Simone Biles can't do?
Fresh off her Pretty Little Liars set visit on Friday, the Olympic gold medalist is now starring in Jake Miller's new music video for his new single "Overnight." 
Miller, 23, took to social media on Friday to reveal the big news.
"#OVERNIGHT music video coming soon. Starring the beautiful @simonebiles! Directed by @edgaresteves," he wrote on Instagram, alongside a photo of himself and Biles, who plays his love interested.  
Biles, 19, also shared her excitement on Twitter.
"@Jakemiller can't wait till the #Overnight music video comes out!" she wrote, posting behind the scenes photos from the set. 
It's no secret that the gymnast is a fan of Miller's music. The rapper shared a video during the Rio Olympics of Biles and teammate Laurie Hernandez jamming to "Overnight" together.
"Shout out to 2 of the greatest of all time @Simone_Biles & @lzhernandez02 jammin to #OVERNIGHT" he captioned the tweet, obviously including plenty of Olympic emojis.
Earlier this month, Biles was a guest on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where she explained what it was like to meet Kim Kardashian, Zac Efron and Beyoncé. "I got my selfie [with Kim] that I wanted, and then I talked to her so I could send her daughter some [leotards], which are in the works," Biles gushed. "I already texted her this morning, so that's good, and I want to babysit her daughter."
For more on Biles' most memorable star-struck moments, watch the video below.
Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo are taking in all the joys of parenthood.
Just two days after welcoming their first child, Dusty Rose, the 27-year-old model shared the first official snap of their baby girl via Instagram.
In the sweet black-and-white pic, baby Dusty, deep in a snooze, adorably rests her head on Levine's tatted chest. "Words can't describe," Prinsloo captioned it, using a heart emoji.
The Maroon 5 frontman also shared the photo to his own account, simply writing, "Dusty Rose Levine 9/21/16."
Levine confirmed Prinsloo's pregnancy back in April, telling ET he couldn't be more excited about becoming a father.
"I'm ready to be a dad," he gushed. "You're born to be a parent, that's what we're here for, really. All the other s**t is great, but it's not what we're here for."
"When you are doing this for the first time, everybody loves to tell you what you should be doing," he added. "So, we're kind of tuning a lot of it out and we're just going to do it how we do it."
And it looks like they’re already doing a fine job!
Here is a list of actors who lend their voices to Storks: Andy Samberg, Kelsey Grammer, Jennifer Aniston, Ty Burrell, Keegan-Michael Key, Jordan Peele, playing storks and wolves and even some real-life people! But nearly every single scene is stolen by the nefarious pigeon in a "Trump wig," Pigeon Toady, voiced by a name you may not be familiar with yet: Stephen Kramer Glickman.
"When I got the role, my mom drove up to come meet me, and she brought me a present. She brought me a pigeon. An actual, live pigeon that she bought from a pigeon salesman on Craigslist," Glickman told ET by phone. "I go, 'Oh, that's very sweet of you, Mom. That's insane. You can keep the pigeon.' And she goes, 'At least take a picture with it!' We were in a parking garage and she pulls out the pigeon, hands it to me and it flew away. It flew away into the underground parking structure and then my mom, my little Jewish mother and I, chased this pigeon for four hours, while my mom is yelling at people, 'Help! Please help us catch this pigeon! My son's in a movie!'"
ET: How did you come up with Pigeon Toady's voice?
Stephen Kramer Glickman: It's a mix between my old roommate who was from Long Beach and Walter Cronkite. Whenever you have a character that's a bad guy, it's easy to go with the old-fashioned bad guy voice. The scary voice. But he's not a scary character. He's conniving and kind of a bad person -- or like, a bad bird. So, I thought mixing in a little bit of this Long Beach accent would be the most unintimidating voice that you can have. And then making that voice the bad guy is a reaaaally fun time.
Obviously that's not what your voice normally sounds like. [Note: Glickman naturally has a lovely, baritone speaking voice.] Did it ever hurt doing the voice? How long can you do the voice uninterrupted?
Oh, no! The voice is very easy. Literally, I used to make fun of my old roommate all the time and do his voice to him. I would actually sometimes take his phone and call his grandparents as him and tell them embarrassing things like, "Hey, me and this girl I just met decided we're going to get married. Hope you don't mind, grandma and grandpa!" And they'd be like, "Oh nooooo! [Cries] Oh no, noooo." I used to do that all the time. So, it's been kind of a voice I've been playing around with for a long time. I can do it for hours.
Did you have any say in Pigeon Toady's look or how it evolved over time?
I didn't have any say in his look, but the character did develop a lot with my involvement. Originally, he was in five scenes in the movie, and I think now he's in 25 scenes. So, the longer that I worked on it, the more that they would find little places to stick me in or they'd get inspired by some silly thing that I did. But what's great is Nick Stoller and Doug Sweetland are both big, genius directors, but Nick Stoller is a phenomenal, phenomenal comedy writer. So, anything that he would ask me to do or try to do was just a pleasure. And sometimes you would see the art come back and Pigeon Toady would be in a different wig, or he'd have different weird hair. And then they settled on this hair that people are referring to as like, Trump hair. And it just stuck.
That was two years ago when they made the decision that the hair was going to look like that. He had different color hair, like maybe a bowl cut. I don't think he ever had anything cool. I don't think there was any Mohawk Pigeon Toady. But I think this was just the funniest hair. And I'd love a sequel where we get to see other people in his family, like Pigeon Toady's parents and older brothers and stuff and they all have different haircuts. That would be hysterical.
Yeah! Pitch me your Pigeon Toady sequel. What's happening?
C'mon! A Pigeon Toady TV show? Every hour of the day, I'd watch that show. I think he'd just be trying to steal different jobs at different companies. You know what would be the greatest thing ever is do an Undercover Boss but with Pigeon Toady, just trying, [Pigeon Toady voice] "Aww, I'm just trying to fit in! I'm just a regular employee!" That stuff kills me. How do they not know it's the boss?! How do they not know who the guy is? [Laughs] He's wearing a mustache!
You're the clear the scene stealer of Storks. Can you reveal your secrets and give me the Stephen Kramer Glickman course on how to steal a scene?
That's very sweet of you to say that. I've been on the project for almost three years! It's crazy. I was actually a scratch vocalist on the movie, so I was like a rough draft voice in the beginning and they showed me a drawing of a pigeon whose eyes were kind of half open and they were like, "He's kind of a bad guy, but he's also a little bit of a weirdo and he's trying really hard to be the most powerful bird on Stork Mountain." Which is ridiculous, because he's a pigeon. And I was like, "Oh, I totally know who this is."
I feel like he's a very ridiculous character, and I think it's a lot of people having a really fun time together, trying to make this character the most ridiculous thing in the film. There was always a lot of laughing. I would walk by the editing room where they would be cutting this, and it's just a bunch of grown men laughing and trying to find the most ridiculous cut possible. They kept everything that we did, like 90 percent of the funny stuff that we recorded ended up in the project. And that's all Nick Stoller doing that! And also, I got to give credit where credit is due, I know Phil Lord and Christopher Miller both really championed me for this part and pushed with the studio to keep me in the part after they replaced the scratch actors on the movie with like, Kelsey Grammer and Key and Peele and all these other amazing, wonderful people. Having Lord and Miller and [producer] Brad Lewis and Nick Stoller and these guys fighting for you to keep your part is a huge, huge deal. And I think that's the reason why the character steals a lot of scenes, is because he had a lot of people fighting for it.
And now you're in a movie with Jennifer Aniston!
Yes, I am! From Big Time Rush to Storks, that's a pretty big leap!
Speaking of Lord and Miller, the Storks poster declares that it is "From the Studio That Delivered The Lego Movie." How would you pitch Storks to fans of The Lego Movie?
I think the reason that people loved The Lego Movie so much is because the comedy was fantastic -- it was really, really funny -- but also, it was heartwarming and there were some really great, warm-hearted moments in the film that people weren't expecting. I think it's the same thing with this film, where we're not trying to break your heart in this movie. We're trying to warm your heart and put it back together. When you watch it, you don't walk away from it crying, but you do walk away from the film feeling like, "Oh wow! There is good in the world!"
[This interview has been edited and condensed.]
Kids always give the sweetest presents.
Jennifer Lopez took to Instagram on Friday to share the adorable present she received from her 8-year-old son, Maximilian.
"Max: this is for Mama...do you like it? Me: OMG baby I LOOOVE it!! Thank you so much!! Max: Good...there's plenty more where that came from. Lol!" she wrote, alongside a photo of a multi-colored rose. 
Max is one of two children that Lopez has with ex-husband Marc Anthony. In June, 47-year-old singer talked to ET about crying every night at her Las Vegas residency during the portion of the concert when she honors her children.
"People are like, 'Is she crying!?' I'm like, 'Almost every night, thank you,'" Lopez admitted. "[But Max and Emme] love it. You know, they go, 'Why is my face up there!?' My son will be like, 'Why is my face there? People are laughing at us!' He gets worried about that stuff. My daughter [just] loves watching it."
Hear more on Lopez’s "family first" sentiments in the video below.
Miley Cyrus might just be the biggest Billy Idol fan out there.
The 23-year-old singer joined Idol on stage for a special performance of "Rebel Yell" at the iHeartRadio Music Festival on Friday, and while fans were surprised by her appearance, it's her ensemble we can't get enough of.
"Singing with me… Miley Cyrus! Let's hear it!" Idol announced to the crowd as he brought out Cyrus for their duet.
"Singing with Billy f**king Idol, let's do it!" she yelled back to a cheering audience.
Cyrus then debuted her full get-up, which included a Billy Idol leather jacket:
A Billy Idol vintage tee:
Billy Idol pants:
And Billy Idol sunglasses:
See their performance below:
While Cyrus is totally in her element onstage, she recently vowed never to do another red carpet.
"[A year ago] I had to do the [A Very Murray Christmas] premiere, and I will never do a red carpet again," she told Elle. "Why, when people are starving, am I on a carpet that's red? Because I'm 'important'? Because I’m 'famous'?"
"That’s not how I roll," Cyrus further explained. "It’s like a skit -- it's like Zoolander."
See more in the video below.
Three  months after her tragic death, Christina Grimmie  is still getting a little love.
The iHeartRadio Music Festival kicked off on Friday, but it couldn't get things started without a heartfelt tribute to Grimmie, who performed at the festival in 2015.
The organization took to Twitter to share the emotional tribute, which featured sweet moments such as Grimmie speaking to fans, her appearance on The Voice, and performing at the iHeartRadio Music Festival.
“One year ago, she captivated our audience at the #iHeartFestival. Tonight, we remember the incredible life and music of Christina Grimmie,” the organization tweeted alongside the video.
Grimmie was shot and killed after performing at an Orlando, Florida, concert in June. The 22-year-old singer competed on season six of The Voice as a member of Adam Levine's team, finishing third.
While the iHeartRadio Music Festival made a special tribute to Grimmie, the singer was not included in the In Memoriam segment that aired at the Emmys.
"As is the case each year with the Emmys, the In-Memoriam segment is constrained by time and space," a spokesperson for the Emmys explained in a statement to ET. 
"Every year, the telecast producer is unfortunately limited by the time available and cannot include every significant person who has passed in the telecast In Memoriam; therefore, we note everyone in the industry on our website In Memoriam and during a simultaneous In Memoriam crawl on our Backstage Live streaming program," the statement concluded.
See more in the video below.
If Sarah Michelle Gellar's life was a movie, we have a feeling we know who would play her.
The 39-year-old actress took to Instagram on Friday to share her version of the Three Characters challenge, in which she described herself in three fictional characters -- and they’re all played by Shannen Doherty.
"Hey @theshando I've taken describe yourself in#threecharacters one step further...here's me in three characters played by you lol #ShannenDoherty," she wrote alongside a collage of Doherty.
Gellar's first pic was Doherty's take on Jenny Wilder from Little House on the Prarie, while her other choices were from Doherty's better known roles in Heathers and Girls Just Want to Have Fun.
Doherty quickly responded to Gellar's epic declaration of love with one of her own.
"My #fbf is with@sarahmgellar cause she's always made me laugh like this. And.... Just to date this picture, we were heading to a Ricky Martin concert...... Which was fantastic btw," she captioned a throwback snap of the pair.
This isn't the first time the two have gushed about their friendship on social media. Just last month, Gellar posted a sweet tribute to the Beverly Hills, 90210 actress as she battles cancer. 
"I've always said she is one of the most loyal friends I've ever known, and now while she is facing the toughest journey of her life, she is sharing it with friends she has never met in the hopes of helping other people who are going through the same struggle," Gellar wrote on Instagram, calling Doherty her "muse." "That's a true friend #F**kCancer."
See more in the video below.
Joanne is almost here!
Lady Gaga took to Twitter on Friday to release the tracklist for the upcoming album, revealing  a special collaboration with Florence + The Machine's Florence Welch.
"LADY GAGA / #JOANNE / OCT 21 DELUXE & STANDARD TRACKLISTS + CD LABEL," the 30-year-old singer wrote alongside the big reveal.
Joanne's standard tracklist includes 11 songs, including Gaga's hit single "Perfect Illusion" and the duet with Welch, while the deluxe version features a total of 14.
Speaking of "Perfect Illusion," Gaga recently addressed speculation that the song was written about her ex-fiancé, Taylor Kinney.
"I love Taylor so, so much and this song is not a hit out against Taylor. He's my best friend," she told Andy Cohen last week. "This song is just about, I'm sure not only feelings that I’ve had but that he's had, that my friends have had, that my sister has in her relationship. It’s a record about all of us, you know? And I would never use my song or want to use the public to hurt anyone that I love so much."
See more in the video below.
Glee took a deep, emotional toll on Ryan Murphy.
The executive producer of the Fox musical series opens up about the experience in a new interview, where he reveals the last time he saw star Cory Monteith, who tragically died of a drug overdose in 2013.
Murphy says that Monteith and his girlfriend at the time, Lea Michele, came to visit him on the set of HBO's The Normal Heart, where the late actor thanked him for helping push him through his struggles.
"We hugged, and the last thing he said was, 'I love you, man, and thank you for helping me get better,'" Murphy recalls to Entertainment Weekly. "And then the next thing I knew he was dead. It was like losing a child."
The Glee co-creator acknowledges the profound affect the actor's death had on the show.
“What started off as being such a great celebration of love and acceptance ultimately became about darkness and death,” he explained.
PICS: Remembering Cory Monteith
At times, Murphy reveals, the drama on the Glee set boiled over as the cast became too close.
"There was a lot of infighting," he says. "There was a lot of people sleeping together and breaking up ... We all got too personal."
MORE: Lea Michele & 'Glee' Cast Remember Cory Monteith on 3rd Anniversary of His Death
Even after all that's happened since Glee was introduced to the world in 2009, Murphy admits that the experience was "the best time in my life and the worst time in my life."
David Beckham is doing push-ups for a good cause.
Over the last three days, Beckham has been participating in the 22 Million Pushups Challenge, which is aimed at veteran suicide prevention. Director Guy Richie, challenged the former pro soccer player to complete the viral video campaign, and Beckham gladly put his own spin on things.
On Thursday, Beckham completed his daily round of 22 push-ups on top of a piano inside his Las Vegas hotel room while wearing nothing but his underwear.
"It's for a great cause, a serious cause, for all the service men and woman that take their lives every single day," the father of four says after completing his push-ups (without knocking over a bottle of wine and two glasses sitting on the piano).
Beckham then pans the camera to show off his hotel room. "I'm 79 floors up, I’m lying on a piano and I thought I’d bring a pianist with me. I thought you’d find it romantic," he jokes.
Each day appears to be a special location for Beckham. He started off the "first lot" of push-ups from 44,000 feet in the air. In his most recent video, Beckham finishes the push-ups in his hotel room, only this time he's fully clothed.
"Day 3 of the#22pushupchallenge to raise awareness of the devastating effects of PTSD on the lives of servicemen, servicewoman & their families," he captioned the third Instagram video. "I won't be posting these everyday so as not to clutter your feed but trust that I will be doing them and you will see the evidence. This cause is too important to me."
MORE: Victoria Beckham Opens Up About the Moment She Fell for David Beckham: 'Love at First Sight Does Exist'
Prior to her big engagement news on Friday, Idina Menzel opened up to ET about letting go of "Letting Go" with her new album, idina.
"'Let It Go' was on the radio, and was being played by stations I never even imagined would pick up the song," Menzel told ET. "It actually has helped me. It's broadened my audience."
The Tony Award-winning entertainer had a whirlwind year in 2014 full of highs (Frozen became one of the biggest animated movies of all time) and lows (her divorce from Taye Diggs was finalized), all of which she captured on her fifth studio album.
"I just use the music to really try to explore that, and write down what I was going through," Menzel said.
Menzel is definitely back on an upswing with the announcement that she is engaged to fellow theater star Aaron Lohr!
"As if this week couldn't get any better, I have wonderful news," she tweeted. "My man and I are engaged! We are so happy. It's a beautiful time."
Next up for Menzel is Lifetime's remake of Beaches. Menzel is playing Bette Midler's role in the TV movie, which was a gig she almost didn't take.
"I don't particularly like to choose projects where I have to walk in an icon's footsteps," Menzel explained. "I found though -- after I said no a bunch of times, because I was terrified -- that there's a whole young audience that had never even heard of Beaches."
Menzel's new album, idina., is out now.
Simone Biles just had the most 'A'-mazing day ever!
On Friday, the Olympic gold-medalist visited the set of one of her favorite TV shows, Pretty Little Liars, and judging by the photos the cast and crew shared on Instagram, it looks like the 19-year-old gymnast fit right in.
"@lucyhale was not filming today but someone just as small and powerful took her place," Troian Bellisario captioned the pic, which was reposted by Janel Parrish. "ITS @simonebiles AND SHES 4-TIME OLYMPIC GOLD MEDALIST! AND A BRONZE TOO!!"
Biles also shared a snap, captioning it, "PRETTY LITTLE LIARS! Thank you guys for letting me see the set today!"
Bellisario's costar, Keegan Allen, was just as excited about their guest for the day, writing, "Hanging with @simonebiles today. Such an honor to meet and spend the afternoon showing her around our set!"
Apparently, he was the lucky cast member who got to "host" Biles and "run her around" the set for the day.
See more epic snaps from Biles' tour below:
Back in August, when Biles was crushing the competition at the Summer Olympics in Rio, PLL executive producer Marlene King invited the gold medalist and her Final Five teammates to the Los Angeles-based set.
"We're so proud of what you’re doing in Rio," King wrote in a Twitter message to Biles. "Come see us as soon as you get home and bring your friends!"
Next on Biles' bucket list? Babysitting Kim Kardashian West and Kanye West's 3-year-old daughter, North!
Earlier this month, Biles was a guest on The Ellen DeGeneres Show, where she adorably explained what it was like to meet the Selfish author, as well as Zac Efron and Beyoncé. "I got my selfie [with Kim] that I wanted, and then I talked to her so I could send her daughter some [leotards], which are in the works," Biles gushed. "I already texted her this morning, so that's good, and I want to babysit her daughter."
To hear more on Biles' most memorable star-struck moments, watch the video below!
Whoopi Goldberg may be getting ready to say goodbye to The View.
The longtime talk show host dropped by The Wendy Williams Show on Friday, where she revealed that she's "probably not" returning to the series after season 20.
"I know you've only signed on, according to what we've talked about, for one more year," Williams pressed to Goldberg's agreement. "So, in September, when everyone comes back for the new season, you might not be there."
"No, probably not," the Sister Act star replied.
"I have to do it, baby," Goldberg continued, "because I have to go and grow. I've got stuff to do. I've got movies I need to direct, I got books I gotta finish."
"This was great, and I love doing it, but you know, it's been a while," she added.
Watch below: 

Twenty years later, The View is clearly going strong, with Goldberg currently holding the title of the show's longest-running on-air talent.
See more in the video below.
No surprises here!
Fifty Shades of Grey star Jamie Dornan recently stopped by British talk show, The Jonathan Ross Show, recently, where he admitted that his wife, actress Amelia Warner, still hasn't seen his debut as Christian Grey in the 2015 film.
"She hasn't watched it," the 34-year-old actor admitted. "Why would she watch it?"
From the sound of things, the upcoming sequel, Fifty Shades Darker, probably won't be much tamer.
Asked whether the upcoming movie -- which is due in theaters on Valentine's Day -- will feature full-frontal nudity for Christian, Dornan replied, "I don't even know ... I don't know where the cameras were, I don't bother myself with that."
While he plays an S&M enthusiast onscreen, in real life Dornan is much more modest, evidenced by his response to Orlando Bloom's nude paddleboarding photos from earlier this year.
MORE: 9 Reasons Why We Like Jamie Dornan and His Wife's Love Story Better Than 'Fifty Shades'
"I don't know what that was, but that was something," Dornan said with a laugh. "You wouldn't see me doing that... I hate paddleboarding." Watch the interview below.
MORE: Jamie Dornan on Social Media, Letting His Wife on Set for 'Fifty Shades Darker'
Though Dornan has talked before about his wife's refusal to watch Fifty Shades, the actor did share that she had visited him on set a number of times.
"A couple of times on choice days," Dornan said to CBS News. "There were some days where it probably doesn't make a lot of sense for her to be hanging around."
Watch below for the first Fifty Shades Darker teaser.
While Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's children have been a focus of their divorce, it seems to be their oldest son, Maddox, is at the center of it all.
After news broke earlier this week that Jolie had filed for divorce from Pitt, reports surfaced that Pitt was being investigated for child abuse after Maddox allegedly inserted himself into a fight between his parents during a flight home from Europe last week. However, a source told ET it was "totally a child-parent disagreement," and any reports of inappropriate physical conduct are "exaggerated or untrue."

"Maddox was the first baby I ever held," Jolie told ET at the junket for Tomb Raider 2 in 2003. "He's really made me a woman and everything that is, you know, just the warmth and find that side of that very nurturing and open."
The actress continued to raise Maddox as a single parent until she and Pitt started dating in 2005. The pair first went public with their relationship in April of that year, while on vacation with Maddox in Kenya.
In a 2007 interview with Vogue, Jolie credited her children, "especially Maddox," with speeding up her relationship with the Ocean's Eleven actor. "There was a coming together of him and Brad," she told the magazine. "It's a big thing to bring together a child and a father. It had never crossed my mind that Mad was going to need a father -- certainly not that it would be this man I just met. Until, of course, I got to know Brad, and realized that he is naturally a wonderful father. And we left a lot of it up to Mad, and he took his time, and then made the decision one day."
"He just out of the blue called him Dad," she said. "It was amazing… That was probably the most defining moment, when he decided that we would all be a family."
By that time, the couple had already begun the adoption process on Maddox's little sister, Zahara, in Ethiopia, adopting the 6-month-old in July 2005. On Jan. 19, 2006, Maddox and Zahara's last names were changed to Jolie-Pitt, after the actor officially adopted them as his own. The couple announced they were expecting daughter Shiloh just eight days earlier.
Over the next few years, Maddox became a big brother four more times: to Shiloh in 2006, Pax in 2007, and twins Knox and Vivienne in 2008.
In December 2009, a now 8-year-old Maddox hit the red carpet, accompanying his parents to the Los Angeles premiere of Invictus.
The following year, Maddox was photographed getting in some quality father-son time with Pitt, as the two attended an NFL playoff game together.
Soon after, Maddox seemed to develop an interest in film, with the 11-year-old making a cameo appearance in his dad's 2013 film, World War Z, as a zombie.
"He gets shot in the head… multiple times. But he gets double tapped," Pitt joked to US Weekly at the time. "I don't know what that says about me as a parent."
"My boys think it's really cool," he told ET. "Finally a role they can see."
By 2014, 12-year-old Maddox appeared to have a bit more confidence on the red carpet, posing with his parents and siblings as he supported his mother's films, Maleficent and Unbroken.
The next year, it was back to movie sets for Maddox, who worked as a production assistant on his parent's film, By the Sea.
"We want to make it a family affair, and have the kids running in and out of set. And of course there's a few scenes where we had to make him work the parking lot," Pitt told ET at the movie's November premiere. "It's fun to see your boy grow up and take on responsibility. [It's] very nice."
After getting production experience on By the Sea, Maddox collaborated with his mother on another film, Cambodia, which is set to be released on Netflix later this year.
"Mad and I are now actually producing a film in Cambodia about his country and his history," Jolie gushed to ET in November. "We love working together."
In her divorce filing, Jolie has requested full physical custody of Maddox and his five siblings. However, a source told ET that Pitt wants to be with his kids. 
"I am very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well-being of our kids," he told People in a statement on Tuesday. "I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time." 
Regardless of their split, ET's source says that Pitt thinks Jolie is a "great mom," and "he only has positive things to say about her as a mother."
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source continued. "He has also made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her. He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."
Marion Cotillard's partner, Guillaume Canet, is breaking his silence.
The 42-year-old actor and director took to social media on Friday to speak out against rumors that Cotillard was involved in an affair with Brad Pitt.
"I don't usually make it a habit to comment on rumors made about us," Canet wrote in French on Instagram, alongside a picture of a "Danger" road sign.
"I also don't usually talk about my private life until now. I have always protected attentively ... But the fury of the tabloids, the venal stupidity of some people calling themselves journalists, the haters who feel braver behind a keyboard, drive me to speak of the pride, love, respect and admiration I have for Marion staying as strong and intelligent in the face all these stupid and unfounded accusations," he added.
"I think we're all living with much more important things at this moment and now it's time to move on and raise the bar a bit," Canet continued. "Even if there's so much work for some, I want to be positive. And as Marion said so well I hope you get better and aspire to something in your life than constantly sending sh*t!" 
On Wednesday, Cotillard, who stars opposite Pitt in the upcoming film Allied, also addressed the cheating rumors.
"This is going to be my first and only reaction to the whirlwind news that broke 24 hours ago and that I was swept into," Cotillard began her lengthy post. "I am not used to commenting on things like this nor taking them seriously but as this situation is spiraling and affecting people I love, I have to speak up."
"Firstly, many years ago, I met the man of my life, father of our son and of the baby we are expecting," she said of Canet and their 5-year-old son, Marcel.  "He is my love, my best friend, the only one that I need."
"Secondly, to those who have indicated that I am devastated, I am very well, thank you. This crafted conversation isn't distressing. And to all the media and the haters who are quick to pass judgement, I sincerely wish you a swift recovery," she continued.
"Finally, I do very much wish that Angelina and Brad, both who I deeply respect, will find peace in this very tumultuous moment," she concluded the essay, signing the post: "With all my love, Marion." 
EXCLUSIVE: Angelina Jolie & Brad Pitt Divorce a 'Long Time Coming' -- Here's What Went Wrong
The New York Post reported on Tuesday, shortly after news of Pitt and Angelina Jolie's divorce broke, that Jolie had filed for divorce after she hired a private eye and learned that Pitt was having an affair with Cotillard.
Sources told ET, however, that these reports were simply "not true."
See more on the split in the video below.
She's rolling solo!
Reese Witherspoon's look-alike daughter, Ava Phillippe, hit her first red carpet without her mom or dad, Ryan Phillippe. Ava, 17, attended a private Chanel-hosted dinner celebrating the fashion giant's °5 L'EAU  fragrance launch in West Hollywood on Thursday.
It may have been her first solo red carpet, but Ava looked more than ready to take on the flashing lights without her famous parents in tow. The teen looked adorable wearing an olive green tank top with a multi-colored tweed Chanel skirt, a sparkly bag and strappy black heels.
MORE: Reese Witherspoon and Daughter Ava Look Identical in New Vacation Snap
Inside, Ava mingled with Lily-Rose Depp, the 17-year-old daughter of Johnny Depp and Vanessa Paradis, and star of Chanel’s new fragrance campaign. Other celebs spotted at the fashion event included Pharrell Williams, Kristen Stewart, and Mila Jovovich.
Even though growing up in the spotlight  can be challenging for celebrity kids, Ava can always turn to her mom for guidance. In an interview with ET at Glamour’s Women of the Year Awards last November, Witherspoon explained why her daughter should feel lucky to be a woman.
"We are so lucky to be women in this country, that we have freedoms that other women in other countries do not have," said the Oscar-winning actress. "It's really important that my daughter understands and other people’s daughters understand that it’s important how we pick our political candidates to preserve those rights and push ourselves further in the world by making sure we have representation."
See more in the video below.
Congratulations to Tatyana Ali!
The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air star and her husband, Dr. Vaughn Rasberry, welcomed their first child, a baby boy, on Friday, Sept. 16, her rep confirms to People. 
EXCLUSIVE: 'Fresh Prince of Bel-Air' Star Tatyana Ali Is Engaged and Pregnant!
The actress geared up for her little one just weeks before giving birth.
"Nesting is a real phenomenon... If I keep my phone near me with headphones I can satisfy my compulsion to redesign every curtain in my house and handle business... I think...#bumplife #godstiming," she wrote in late August.
EXCLUSIVE: Tatyana Ali Glows As She Talks About Her Pregnancy In First Post-Engagement Appearance
"After the gym this morning I thought I'd relax in the study and paint my toenails. Ha!! Imagine my surprise when I realized I can't even see my toes.#bumplife," she posted just a few weeks earlier.
Ali and Rasberry exclusively revealed to ET in March that they were expecting -- and engaged!
The couple tied the knot on July 17 at the Four Seasons in Beverly Hills, California, in a gorgeous Caribbean-inspired wedding.
"Planning our wedding has been so exciting, but when we found out we were expecting, our perspective shifted completely," Ali told ET in March. "We want our ceremony to really celebrate our newest blessing!"
See more from the couple's nuptials in the video below.
Adrienne Bailon is a stress-free bride-to-be!
At a kickoff party for the 2016 NFL women's apparel collection on Thursday in Los Angeles, The Real co-host, who's engaged to singer-songwriter Israel Houghton, told ET that wedding planning has been surprisingly easy.
"Planning so far has been super smooth and peaceful," Bailon, 32, revealed, as her fiancé, who was sitting in on our interview, flashed a smile. "Everybody on set makes fun of me every day. They're like, 'Why are you so calm?' I'm like the calmest bride-to-be ever."
Houghton proposed to Bailon during the couple's trip to Paris, France, last month. As they were heading back to Los Angeles, the two took advantage of their long flight home, and began talking about the details of their nuptials.
"The whole flight home, we dreamed out loud what we would want," she exclaimed. "By the time I landed, my whole wedding was planned. Fourteen hours, that'll do it!"
Bailon also told ET that she's been taking a cue from one of her favorite celebrities for inspiration.
"I always, always [have] loved Audrey Hepburn – she'll always be iconic to me," she said. "I just really want to keep it classy and timeless."
Houghton, 45, said that they can't reveal venue details, but their special day will certainly be very "elegant" and "intimate."
Bailon is an ambassador for the new NFL women's apparel line, along with Scream Queens star Keke Palmer. While chatting with the former 3LW member about how to dress up some of the pieces and make them look sexy, she revealed she'd totally be down to model the cute gear in a sultry shoot – for her fiancé!
"Absolutely! I would be so down for a sexy photo shoot in the gear," she gushed. "I would love that."
Houghton quickly chimed in, saying, "We have no objections!"
We're not surprised by Bailon's answer – just take one look at her Instagram and you'll see she oozes killer confidence. So what's the secret?
"It comes from my mama," she revealed. "Ever since I was little, she always encouraged us to be proud of who we are, and that we're all unique and special in our own way."
"I always grew up with curvy women in my Latina family," she continued. "When I was younger, I had the opposite complex, I was super thin, and I was like, 'OMG, I can't wait till I get hips and fill out. I enjoy and embrace being a woman."
Later in the night, Bailon and Palmer took to the stage to perform karaoke to Monica and Brandy's hit '90s jam, "The Boy Is Mine." At one point in the song, Palmer completely went off track with the lyrics, rapping an epic freestyle in honor of Bailon's engagement.
See it all go down in the video below!
It's not how you fall, it's how you get back up!
Nonetheless, Alex Pall, one half of DJ duo The Chainsmokers, took a nasty spill at one of the band's concerts last weekend, which somehow is both hard to watch, and impossible not to.
"RIP ALEX," the band captioned a video of the tumble, along with a bunch of crying laughing emojis.
Ouch!
MORE: The Chainsmokers Blast MTV VMAs Over Failed Performance -- 'Nearly Every Other Person Lip-Synced'
The EDM team doesn't need to sweat it, though -- even the biggest stars take some unplanned stage dives!
Watch the video below to see Justin Bieber fall off stage in Canada while adjusting his pants.
Idina Menzel is getting married!
The Frozen star took to Twitter on Friday to announce her engagement to theater star Aaron Lohr, writing, "What an incredible week. Thank you to everyone for all your support with the album."
MORE: Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel Have 'Wicked' Reunion, Perform Duet for First Time in 12 Years
"As if this week couldn't get any better I have wonderful news," the 45-year-old performer added. "My man and I are engaged! We are so happy. It's a beautiful time."
MORE: Idina Menzel to Take on Bette Midler’s Role in TV Remake of Garry Marshall's 'Beaches'
Congratulations to the happy couple!
Menzel and Lohr began dating in April 2015, and appeared together in the 2005 production of Rent, which also happens to star Taye Diggs, who Menzel divorced in late 2014 after nearly 12 years of marriage.
Menzel and Diggs have one son together, 7-year-old Walker Nathaniel.
EXCLUSIVE: Idina Menzel Reacts to 'Frozen' Petition to Give Elsa a Girlfriend: 'I Think It's Great'
Jim Carrey isn't holding back.
The 54-year-old actor issued a statement to ET on Friday regarding the latest allegations made by the estranged husband of his late girlfriend, Cathriona White.
"Is this the way a 'husband' honors the memory of his 'wife?'" Carrey said in response to Mark Burton's amended lawsuit complaint filed this week, which alleges that Carrey "knowingly gave White STDs, lied about the fact he’d given her the diseases and then 'dumped' her after she confronted him."
"The real disease here is greed, shameful greed!" Carrey added.
On Thursday, Carrey's lawyer, Martin Singer, issued a statement addressing the new allegations.
"The claim that Mr. Carrey gave Cathriona White an STD is categorically disputed," the statement read. "This is a desperate, bogus claim made by the 'husband' of the sham marriage. My client will not pay money to end this opportunist’s transparent shakedown lawsuit, and this malicious case will be dismissed."
"Mr. Carrey has suffered a great deal in the last year with the suicide of the woman he dearly loved, and it is outrageous that he should be subjected to this predatory lawsuit," Singer's statement concluded.
EXCLUSIVE: Jim Carrey Slams Coroner's Office for Information Released in Cathriona White's Autopsy Report: 'What a Shame'
The amended complaint is part of a wrongful death lawsuit, in which Burton alleges that Carrey obtained drugs illegally under the false name of "Arthur King" and provided them to White, who was found dead in her home at age 30 on Sept. 28, 2015, following a drug overdose.
A toxicology report found four prescription drugs in her system: a mix of painkillers, beta blockers and a sleep aid. Her death was officially ruled a suicide by the Los Angeles County Coroner's office in July of this year.
Carrey spoke out on the wrongful death lawsuit earlier in the week, saying, "I will not tolerate this heartless attempt to exploit me or the woman I loved. Cat's troubles were born long before I met her and sadly her tragic end was beyond anyone's control. I really hope that someday soon people will stop trying to profit from this and let her rest in peace."
"You're in for a treat, man."
The security guard working the gate at the Disney lot pops his gum as he glances at me over his Oakley shades. I'd become accustomed to a certain interaction during these check-ins -- usually composed solely of giving my name and my intentions on the lot ("I'm here for the Queen of Katwe screening.") -- so this divergence threw me. "Huh?" I ask. He hands over my pass, smiling, "You're going to like the movie."
Queen of Katwe is the true story of Phiona Mutesi, a Ugandan chess prodigy who overcame all odds to become a chess master, adapted from the ESPN biography, The Queen of Katwe: A Story of Life, Chess, and One Extraordinary Girl's Dream of Becoming a Grandmaster. If your eyes are currently glazing over at the mention of chess and grandmasters, let me just say: never have I ever seen a montage of people playing chess as heartwarming as in this film.
It's the type of movie that spells out the moral for you: "In chess, the small one can become the big one. That's why I like it," one Katwe girl explains to Phiona (newcomer Madina Nalwanga) after explaining how a pawn can become a queen. Spoiler alert: That's a metaphor for Phiona herself. It's the type of film that says, "Challenges are not a curse," and truly believes it. It's also a vibrant movie filled with panache, a story that will move you with its soaring highs and myriad heartbreaks and, despite all odds, never feels rote.
REVIEW: Chris Pratt Was Born to Play a Cowboy, But 'The Magnificent Seven' Is More Guns Than Glory
Queen of Katwe is not groundbreaking. It fits fairly squarely into two tried-and-true subgenres: The sports biopic, documenting the underdog's rise to become a champ, and the vaguer Netflix category of narratives about disadvantaged black teenagers who meet that one teacher who helps them see a life for themselves outside of their current predicament. (Your Freedom Writers, your Dangerous Minds.) As directed by Mira Nair (Monsoon Wedding), it manages to be more than that, though. It is a movie about women of color, directed by a woman of color. It's a movie about Africa, shot entirely in Africa with a cast comprised of African actors, including Nalwanga, Lupita Nyong'o and David Oyelowo, playing the aforementioned teacher. (No white savior in this narrative!) It's another feel-good family film to add to Disney's pantheon, albeit one that provides some much needed diversity without being about slaves or maids.
Another injustice righted by Queen of Katwe is providing an in-the-flesh role for Nyong'o, her first since winning the Best Supporting Actress Oscar in 2014 for 12 Years a Slave. In the interim, she's played Maz Kanata in Star Wars: The Force Awakens and Raksha in The Jungle Book -- huge blockbusters, to be sure, but both were motion capture performances that showcased her voice at the expense of everything else she has to offer. For comparison's sake, Anne Hathaway, who won the same award the year prior for Les Misérables, appeared in Interstellar, The Intern and Alice Through the Looking Glass before Nyong'o was actually seen onscreen again.
And Nyong'o, playing Phiona's mother, Nakku Harriet, is dynamic as ever onscreen. In one early scene, she haggles for day-old produce and bemoans the vendor, "You should give me them for free." To which the caddish man replies, "I will when you give me something for free." Nyong'o's Nakku spits on the ground in front of him. "There. No charge." Her performance is subtle in its complexities. She crafts a character that is filled with pride and shame, love and regret, both bitter and tender. It is a role that will hopefully return her to the Best Supporting Actress race. (Oyelowo is also plenty charming in the movie and could earn Academy attention for it.) Even so, Nyongo's presence is just one highlight in an altogether bright film.
And if you're so inclined to see Queen of Katwe this weekend, I say to you: You're in for a treat, man.
Backstreet's back... again!
Nick Carter, Howie Dorough, Brian Littrell, AJ McLean and Kevin Richardson are officially headed to Planet Hollywood's The Axis Theater in Las Vegas for a residency, kicking off in March and June of 2017.
"We’re going to call the show Larger Than Life, and we’re taking that theme and we’re going to run with it,"  Richardson said in a statement issued Friday.
PIC: Nick Carter's Son Gets a First Listen to New BSB Album
"If you’ve ever been to a Backstreet Boys show," Littrell added, "it’s going to be that on steroids."
Tickets for Larger Than Life go on sale beginning Oct. 1, with the first shows slated for March and June 2017. You can see a complete list of dates here.
"We’re excited to bring our experience from being a touring act with all of our hits to Vegas, so that it becomes something that you’ll never forget," Carter also said in the statement.
The hitmakers are in good company! The Axis Theater currently plays host to Britney Spears' hit Piece of Me show. In fact, Richardson recently told ET that all of BSB had the chance to take in one of Spears' performances at the venue and chat with their longtime colleague about the experience.
"It seemed really convenient for the family!" he said in April. "A Vegas residency, now that we're all fathers, could be very convenient for us… We won't have to travel so much."
For more from the group -- including details on their next album -- watch the interview below.
Jonathan Lipnicki is all grown up and giving back to his neighborhood.
The 25-year-old former child star -- best known for playing Renee Zellweger's scene-stealing son in Jerry Maguire -- has traded in the adorable glasses for a brown belt in Brazilian Jiu Jitsu, and recently taught a class of kids at a martial arts studio in the Westlake Village neighborhood of Los Angeles where he grew up.
"I love to share my knowledge with kids, and when they asked me to do this, I thought it was a really great opportunity to do something for the neighborhood I grew up in," Lipnicki told the Ventura County Star.
When not in the dojo, Lipnicki is still a working actor, and stars alongside Jamie-Lynn Sigler and How to Get Away With Murder's Matt McGorry in the upcoming film, Loserville, which is getting a limited release in NYC and L.A. on Sept. 30 and will premiere on Video On-Demand on Oct. 4.
And the actor still keeps up with his movie dad, Tom Cruise.
"If I have a question, he’s been very open if I need advice," Lipnicki told DailyMail in a recent interview. "He’s always said if you have any questions the door’s always open and he’s always been really responsive and helpful."
"I always will look up to him," he added. "He’s always gonna be a role model because nobody I have ever met or worked with has had quite that energy where they are just... that laser focus is fascinating."
MORE: 'Matilda' Star Mara Wilson Embraces Her 'Bi/Queer' Identity After Orlando Shooting
Nonetheless, Lipnicki is still eager to continue his acting pursuits... and maybe shake his child star image.
Watch the video below for the actor's message to fans of his old character.
Jennifer Aniston returned to New York City looking ready for a change of season.
Wearing a broad-brimmed hat, comfy jeans, a printed T-shirt, tennis shoes and a black jacket, the 47-year-old actress gave a slight smile as photographers snapped photos of her out and about on the first day of fall.
Aniston's husband, Justin Theroux, 45, will soon start promoting his new film, The Girl on the Train, in NYC, which might be why she's back in the big city.
This is the first time Aniston has been seen out in public since news broke on Tuesday that her ex-husband Brad Pitt would be divorcing Angelina Jolie after two years of marriage. Pitt met Jolie on set of 2005's Mr. & Mrs. Smith, when he was still married to Aniston.
While the Friends star has yet to speak on the matter, her good friend, Chelsea Handler, was quite candid about how she felt about the celebrity split. "Brad and Angelina always said they wouldn't get married until everyone could get married," Handler said on Thursday's episode of her Netflix show, Chelsea. "And I always said I wouldn't get married until they got divorced. So I'm officially accepting proposals! I'm ready!"
Check it out:
Ariana Grande is pretty much the chillest date ever.
The 23-year-old pop star reveals her ideal date night in a new interview with ET, and her answer might surprise you.
"Chill, I don't know," she told ET's Nischelle Turner on Friday while promoting her new fragrance, Sweet Like Candy. "Like, random adventures. Going on drives, looking for Pokemon, going to cute movies, making music."
Well, you know what they say about couples that play Pokemon Go together!
Grande hasn't been shy about showing off her adorable PDA with boyfriend Mac Miller on Instagram. The pair reconnected after working together on her latest single, "My Favorite Part," after first teaming up for her breakthrough single, "The Way," back in 2013.
LISTEN: Ariana Grande's A Cappella Version of 'Into You' Will Blow You Away
In the spirit of their new song, ET asked Grande to share her "favorite part" about being in love.
"Every day is super exciting," she gushed. "Just waking up and being like, hell yeah! Do you know what I mean? It's great."
Though Grande has been notably tight-lipped about her latest romance in recent interviews, the singer told us that she understands the public's fascination with her love life -- and reveals that she's finally come to grips with it.
"I can't really go anywhere [or] do anything now without people seeing and knowing," she said. "So, it's like, I just need to be OK and just be like, 'Hey, that's OK.' If that's what comes with me doing what I love and people hearing my music and responding, then that's OK."
Grande's new scent may be sweet and seductive, but her advice for girls who want to be seductively flirtatious is decidedly simple. "Do you," she advised. "Do whatever you want, whatever feels natural. Be yourself!"
While she's busy shilling perfume and gearing up for her Dangerous Woman tour, kicking off Feb. 2 with tickets on sale Saturday, she's also rehearsing for NBC's Dec. 7 telecast of Hairspray Live!
"It's a lot, but I'm very grateful to be doing what I love and also getting to do these special things," she said. "Doing Hairspray is my sole dream come true. Like, I'm so fulfilled. I'm so excited."
"I think it's a really strong message that we need right now," she added. "It's such a crazy time to be doing that show. ... With everything that's going on in the world -- the intolerance, the ignorance, the hate and ridiculousness -- it's just so crazy how this takes place in the '60s and, like, we're still working on all that. It's playful, but also very necessary."
Brad Pitt only wants the best for Angelina Jolie.
Following the shocking news that the 41-year-old actress filed for divorce from Pitt after two years of marriage, a source familiar with the situation told ET on Friday that the Allied star is frustrated by the "smear campaign" being lodged against him.
According to ET's source, Pitt thinks Jolie is a "great mom," and "he only has positive things to say about her as a mother," and he refuses to disparage her.
"He will only say positive things about [the] mother [of his children]," the source added. "He has also made it clear to friends to not say anything negative about her. He continues to hope that there is an amicable resolution in the interest of the kids."
Pitt found out his wife wanted a divorce one or two days prior to her filing the dissolution of marriage, according to the source, adding that he was hoping to work things through, and was willing to "figure it out together" in order to resolve their differences.
"They are a pretty normal family that has family issues from time to time," the source said. "It’s sad that people are exaggerating things that hurt everyone."
"People have verbal arguments -- that’s what happens when you have a family," our source continued, emphasizing, "both are really good parents and both really care about the kids."
In the divorce filing, Jolie has asked for full custody of their six kids – Maddox, 15, Shiloh, 10, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, and twins Vivienne and Knox, 8. The same source tells ET, however, that Pitt wants to be with his kids and have some custody.
It seems the split was prompted, at least in part, by an alleged incident that happened on a family flight home from Europe last Wednesday. Despite reports that the altercation was between Pitt and Jolie, our source confirms it was a "normal" tiff between the 52-year-old actor and Maddox.
"There was no inappropriate physical contact. Nothing inappropriate happened," the source explained, also telling ET that this was “totally a child-parent disagreement" and any reports of inappropriate physical conduct are "exaggerated or untrue."
Sources tell ET that there are images being shopped around of Pitt on the tarmac at the Falls International Airport in Minnesota, where their jet stopped to refuel. Pitt can allegedly be seen in the video "looking drunk" and "yelling." ET has reached out to confirm the authenticity of this video.
Airport manager Thor Einarson tells us that the U.S. Privacy Act prohibits airport staff from disclosing any information about people using the airport.
"The Falls International Airport values the privacy of our customers," Einarson told ET in a statement. "So our only comment on the event that allegedly occurred recently is to say that in the last 10 days, there have been no incidents, accidents or out-of-the-ordinary events."
On Tuesday, another source told ET "Brad has traditional parenting skills."
"He thinks the kids need structure [like] bed times, consistent schooling," the source revealed. "Angelina's parenting style is much more freeform. She's not into setting boundaries."
To hear more, watch the video below.
Kristen Stewart debuted a new look on the first day of fall.
The 26-year-old actress stepped out on Thursday night for the Chanel Dinner Celebrating N 5 L'Eau event in Hollywood, California, rocking a noticeably blonder hair color. Stewart -- who has modeled for Chanel -- paired her lighter, wet hairstyle with black high-waisted trousers and a crop top.
Hair color isn't the only change we've seen in Stewart. In a recent interview with Elle UK, the Twilight star was surprisingly candid about being head over heels for her girlfriend and former personal assistant, Alicia Cargile.
"I think also right now I'm just really in love with my girlfriend," Stewart said bluntly. "We've broken up a couple of times and gotten back together, and this time I was like, 'Finally, I can feel again.'"
EXCLUSIVE: Kristen Stewart Recalls First Love -- 'It's the Most Intense, Overwhelming Feeling'
Amanda Seyfried's BFLF (best four-legged friend) has got some celebrating to do!
The Fathers & Daughters star threw her beloved dog, Finley, a birthday party on Thursday, complete with a cake and balloons, and Seyfried shared the adorable moment on Instagram, writing, "Happy 7th, best friend @finnsite."
MORE: Amanda Seyfried Is Engaged to ‘Last Word’ Co-Star Thomas Sadoski
That's almost too cute for words!
Seyfried is a devout animal lover, so much so that Finley's even got an Instagram page, where the two often pose for super sweet photos together.
Happy birthday, Finley!
EXCLUSIVE: Russell Crowe, Amanda Seyfried and Aaron Paul Get Emotional in New Film 'Fathers and Daughters'
Pharrell Williams is going to be a dad again!
The 43-year-old musician is expecting his second child with wife Helen Lasichanh, ET has confirmed. The couple stepped out on Thursday for a Chanel-hosted dinner in Los Angeles celebrating N°5 L'Eau With Lily-Rose Depp, with Helen showing off her growing baby bump in a flowing striped dress.
The duo are already parents to son Rocket, who will ring in his eighth birthday in November. Earlier this year, Pharrell opened up about what words of wisdom he hopes to pass on to his children.
"Humility and loyalty, I feel like those two things are the ultimate currency," he told ET. "So I just try to push my son to be humble. He's really talented, he's really smart and bright, but I want him to be humble with the things that he does so all those other things will shine on their own. He gets that."
As coincidence would have it, Pharrell and Helen revealed their pregnancy publicly on the same day that his The Voice co-star, Adam Levine, welcomed his first child. Adam's wife, Behati Prinsloo, gave birth to a baby girl named Dusty Rose Levine on Thursday.
Get all the details about the newest member of The Voice family in the player below.
Rob Kardashian is so ready to be a father.
The 29-year-old reality star posted to Instagram on Thursday night what appears to be the same sonogram from earlier this summer, along with a very sweet message. "Can't wait for You," he wrote.
Meanwhile, in a promo clip for Sunday's episode of Rob and Chyna, we see that Blac Chyna's family is just as drama-filled as the Kardashians.
Chyna sits down for dinner with Rob, her father and stepsiblings, but things get pretty awkward when her mother, Tokyo Toni, shows up. "I'm really hoping that my mom is really nice at the dinner, 'cause she's known for, like, not giving two f**ks," the 28-year-old model voices her concerns. "I just hope she can keep her composure at the dinner."
Once seated, Tokyo completely ignores Chyna's father until she finds out that her daughter is the same age as her step sisters. "We're like triplets, special kind though," one of Chyna's siblings explains as Tokyo's mouth drops.
"So, it's true, huh. You're a rolling stone, Papa," Tokyo says to Chyna's dad. "That was an old life," he responds.
It takes all of five seconds onscreen to realize Chris Pratt was born to play a cowboy.
We meet Pratt's Old West alter ego, Josh Faraday, fairly early on in The Magnificent Seven. Naturally, he's at a saloon. Also naturally, he's up to no good. He's dirty and sweaty in that Western way that's still sexy on someone with Pratt's natural pulchritude. Soon enough, a slick bounty hunter, Chisolm (Denzel Washington, leaving no piece of scenery unchewed), meanders in and shoots the barkeep point-blank in the face. Pratt's Faraday cracks wise, "Dan, you dead? Pity, I just ordered a drink from him."
He's a cowpoke who loves his whiskey and his women, his horse and his guns. ("I didn't want to kill him. He shouldn't have touched my guns," Faraday quips after, well, killing a man who touched his guns.) If someone asked you to come up with the perfect role for Chris Pratt, you would tell that person to stop wasting your time. It's been done. This is it.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Magnificent Seven' Star Chris Pratt on How He's Put His Cowboy Wardrobe to Good Use at Home
The Magnificent Seven -- this latest take, which is a remake of the 1960 Western of the same name, which itself was a remake of Akira Kurosawa's 1954 classic, Seven Samurai -- is set in 1879, when evil tycoon Bartholomew Bogue (Peter Sarsgaard, doing a less manic take on Leonardo DiCaprio in Django Unchained, he's only missing a mustache to twirl) threatens to take over a town called Rose Creek, before lighting the church on fire and massacring a few townspeople. Chisolm is recruited to protect the town and he subsequently recruits his own ragtag band of six to help him fight. Outmanned, outgunned, outnumbered...will they prevail? (And is that the Survivor catchphrase?)
Unflattering as the comparison may be, there are more than a few similarities between The Magnificent Seven and this summer's much-maligned Suicide Squad. Both movies center on a group of troublemakers teaming up to do some good. Both feature performances that are insane. (If they had gone method for this, it would have been a total nightmare.) (Ethan Hawke hisses during a gunfight.) Both movies aim for diversity but end up muddled somewhere in the middle. The formerly all-white "Seven" now includes a Mexican outlaw, a South Korean assassin and a Native American named Red Harvest, but we can probably just stop including period-appropriate racism in popcorn action flicks, right?
Which is worse than it sounds: Magnificent Seven is a well constructed, more than infrequently fun ride. Ultimately, how you feel about it will depend on your tolerance for guns these days, because as directed by Antoine Fuqua (Training Day), that's essentially what this is: two-plus hours of "boys will be boys," punctuated by guns shooting and guns twirling and guns blazing. Gunsgunsguns. It's certainly a violent movie, albeit not particularly bloody one.
Here's a telling takeaway: despite the human body count, which is...uncountable and the dozens upon dozens of bullets whizzing through the air at any given second, not one single horse is ever in put in danger, let alone shot. At this point, would that be harder to watch than a person getting killed? 2016! When you don't need to watch a Western, because you're living one!
Katy Perry has found her Prince Charming!
The 31-year-old pop star stepped out with boyfriend Orlando Bloom, 39, for a fun-filled day at Shanghai's Disneyland Park. Perry even took to Instagram to show off the couple's matching Mickey and Minnie socks.
"When you find your prince," she sweetly captioned the photo, adding two heart emojis.
Perry appeared to keep her glam minimal and opted for a baseball hat on the outing, posing for photos with a few lucky fans -- including Goofy, who found himself on the receiving end of a lipsticked smooch from the "Rise" singer!
Bloom has yet to post any evidence of the couple's Disney visit on his own Instagram account, but he did recently share a behind-the-scenes video while filming a fight scene for a project he's working on in China.
The actor only recently opened his Instagram to the public and just last week revealed that he had gone "back to blond" for his latest role. See what else he's been up to in the video below!
Lisa Marie D’Amato had an interesting birthing plan.
On Thursday, the America’s Next Top Model alum gave birth to her second child, son Venice Sire, and posted the delivery on her friend's Facebook Live. The graphic video takes place inside a hospital room, and D'Amato's husband, Adam Friedman, is by her side as she goes into labor.
"That was like three pushes," the 35-year-old former model proclaims after hearing her baby cry about 14 minutes into the video.
EXCLUSIVE: American Idol Alum Brooke White Welcomes Baby No. 2
Those watching seemed to support the Facebook Live delivery.
"Yes, thank you for sharing this moment. Absolutely beautiful!" one viewer of the post wrote.
"I'm crying and throwing up at the same time," another viewer quipped.
D'Amato already has 3-year-old son, Daxel Vaughn, and has been married to Friedman since 2012.
D'Amato isn't the only former reality star to give birth this month. The Bachelorette alum Emily Maynard also gave birth to her third child last week. See the first photo of the family's new bundle of joy:
Kesha gets by with a little help from her fans.
The 29-year-old pop star thanked her audience for their support on Thursday night during the Brooklyn stop on her Kesha and The Creepies "F**k the World Tour," bringing up her ongoing lawsuit with producer Dr. Luke.
"I honestly don't know if I would have made it the past few years without you guys, some of you may know I'm in a lawsuit," she said. "Thank you for standing by me."
Kesha's legal drama stems back to October 2014, when the singer accused her longtime mentor of drugging and raping her, as well as abusing her over the course of 10 years. Dr. Luke has vehemently denied all wrongdoing and filed a countersuit that accused Kesha and her mother, Pebe Sebert, of attempting to "extort" him into releasing her from her record contract.
In February 2016, a New York Supreme Court Judge denied Kesha's request to be let out of her contract with Sony Music. Months later, Kesha dropped her sexual assault case against Dr. Luke in California to focus on creating new music. However, she continues to "fight for my rights" in her New York suit against him.
Earlier this month, Dr. Luke filed a second defamation lawsuit against Kesha's mother.
"I could not do this without you so f---ing thank you. I can't share my new music with you. Keep praying, someday it will come. I can't wait for that," Kesha told concertgoers on Thursday. "No one can own you. Because to truly own you means to own your happiness. No one can own your f---ing happiness."
For good measure, Kesha added: "Ain't nobody got time for hate. Always have hope in your heart. I do!"
At one point in the night, Kesha became visibly emotional by her fans' cheers of support. "You made me cry," she said, choking up. "Thank you for standing with me through all of this."
Though she can't share her new music quite yet, Kesha has been teasing her progress on Instagram. The "Tik Tok" singer sent her followers into a frenzy last week when she hinted at a high profile collaboration. Get the story in the player below.
Kylie Jenner is really good at gifts.
The reality star spared no expense when it came to her best friend Jordyn Woods' 19th birthday. At dinner, Kylie presented her pal with what appears to be the Cartier Rainbow Love bracelet that's estimated to cost $14,600. Needless to say, she loved it.
The lavish gift still doesn't top the present she gave Jordyn for her 18th birthday: a new car!
The besties were dressed to the nines for their Thursday night out on the town. Kylie wore a curve-hugging latex dress with sheer sleeves, while the birthday girl donned a loose-fitted, cleavage-baring mini-dress.
Jordyn -- who gifted Kylie with a puppy on her 19th birthday in August -- also had not one but three cakes during the course of her birthday festivities, which Tyga and Kendall Jenner also attended.
In July, Jordyn spoke exclusively with ET and gushed about Kylie and their squad. "You know, together her and I -- and all of our friends -- we just always build each other up no matter who it is," she said. "Whoever I'm around, I just want to see them do their best. So whenever we're all together, we just always motivate each other, and just tell each other how beautiful they are every day."
MORE: Kylie Jenner's Pal Jordyn Woods Speaks Out About Her Famous Friend -- I Try to Make Her as Normal as Possible
She added, "I think just growing up in L.A., it's very hard to meet genuine people, and especially at [Kylie's] level, it's just impossible to meet friends and go out and live a normal life. So just all of us, we just really have to watch our backs."
Atta girl! Yolanda Hadid took to Instagram on Thursday to praise her daughter, Gigi Hadid.
“Bravo Gigi for defending yourself and standing up for what is rightfully yours, your mind, body and soul should not be touched by anyone unless you want to… #GirlPower #Boundaries #Defense #BoxingSkills @gothamgym,” she captioned a photo of the supermodel being lifted into the air by a man on the street.
TMZ since identified him as notorious red carpet prankster Vitalii Sediuk.
Shortly after the attack, Gigi took to Twitter to slam those who dissed her for hitting the “fan.”
“Fan?!!! The ACTUAL fans that were there can tell you what happened. I’m a HUMAN BEING – and had EVERY RIGHT to defend myself,” she wrote. “How dare that idiot thinks he has the right to man-handle a complete stranger. He ran quick tho.”
After strutting her stuff at New York Fashion Week, Gigi traveled to Italy for Milan Fashion Week. She walked in the MaxMara show, rocked an entirely sheer dress for Fendi, and dressed like a paper doll for Moschino.
MORE: Yolanda Hadid Grieves as Her Close Friend Loses Her Battle to ALS: See Her Sweet Tribute
Next up, Gigi is going to be introducing her Tommy Hilfiger collaboration to Europe.
“Next stop on the #TOGETHERTOUR: MILANO !!!!! @gigihadid will be at the Tommy Hilfiger Flagship store, Piazza Oberdan 2A Milano at 6 pm TOMORROW!” the store’s official account captioned a video of Gigi tossing a captain’s hat at the camera in a nautical jacket. “Can’t wait to share the #TOMMYXGIGI collection and see how everyone styles it!”
To photos of Gigi's attack, watch the clip below!
Ellen DeGeneres had a clever way of getting Gwen Stefani to talk about the next step in her relationship with Blake Shelton.
On Friday's episode of her daytime talk show, DeGeneres jokes with the 46-year-old "Holla Back" singer, "Before I make plans, because I make plans way ahead of time, tell me when you're getting married."
"You're crazy," Stefani responds. "OK, I'll let you know."
Stefani also chats about what it was like having her three sons on tour with her over the summer, revealing that her middle child, Zuma, especially loved the experience. "He had his flashlight, headphones, and he walked me on and off the stage every single night," she recalls. "For two hours, he worked back there. He was so into it."
Shelton's buddy on The Voice, Adam Levine, just had a baby with wife Behati Prinsloo, and Stefani says he's been in constant contact with her since he welcomed his first child. "Adam just had a baby so he's been Facetiming me all day," she shares, adding that his daughter is "so cute."
Stefani also opened up to ET about going on tour for the first time in seven years, and gushed that it was like "being in a dream." Check out our interview with the rocker:
No Michelle? How rude! Candace Cameron Bure took to Instagram on Thursday to celebrate the 29th anniversary of the show that started her career – Full House.
“29 years ago today, Full House premiered on ABC. September 22, 1987. Full(er) circle. #HappyBirthdayFullHouse,” Bure captioned the pic she stole from real-life bestie Andrea Barber (Kimmy Gibbler).
MORE: John Stamos Shares Ultimate Flashback Photo as 'Fuller House' Reveals Season 2 Premiere Date
Co-star John Stamos also paid tribute to the special anniversary, sharing a photo of himself and Bob Saget on set and in bed together.
“29 years of #FullHouse. 29 years with this guy. 29 more please. @bobsaget @fullerhouse,” he captioned the photo.
Of course, Saget reposted the pic, writing, “I wish for the same thing my dear dear friend.”
The cast of the Netflix revival, Fuller House, recently announced the show’s Season 2 premiere date as December 9. In the promotional photo, some of the stars are sitting outside in front of the iconic San Francisco homes.
For more on Season 2 of Fuller House, watch the video below!
Summer may be over, but that hasn’t stopped Sofia Vergara and Joe Manganiello from going on a tropical getaway. The A-list couple recently traveled to NYC for a short trip before catching a flight to Turks and Caicos.
“Breakfast in NY lunch in Turks & Caicos,” the Modern Family star captioned a sweet picture with her man in the picturesque location, sipping on a giant coconut.
MORE: Sofia Vergara Has Date Night With Joe Manganiello in NYC, Talks on Helium: Watch!
She also shared an aerial shot of the stunning ocean, simply captioning it with a series of palm tree emojis.
On Thursday, Vergara went for a boat tour with Manganiello and two pals, posing for a pretty pic at the back of the boat, wearing a black sweater and jeans.
The couple is enjoying some downtime while Vergara is taking a break from filming the new season of her hit ABC comedy. Her hubby has also been busy filming Justice League. But that doesn’t mean he hasn’t taken the time for his true love – the Pittsburgh Steelers.
MORE: Sofia Vergara Throws Her Son a Mexican Fiesta Birthday Party: See the Cute Pics!
“He’s not a fan. He’s, like, obsessed. He’s like a sick person. I think it’s one of the most important things in his life,” Vergara told Jimmy Fallon on The Tonight Show earlier this week. “It’s like he’s brainwashed me. I have no choice… Even when he’s alone to watch the games, he’s in his whole outfit. He thinks wearing those outfits are like wearing Tom Ford or Gucci.”
For more of Vergara’s recent antics, watch the video below!
Gabrielle Union wants to use her platform to educate and inspire. The Birth of a Nation star has already been vocal about her director and co-star Nate Parker’s rape allegations, but she recently told XoNecole that she has no plans to boycott the buzzed-about film.
“Some people have said, ‘If you’re a feminist, you should boycott the film.’ And I was like, ‘But wait, my role in the film and the reason I signed on was to talk about sexual violence,’” she explained. “So it feels a** backwards to shirk that responsibility when the controversy swirling around our film is around sexual violence so who better to speak on it than me? And if I take myself out of the conversation because it’s uncomfortable and because I’m worried about my brand, then my brand ain’t s**t if I don’t stand up for what I’ve always stood up for since I became a rape survivor.”
Though Union, 43, admitted she didn’t get the chance to spend much time with her white co-stars, like Armie Hammer, Penelope Ann Miller, Jackie Earle Haley, on set, she did say that they are “definitely aware of what white privilege is.”
“Now how aware they are of their own privilege, I don’t know because that comes with consistent behavior modification,” she added. “We will see on their next film if they’re still talking about the necessity of addressing oppression and racial inequality.”
Union thinks that the only way to see progress both with sexual assault and racial inequality in America is to open up conversations.
MORE: Nate Parker Apologizes for 'Insensitive' Response to Rape Case Controversy: ‘I Was Thinking About Myself’
“I’ve already talked to Lena Dunham,” she noted of the Girls creator who recently publicly apologized to Odell Beckham Jr. after she made jokes about how he did not want to sleep with her at the Met Ball. “I would love to talk to Kate Upton and Amy Schumer. Maybe I can help to explain the oppressive systems that have benefited and allowed them to say these careless, insensitive and offensive things. Those conversations are awkward as f**k and they get heated. Similar to watching people have conversations about consent.”
MORE: Lena Dunham Apologizes to Odell Beckham Jr., Clarifies Her 'Narcissistic' Comments After Twitter Backlash
Schumer posted a controversial tweet earlier this month that has since been deleted. When a social researcher named Paulo dos Santo tweeted, “Lena Dunham, Amy Schumer, et. al refuse to see that misogyny among men of color, while hideously prevalent, is no more so than among white men,” she replied, “How would you know? Statistically who is hollering at you in the street more pa?”
Supermodel Upton tweeted about NFL players who chose to take a knee during the “National Anthem” on September 11, calling their act of protest “unacceptable,” and saying they should “be proud to be an American.”
Reunited and it feels so good! Though the Kardashian-Jenner clan have been spread across the globe recently, all five sisters took the time to reunite on Thursday. Naturally, they snapped plenty of photos to share the moment with their many fans.
Kim Kardashian took the time to hand out some brand new Yeezy merchandise that her eager siblings were only too happy to accept.
“Khloe was nice to me today,” Kim said on Snapchat, showing off some labeled shoe boxes. “Let’s see who else is going to be nice.”
The mother to two also posed with Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, each rocking a blue “DILF” hat from Kanye West’s new collection.
While Kim was busy sorting through her designer gifts, Khloe and Kourtney took a sweet pic with their younger sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner. Khlo Money captioned the shot, “Sistas from different mistas.”
She also posed solo with the family’s other blonde, Kylie, giving her a kiss on the cheek, with the caption, “My baby girl.”
Khloe didn’t mind poking fun at herself when she shared a selfie with Kendall, writing, “Why is my head so much bigger? Lol anyways… My Kenny.”
Big head or not, Khloe was clearly excited to be reunited with Kendall, picking her up and twirling her around in a video that the supermodel posted to her own Instagram.
The family has been all over the globe with Kim following Kanye on tour in New York and Miami, Kourtney traveling to Italy with mom Kris Jenner, Khloe going to Mexico with her new beau Tristan Thompson, and Kendall working the runway at New York Fashion Week.
For more on the family’s fabulous outings, watch the video below!
Father and son reunion! When Stranger Things’ Steve Harrington (Joe Kerry) and Parks and Recreation’s Jean-Ralphio Saperstein (Ben Schwartz) finally came face to face, things got a little, well, strange. The pair met for the first time when ET’s Nischelle Turner interviewed them them on The Late Late Show with James Corden.
With all the speculation swirling that Steve might actually be Jean-Ralphio’s dad, the two actors decided to face the rumors head-on.
“To be honest, I don’t understand why we’re doing this,” Ben told Nischelle.
“Listen, there’s just some fan theories that are out there, and we just want to explore them,” Nischelle explained.
But it quickly became apparent that Ben and Joe had a lot in common when they finally met. Not only were they wearing identical handmade outfits, but they shook hands in the same unique way, got settled by crossing and re-crossing their legs, and had the same impromptu freestyle dance moves.
The pair were slightly unsettled to learn that their shows take place in nearby towns in Indiana. When asked what the weirdest thing they’ve ever done is, the duo replied in unison, “Hit the monster from the Upside Down with a bat then chilled on the couch.”
Suddenly convinced that they were, in fact, father and son, the actors exited the interview early to “catch up on some lost time.”
Watch the hilarious clip to see them bond! For more from the pair’s encounter, watch the video below.
Seth Meyers hung out with Miley Cyrus on Thursday's Late Night, and things got awkward really quick when the talk show host decide to go all out to impress the pop star in a new installment of "Forced Friendships."
Starting off strong, Meyers opted for a septum piercing to prove how hip and with it he is. Unfortunately, the Voice coach was less-than-impressed by the ostentatious body modification.
After Meyers painfully ripped the nose ring right out, he gave Cyrus a tour of 30 Rockefeller Center, which is home to the studios where many of NBC's biggest shows are shot.
While awkwardly showing her around his set as he threw out "youthful" slang, Meyers tried to impress the singer by pointing at his Late Show desk and telling her that he once had sex on it.
"Uh! Eww," Cyrus blurted out.
"What if I told you it was a three-way?" Meyers asked quickly.
"I wouldn't believe you," Cyrus shot back as she walked away.
Turning to watch her leave, Meyers whispered sadly to himself, "What if I told you it was a one way?"
Things only got worse when Meyers took Cyrus to the NBC Studio Store. After suggesting that they steal some clothes to be cool, Meyers was approached by a clearly-30-year-old man dressed like a teenager from a high school PSA from the early '90s, who praised the host for being "the best at Snapchat filters."
Needless to say, Cyrus remained unimpressed. No matter how hard Meyers tried, he just couldn't get the hang of being youthful --  a realization he came to after eating loose marijuana leaves and freaking out under a table.
"I was just trying to be cool and connect with you," Meyers said, freaking out. "But I'm not cool! I'm so lame. My idea of rebelling is going a day without shampoo!"
While Meyers might not be the hippest kid on the block anymore, he is happily married and recently welcomed his first son – an experience he recounted in a heartfelt monologue he shared just days after becoming a new dad. Hear about the Late Show host's hilarious pregnancy adventure in the video below.
Jim Carrey’s lawyer, Martin Singer, issued a statement to ET on Thursday in response to further allegations made by the estranged husband of Carrey’s deceased ex, Cathriona White.
“The claim that Mr. Carrey gave Cathriona White an STD is categorically disputed,” Singer said in response to Mark Burton’s amended complaint, which alleges that Carrey “knowingly gave White STDs, lied about the fact he’d given her the diseases and then ‘dumped’ her after she confronted him.”
“This is a desperate, bogus claim made by the ‘husband’ of the sham marriage,” Singer continued. “My client will not pay money to end this opportunist’s transparent shakedown lawsuit, and this malicious case will be dismissed.”
The amended complaint is part of a wrongful death lawsuit, in which Burton alleges that Carrey obtained drugs illegally under the false name of “Arthur King” and provided them to his ex.
White was found dead in her home at age 30 on Sept. 28, 2015, following a drug overdose. A toxicology report found four prescription drugs in her system: a mix of painkillers, beta blockers and a sleep aid. Her death was officially ruled a suicide by the Los Angeles County Coroner’s office in July of this year.
“Mr. Carrey has suffered a great deal in the last year with the suicide of the woman he dearly loved, and it is outrageous that he should be subjected to this predatory lawsuit,” Singer’s statement concluded.
Carrey spoke out on the wrongful death lawsuit earlier in the week, saying, “I will not tolerate this heartless attempt to exploit me or the woman I loved. Cat’s troubles were born long before I met her and sadly her tragic end was beyond anyone’s control. I really hope that someday soon people will stop trying to profit from this and let her rest in peace.”
The FBI is "continuing to gather facts" about the reported child abuse allegations against Brad Pitt.
The Los Angeles office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation released a statement to ET on Thursday, saying, "In response to [ET's] inquiry regarding allegations within the special aircraft jurisdiction of the United States; specifically, an aircraft carrying Mr. Brad Pitt and his children, the FBI is continuing to gather facts and will evaluate whether an investigation at the federal level will be pursued."
According to People, on a flight from France to the U.S. Wednesday, Pitt was allegedly being physically and verbally abusive with one of the six children he shares with Angelina Jolie and an anonymous caller reported an alleged altercation to the L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services. The publication later cited a source saying that Pitt "did not hit" his child during a verbal altercation with Jolie that turned into a "parent-child argument which was not handled in the right way and escalated more than it should have."
The L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services told ET that they are "never allowed to comment" on matters that involve minors. "We have very strict confidentiality laws and the laws do not allow us to confirm or deny the subjects of our investigations," Children and Family Services said in a statement.
The LAPD told ET earlier today they are "not handling any reports or allegations into child abuse for Mr. Brad Pitt.”
ET has reached out to Pitt and Jolie's reps.
Jolie, 41, filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday. Her attorney, Robert Offer, released a statement on Tuesday, saying her decision "was made for the health of the family." Meanwhile, Pitt said he was "saddened" by the split in his own statement to People, and asked the press to respect the privacy of their children.
Jolie is requesting physical custody of the children -- 15-year-old Maddox, 12-year-old Pax, 11-year-old Zahara, 10-year-old Shiloh, and 8-year-old twins Knox and Vivienne -- and is asking for shared legal custody.
Bella Hadid and her sister, Gigi, may be ruling the runways, but they're making the real fashion statements on the street.
While in Italy for Milan Fashion Week on Thursday, the 19-year-old model rocked one of the tiniest black tube tops we've ever seen. From the distressed Canadian tuxedo to the thick denim choker she paired with it, this look screamed '90s, right down to showing off her rock hard abs.
The ensemble is right in line with Bella's signature style, as she's a big fan of belly-baring crop tops, sheer shirts, or, well, nothing covering her chest at all.
She and Gigi were both crazy busy on Thursday, walking in shows for Max Mara, Alberta Ferretti, Moschino, and Fendi, with Bella opening the latter.
In fact, the tube top made an appearance in an Instagram video Bella took with Gigi backstage at Moschino.
MORE: Bella Hadid Stuns in Plunging Gown at GQ Men of the Year Awards
The ladies looked quite retro at the show. Both wore wigs and bold throwback dresses and, well, a couple other interesting looks to look like paper dolls. Beach bod dress, anyone?
Even the Hadids' fellow models are fully aware of how hard the sisters work. Coco Rocha praised them in a sweet tweet, writing, "I've been doing this modeling thing for a minute and I want to say, for the record, @GiGiHadid & @BellaHadid are the REAL DEAL. #supermodels."
The ladies quickly voiced their appreciation. "@cocorocha thank you so much for your warmth and support always COCO! Means a lot," Gigi wrote, adding three heart emojis, while Bella responded, "@cocorocha @GiGiHadid coco!!!! Thank you! Means so much coming from u."
Bella was wearing that ab-tastic outfit when Gigi got accosted by a fan who was supposedly "pranking" her by lifting her up in the air out of nowhere. Find out more about the creepy incident -- and how the 21-year-model defended herself -- in the video below.
Dwayne Johnson is deep in the lush forests of Hawaii shooting the hotly anticipated Jumanji sequel, and the star took to Instagram on Thursday to share a video from the jungle showing just how deep into character he's really getting.
"I believe I am discovering new land, new territories, you can see this is as real as it gets," Johnson, who was decked out in the adventurer garb of his character, Dr. Bravestone, said while waving toward a small river behind him.
"I have had no water, no food. I've been catching fish with my bare hands, which I do not even recognize. They have three heads," the 44-year-old action hero shared. "I have had zero contact with the outside world."
As he regaled fans with his tales of wilderness living, the camera man shooting the Instagram video panned over to a huge film crew stationed by the bank of the river (complete with comfy seats and craft services).
"Hey, hey, yes. Let's just keep that on me. You didn't see that," Johnson said, pulling the camera's focus back to him, "Like I said, I am discovering new land. Welcome to Jumanji!... You ruined the shot. Son of a b****! You ruined the shot."
On Tuesday, Johnson shared a first look from the Jumanji sequel with a set pic, showing himself and co-stars Jack Black, Kevin Hart and Karen Gillan rocking their epic exploration outfits.
"Our dope 90's vintage costumes will all make sense when our plot's revealed. Truuuuuust me," Johnson teased in the caption.
One Jumanji star not seen in the pic is Nick Jonas. The actor spoke with ET on Tuesday at the Los Angeles premiere of upcoming college drama, Goat, where he opened up a little about his character in the adventure flick.
Jonas couldn't share much, but he did give a little tease, explaining that he plays "an important character that helps the rest of the team kind of go about their journey in this game." Check out the video below to hear more.
Warning: Do not proceed if you haven’t watched Thursday’s season 13 premiere of Grey’s Anatomy!
Oh boy.

Reacting with emotion and not his brain, Alex beat DeLuca to a bloody pulp, causing the surgical intern to be rushed to the ER at Grey-Sloan Memorial. It’s awful news for Alex, who brings Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo) into his mess as he tries to cover his tracks. When Meredith asks Alex why he beat DeLuca up, he admits, “I just went crazy.” You think?!
Meredith finds out the truth about what really happened between Jo and DeLuca -- that DeLuca was simply helping her get into bed to sleep, nothing more -- and she reveals it all to Alex, who wants to run as a result. (Good luck with that!) It’s in that moment Alex admits he’s reverted to his old, destructive ways and even tries to smooth things over with DeLuca, who’s so badly injured his career as a surgeon is effectively over. Spoiler alert: It doesn’t go very well.

It’s not going to get better for Alex, either, whose career as a doctor is (obviously) in jeopardy. DeLuca decides to press charges (duh), and next week’s episode shows the two battling in the courtroom. Alex’s arrest threatens to split the hospital into opposing sides, and in the premiere, there were already hints of that -- Meredith on Team Karev and Ben Warren on Team DeLuca, for instance.
Here is a rundown of where all your favorite Grey’s couples and love triangles are at the end of the premiere:

Jo and Alex. There is absolutely no resolution with Jo and Alex’s rocky romance, thanks to his arrest, and it’s pretty clear they have a lot of dirty laundry to air out when that time comes. Plus, it doesn’t help that Jo being secretly married is still that, a secret, one she made sure DeLuca was going to keep under wraps. Naughty, naughty girl.
April and Jackson. They’re not back together (yet), but their newborn’s name is revealed: Harriet Kepner-Avery. Adorable!
Miranda and Ben. The two are still happily married -- someone’s got to be on Grey’s! -- and their desires to separate church and state continues.
Get ready guys, it’s about to get rocky!

Warning: Spoilers ahead from Thursday’s series premiere of Pitch. Do not proceed if you do not watch. We don’t want to ruin the surprise!
Welcome to the big leagues, Ginny Baker.

But it was the heartbreaking family reveal at the end of the episode that put Ginny’s entire journey into perspective.
Throughout the episode, Ginny’s present-day struggles with the San Diego Padres is framed by flashbacks to her childhood, where we see her father, Bill Baker (Michael Beach), pushing her to her limits physically, mentally and emotionally.
Though we see Bill in the present day (in the stands at Ginny’s disastrous MLB debut, for instance), he doesn’t interact with others. Why?

The devastating surprise comes after a teenage Ginny pitches her team to a state championship win, catching the eye of a Padres scout. Things are looking up for Ginny’s future, but her father, always with the tough love, says, “We ain’t done nothin’ yet.”
A young Ginny celebrates her hopeful future as her dad drives them home following the game. Suddenly, an oncoming car crashes head-on into their truck, her father suffering fatal injuries as a result.

“It has a lot of heart,” Bunbury recently told ET. “You feel good and I think right now, with everything that is going on in the world, we need television and film like that -- things that inspire and empower, and Pitch definitely inspires and definitely empowers.”
What did you think of the series premiere of Pitch? Tell us your thoughts on Twitter by tweeting @etnow!
Pitch airs Thursdays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on Fox.
Bombshell allegations have been reported against Brad Pitt following his split from wife Angelina Jolie — and though you might expect an A-list actor to already have a team of representatives in place, as of Thursday Pitt continued to be without a personal publicist or attorney.
ET can confirm that prior to Jolie filing for divorce on Monday, the power couple did not have personal public relations representatives, which is extremely rare for Hollywood stars of their stature. Instead, they have been relying solely on agents and managers to handle announcements about their children or marriage, for example. But a source tells ET that a New York-based strategic communications firm has now been asked to advise Pitt.
Meanwhile, Pitt is also bulking up his legal team, enlisting Beverly Hills attorney Lance Spiegel as one his lawyers, ET can confirm. Spiegel has previously represented many celebs in family law issues, including Eva Longoria in her divorce from Tony Parker.
On Tuesday, the actor addressed the split in statement, saying, "I'm very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well-being of our kids. I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time."
Jolie’s entertainment lawyer, Robert Offer, also released a statement on Tuesday to say her decision to file for divorce "was made for the health of the family.”
On Thursday, reports surfaced claiming the A-list actor was physically and verbally abusive to one of his six children while traveling on a flight from France to the U.S. on Sept. 14. In her divorce filing, Jolie lists the couple's date of separation as Sept. 15.
According to People, an anonymous tip was made to the L.A. County Department of Child and Family Services after the alleged altercation within their family last week. The DCFS told ET, “We have very strict confidentiality laws and the laws do not allow us to confirm or deny the subjects of our investigations."
The LAPD released a statement to ET on Thursday that they are "not handling any reports or allegations into child abuse for Mr. Brad Pitt."
Ain’t no shame in Ariel Winter's game!
The 18-year-old actress took to Instagram on Thursday to share racy snap from a recent "secret shoot" -- bare butt and all!
"BUTT really, don't miss a spot@kipzachary : @davinaadjani#secretshoot #embraceyourcurves," she captioned the black-and-white shot of her makeup artist giving her booty a little touch up.
This isn't the first time Winter has paraded her butt on Instagram. In fact, ET caught up with the Modern Family star just last month, where she defended her racy posts.
"Everybody is so hyped up on the fact that I post photos where my butt's out. It's a butt. Everyone has a butt," she explained. "I don't think it's crazy."
"It's like, 'Let me live! I'm enjoying my life, you're enjoying your life, you should be posting your butt if you like it, too!'" she added. "I'm not going to fight with someone on my Instagram that tells me they don't like my outfit or I should put my butt away. I'm sorry you think I should put my butt away, but just unfollow me."
See more in the video below.
You're nobody 'til somebody shouts you out in a Jay Z song.
During a sit-down on Jimmy Kimmel Live!, Lupita Nyong'o revealed the highest point of her career so far, and it isn't her Oscar win.
"[Jay Z] shouted me out and I felt like the coolest kid ever," Nyong'o admitted.
The GRAMMY winner name-dropped Nyong'o on his verse for the "We Made It" freestyle released in 2014. The 33-year-old actress revealed how she discovered the lyric.
"I was actually taking some repose in Massachusetts when my brother started sending me all these voice notes, screaming and saying, 'Jay Z! Jay Z! Yo!'" she recalled. "He sent me the link and I heard it. 'I'm on my Lupita Nyong'o' and I was like 'What?!' Yeah, that is the height."
The two later met at an Oscars after-party last year, where Nyong'o gave him her stamp of approval in person.
"As he approached he was like, 'Did I do good? I did good, right?'" Nyong'o said. "I was like, 'You did so good!'"
Possibly the second highest point of Nyong'o's career could have been meeting Jay Z's wife, Beyonce, in 2014 when Queen Bey approached her at the Met Ball.
"It was her and Solange and she said, 'Me and my sister were just geeking out. Hi, I'm Beyonce,'" Nyong'o recalled. "What kind of world is this where Beyonce is coming to introduce herself to me? Oh my goodness, it was amazing."
Nyong'o can next be seen on the big screen in Queen of Katwe, opening Sept. 30. The story follows a Ugandan girl who sees her world rapidly change after being introduced to the game of chess.
Jessica Biel and Beverley Mitchell are reliving their glory days.
The actresses, who starred together on 7th Heaven, took one hilarious look back at the styles they sported on the WB show for Throwback Thursday.
"Dear @beverleymitchell: Your hair looks so much better than mine. Why did you let me go out like that?! #TBT," Biel first shared on Instagram, along with the adorable pic.
Mitchell was quick to reply back with a throwback snap of her own.
"Dear @jessicabiel why didn't you tell me I look liked a clown? Not my best look!" she wrote alongside a behind-the-scenes shot.  "That hair, that top, that skirt? I cut out the boots because it just was too much!"
There's a reason the pair's styles look so out of date -- 7th Heaven first premiered 20 years ago!
ET caught up with both Biel and Mitchell on set of the family drama in 1996, where they gushed about landing their roles.
"Coming to work is so cool, because everyone is so cool and nice," Biel shared at the time.
"I'm an only child, so it's kind of like they're my brothers and sisters," Mitchell echoed.
See more in the video below.
Is the old Paris Hilton back?
The 35-year-old socialite returned to her runway days, walking in Philipp Plein's show during Milan Fashion Week on Wednesday.
Hilton hit the catwalk in a black strapless, cut-out gown that featured an intricate bodychain, which was paired with thigh-high gladiator sandals and metallic aviators.
Apparently the former reality star's life is so bright, she has to wear shades indoors. Not only that, but she was a clear fan of the rock star ensemble, captioning an Instagram collage on Thursday, "Last night was so much fun! Loved walking in@PhilippPleinInternational's runway show. His new collection is sick!!🔥💯 Those gladiator boots are everything! 😍."
Hilton's outfit wasn't even the craziest in Plein's Spring/Summer '17 collection, however -- her fellow models, including Karolina Kurkova, also rocked some bold black numbers.
The show was a straight-up party and the place to be in Milan. Not only did Hilton get back to her modeling roots, Fergie and Fat Joe performed.
Plein titled his show Alice in Ghetttoland, and the stage truly was a wonderland of fantasy. Pink and blue lighting lined the platform, which was decorated with toy houses, white picket fences, carnival rides, ice cream trucks, and a giant gnome wearing a T-shirt that said "pimp."
MORE: Paris and Nicky Hilton Look Adorable in First Big Post-Baby Outing at NYFW
Seriously, this stage was ah-may-zing.
Fergie walked the runway herself, then posed for photos onstage with Plein and after the show with Hilton.
REWIND: Paris Hilton Shows Major Cleavage at Milan's Men's Fashion Week
It's been 10 years since Hilton walked at a fashion week show. Though she's modeled her own line and appeared at smaller fashion events, her last major runway was the Heatherette Spring 2007 show in September 2006, which her sister, Nicky Hilton Rothschild, was also in.
It’s been a very busy month for the jet-setting blonde. She celebrated New York Fashion Week with her younger sister and partied at Burning Man. Find out more about her festival fun in the video below.
Kendall Jenner doesn't mind showing what's under her shirt! The 20-year-old supermodel, who has been spotted braless lately, explained why she loves "freeing the nipple" in a post on her app on Wednesday.
"Lately, it's like I'm either braless or I have my bra out, lol," Jenner wrote. "I'm all about freeing the nipple and I just think it's cool to show off what's under your shirt — whether that's a cute bralette or just skin."
For more proof that's she's commitment to nipple freedom, Jenner tweeted out a video montage of some of her latest braless looks.
MORE: Kendall Jenner's Model Squad Calls Themselves the 'Super Natural Friend Group'
The skin-showing trend has also been a running theme for many of her recent cover shoots. Jenner gave a peek at her nude bra in Allure magazine's October issue, and flashed her nipples in a sheer white tank for German Vogue, while American Vogue's September issue featured Jenner topless in a gold and black Gucci ensemble.
Life is pretty unpredictable.
Nonetheless, you probably expect that you'll never see an iconic actor try to pants the leader of the free world, but that's where we find ourselves today.
Mel Brooks was awarded the 2015 National Medal of Arts by President Barack Obama at the White House on Thursday, when the legendary filmmaker decided to pull a little prank...
While accepting the award, Brooks goes down as though he's trying to pull the president's pants down. And it appears that Brooks got a jump on Obama, who took an extra second to react, meaning the 90-year-old star probably could have achieved the feat had he truly wanted to!
After realizing what's going on, Obama seemed to laugh the whole thing off, leaving us all to go about our lives, which are now slightly enriched by the fact that this moment really happened.
You go, Mel Brooks!
Meanwhile, Hillary Clinton got involved in some political jokery of her own on Thursday, and it was also great.
Watch the video below to see what happened when the Democratic nominee decided to appear on Between Two Ferns with Zach Galifianakis.
During their time in the Big Brother house this past season, houseguests Paulie Calafiore and Zakiyah Everette struck up a showmance that Calafiore says has a chance to continue even now that the season has come to a close.
"I know I definitely have plans to see Zakiyah and I definitely wanna take it step by step," the 27-year-old DJ told ET's Brice Sander on Wednesday. "I think that's what everyone is looking to do."
Calafiore and Everette weren't the only ones to find romance during the course of their 99-day stay in the house. Houseguests James Huling and Natalie Negrotti hit it off pretty strong, as did Corey Brooks and season 18 winner Nicole Franzel.
According to Calafiore, a real-life love connection is possible for any of the on-screen partners, explaining, "I think everyone has an equal chance because everyone went into it with a good mindset."
Calafiore also "set the record straight" regarding recent rumors that he was actually engaged to another woman before he ever went into the house.
"I was not engaged. I did propose to a woman before I went into the house, [but] she said no," he shared. "[It was] definitely something that was on my mind a lot of the game but I couldn't let it distract me."
"If she said no before the game, she's definitely gonna still say no outside of the game," Calafiore said of his ex. "I got enough respect for Zakiyah to give her what I need to give her in terms of dating her."
After Wednesday's season 18 finale, ET also caught up with Big Brother host Julie Chen who opened up about Franzel's big victory over Paul Abrahamian, and how it was refreshing for the final two competitors to be so evenly matched.
"That was a dream come true, as a Big Brother fanatic, to have two gamers in it where it truly is a tough decision who deserves it more," Chen said. "And that speaks volumes about Paul… He stayed true to his word that he took the person that deserved it more even if it was gonna cost him the game."
Franzel ended up winning the $500,000 grand prize by an incredibly close vote of 5-4, becoming the first woman to ever win Big Brother when facing off against a man in the final two.
"She deserved it," Chen shared. "They were both deserving to be in that final two [but] ultimately she handled the questions from the jury better than Paul, so it shows you final statements count and how you handle those hard, tough questions also counts."
For more on the super-close season finale, check out the video below.
Big Brother: Over The Top, the new digital edition of Big Brother, begins streaming live on Wednesday, September 28, on the network’s SVOD and live-streaming service, CBS All Access.
Blake Griffin is a dad again!
The Los Angeles Clippers forward has welcomed his second baby and first daughter with longtime girlfriend, Brynn Cameron.
The couple named the baby girl Finley Elaine Griffin, the NBA star's rep confirmed to ET on Thursday.
Finley joins 3-year-old brother Ford Wilson Cameron-Griffin, who just had a birthday last month. While this marks the second child for the couple, Finley is Cameron's third child. She has a 9-year-old son, Cole, with former NFL quarterback, Matt Leinart.
The NBA All-Star dished on how much parenthood has changed him in a recent interview with GQ.
"This is what everybody says, and I didn't really get it," Griffin said. "People were like, 'Oh, it's so life-changing. It makes you think about things in a different way,' and you're always like, 'Oh yeah, totally.' But then, when it happens, you're like, 'Woah. All of those people were right!'"
Hollywood just finished celebrating television's best and brightest at the Emmys, and now they’re gearing up to celebrate style.
The second annual InStyle Awards will be held on Oct. 24 at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, honoring Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, and Priyanka Chopra.
Kidman will be honored with the Style Icon Award, while Woodley will receive the Advocate Award, and Chopra will claim Breakthrough Style Star.
Other honorees include Tom Ford, for designing, Leslie Fremar for styling, Sir John for makeup, and Danilo for hairstyling.
"InStyle represents the confluence of fashion and the red carpet. At the InStyle Awards, we recognize the impact these two worlds have on each other," Laura Brown, Editor-in-Chief of InStyle, said in a statement. "Inspired by our annual 'Hollywood's 50 Best Dressed' list, the awards spotlight the power of fashion and celebrity, as well as that of stylists. I'm thrilled to be joining InStyle at such an exciting time, and to host our signature event."
Kidman is clearly deserving of her Style Icon title -- check out her latest show-stopping look in the video below
Kristen Bell’s mother had quite the solution to her joining an all-boys baseball team as a child.
The 36-year-old actress made an appearance on The Late Late Show with James Corden on Wednesday night, where she revisited her wonder years.
"I was pretty scrappy," Bell told Corden of joining the team. "My mother made sure that I would not take any flak from anybody, because she gave me a real disastrous sort of haircut."
"What she did to make sure I fit in with the boys, was she took the bangs past the forehead, past the ear, all the way down to the back, which I believe we now call a mullet," she said as Corden showed the audience the adorable evidence.
"I was one of the first," she joked. "So I never had any problems, because everyone thought I was one of the little boys."
Watch the video below.
In addition to haircuts, it seems Bell's parents also had a knack for Halloween costumes.
"Puberty is a challenge. Be  nice out there, yall," The Good Place star captioned a hilarious throwback Thursday snap.
These days, it's Bell's own daughters, 3-year-old Lincoln and 1-year-old Delta, who have an input on her looks.
"I got ready at a room around the corner actually, my kids like to pick sequins off of things and this would have been very dangerous," she told ET of the Zuhair Murad gown she wore to the Emmys.
See more in the video below.
Sarah Paulson had a very, very good weekend!
The 41-year-old actress won Outstanding Lead Actress in a Limited Series or Movie at Sunday's Emmy Awards for her role as real-life prosecutor Marcia Clark in The People v. O.J. Simpson. She used her speech to thank Clark, who Paulson brought to the awards show, and declare her love for girlfriend Holland Taylor.
After the show, Paulson brought Clark with her to the 2016 Governors Ball in Los Angeles, where she gleefully waited for her Emmy Award to be engraved while sipping on a World Class cocktail.
Plenty of stars started partying before the Emmys were even over! Felicity Huffman and William H. Macy enjoyed drinks by Austin Cocktails while visiting the Backstage Creations Giving Suite, which benefitted the Television Academy Foundation.
Emily Ratajkowski attended the ceremony with Zac Posen, the designer who created the intricate, navy blue mermaid-tail gown she wore for the big night. Considering it was extremely warm in L.A. on Sunday, it was quite smart of the model-actress to grab a FIJI water while she was still on the red carpet.
Parties began all over L.A. well before the award show even kicked off. Derek and Julianne Hough enjoyed sibling time at the Variety and Women in Film's Pre-Emmy Celebration, sponsored by Mercedes Benz, on Sept. 16, while Jon Voight attended the SHOWTIME Emmy Eve party, sponsored by Heineken, at the Sunset Tower Hotel the following evening.
PHOTOS: Emmys 2016 Behind the Scenes
Jodie Sweetin was all about family time this week. The Fuller House  star and her 8-year-old daughter, Zoie, played with Hasbro's new #FurbyConnect, a fuzzy, digitally interactive toy with Bluetooth technology, at their L.A. home on Sept. 20.
Ashley Tisdale had games on her mind as well. The Young & Hungry producer romped through the first interactive urban orchard at the launch of King's Farm Heroes Super Saga mobile game at New York City's Madison Square Park on Sept. 21.
Elsewhere in the Big Apple that day, Olivia Culpo, Bethenny Frankel, and Jules Wainstein were among the guests who celebrated The Stanton Social's 10+1 anniversary.
Leave it to Heidi Montag to ring in her 30th in a sweet way. The birthday girl was graced with a red velvet cake topped with cotton candy while friends sang "Happy Birthday" at Sugar Factory American Brasserie on Ocean Drive at Hotel Victor Miami in South Beach, Florida, on Sept. 16. Of course, her husband, Spencer Pratt, was there too, rocking a "Make Speidi Famous Again" hat, because, why not.
STAR SIGHTINGS: Nick Jonas Celebrates the Return of Football, Ashley Greene Lives It Up in Italy & More!
Across the country, Chris Evans spent the weekend in Las Vegas at the Nobu Hotel at Caesars Palace. He posed with the Joe Louis statue, known as a lucky spot at the recently upgraded Caesars Palace Race & Sports Book, on Sept. 17.
Daniel Craig had a bit of luck as well. The man also known as James Bond got to introduce The Killers when they headlined the Music Midtown Festival at Atlanta's Piedmont Park on Sept. 18.
Celebrities did a lot more than party, however. Kristen Bell, who's well known as a philanthropist and activist, helped Thrive Market CEO Gunnar Lovelace announce the company's latest initiative to help feed children in need: the 10K Meal Challenge.
Meanwhile, Aaron Carter and Audrina Patridge were among those who stopped by Debbie Durkin's EcoLuxe Luxury Lounge at The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, California, on Sept. 17 to support Shriner's Hospital for Children -- Los Angeles. The 28-year-old singer even celebrated Christmas in September by sitting on Santa's lap!
EXCLUSIVE: Kristen Bell Opens Up About Thrive's Online Food Stamp Petition, Motherhood, and Possibly More 'Veronica Mars'
And getting back to business, Selma Blair was seen having a breakfast-time business meeting at Joan's on Third in Studio City, California, on Sept. 21.
Check out even more star sightings in the gallery below.
Waaaait a minute...
Kim Kardashian West covers the new issue of Wonderland magazine, where the reality star seems to downplay the months-long drama that's gone on between she, her husband Kanye West, and Taylor Swift over the 39-year-old rapper's line from the song  "Famous" song line, "I feel like me and Taylor might still have sex / I made that b**ch famous."
Though Kim said in June that Taylor "totally approved" the line, and a month later  Snapchatted a phone conversation between Kanye and the 1989 singer that appeared to corroborate at least some of her story, Kim now tells the publication that she has never publicly spoken down on her husband's longtime enemy. Swift, however, noted in an Instagram message about the incident, posted in July, that Kanye never told her he was going to use the phrase "that bitch."
"I never publicly talk bad about people. I still don't feel like I have," Kim explains. "I'm being honest. I'm a fan. I like her music. There was no shade."
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian Doesn't Regret Leaking Taylor Swift's 'Famous' Call With Kanye West: 'She's Sick of All of It'
Kim adds that, despite not intending any shade toward Taylor, "Girls in her squad hit me up on text," although she would not name any names, saying, "I'm not petty."
Kim's kinder words toward Taylor are not unlike what we've seen from Kanye, who since his infamous 2009 MTV Video Music Awards moment has made up with Taylor (in the form of a gorgeous floral arrangement), then fallen back into squabble, and as recently as last month, tweeted a photo seemingly promoting Taylor's 1989 album.
So, while Taylor's not exactly being "excluded from this narrative," it seems like maybe Kimye wants to be friends again?
Watch the video below for some more bonkers moments from all of the Taylor/Kim/Kanye drama.
Harley Quinn is coming to Saturday Night Live!
The sketch comedy series is kicking off its 42nd season with Suicide Squad star Margot Robbie guest-hosting the premiere on Oct. 1.
The Weeknd is returning to Studio 8H for his second time as the show's featured musical guest. The 26-year-old "Can't Feel My Face" singer will be promoting his upcoming album, Starboy, which is due out Nov. 26.
MORE: 7 Amazing 'SNL' Fake Movie Trailers You Need To Watch Right Now!
SNL underwent a surprising cast shake-up during the hiatus with the departure of longtime cast members Taren Killam and Jay Pharoah as well as newcomer Jon Rudnitsky, who had only been with the show for one season.
Meanwhile, the show promoted staff writer Mickey Day to the role of featured player, and signed on improv comic Alex Moffat and stand-up comic Melissa Villasenor, who was a semi-finalist during season six of America's Got Talent in 2011.
Robbie recently appeared as the murderous Harley Quinn in Warner Bros. and DC Comics' Suicide Squad, where the 26-year-old Australian actress was the standout star in the otherwise critically panned superhero flick. It was recently announced that Robbie will be starring in her own Harley Quinn solo film.
On Wednesday, Robbie was one of several stars to read "Mean Tweets" on Jimmy Kimmel Live! Check out the video below to see the latest installment in the hilarious segment.
When news broke that Angelina Jolie filed for divorce from Brad Pitt after two years of marriage on Tuesday, Marion Cotillard was quickly pulled in to the shocking drama.
Reports claimed that the 40-year-old actress (who has been in a long-term relationship with Guillaume Canet) and Pitt had an affair while filming the upcoming World War II romantic thriller, Allied. She has since gone on record to deny those claims.
So just who is Cotillard, and how did this rumor come to be? ET's rounded up five things you need to know!
1. She's pregnant -- but NOT with Pitt's baby!
Less than 24 hours after the world learned of Pitt and Jolie's shocking split, the New York Post reported that Jolie had hired a private eye to follow her husband, after she became suspicious he was cheating on her with Cotillard. The French actress took to Instagram to slam the rumors alleging that she was responsible for their breakup. "This is going to be my first and only reaction to the whirlwind news that broke 24 hours ago and that I was swept into," she wrote. "I am not used to commenting on things like this nor taking them seriously but as this situation is spiraling and affecting people I love, I have to speak up."
"Firstly, many years ago, I met the man of my life, father of our son and of the baby we are expecting," she said of Canet and their 5-year-old son, Marcel.  "He is my love, my best friend, the only one that I need. Secondly, to those who have indicated that I am devastated, I am very well, thank you. This crafted conversation isn't distressing. And to all the media and the haters who are quick to pass judgement, I sincerely wish you a swift recovery."
She concluded her post by stating that she hopes Pitt and Jolie "will find peace in this very tumultuous moment."
2. Like Jolie, Cotillard is an Oscar winner.
Aside from their strikingly similar good looks, and the fact that they are both mothers, the two actresses have another thing in common -- they both have wrapped their hands around a golden Academy Award statuette.  In 2008, Cotillard won an Oscar for Best Actress for her role as French singer Edith Piaf in La Vie en Rose.
She also won a Golden Globe for that role, adorably telling ET, "The nomination was huge, but this was -- I don't know what to say, but I'm very happy!"
3. She supports her competitors.
That same year, Cotillard was nominated for a SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role. She was up against Jolie, who was nominated for her portrayal of Mariane Pearl in A Mighty Heart.
"They really gave me the desire to be an actress," Cotillard said of being in the same category as some of her idols. "To be here, to have a nomination amongst these amazing actresses, it is something huge."
4. Her current partner was once married to another celebrity.
Before Cotillard swooped Canet off his feet, the French director was married to Diane Kruger from 2001 to 2006. "For a long time I felt that I was so accomplished. 'Oh I speak three languages, I travel the world, I've seen so many things,'" Kruger later said in an interview with Marie Claire U.K. in 2013. "But when I turned 30 I realized I was an idiot. I don't know s**t about anything. At the end of the day, I'm not bitter. I love men. I want a family myself. I'm not angry with him anymore."
5. She's red carpet royalty.
At the 2008 Academy Awards, Cotillard landed a spot on every Best Dressed list for the stunning, mermaid-like Jean Paul Gaultier couture gown she sported to the star-studded show. The fabulous frock has since become one of the best Oscar dresses of all time.
For most people, getting mistaken for Matt Damon would be flattering, but that's not necessarily true if you're Mark Wahlberg.
Wahlberg tells ET that after years of fans getting him mixed up with the Oscar winner, it's now become a running joke.
"Now people just do it to bust my chops," says the Deepwater Horizon star. "If it happens, I don't try to correct people."
Wahlberg had a tougher time taking on the persona of real-life hero Mike Williams in Deepwater Horizon, but he was excited for the challenge, which included doing his own stunts. The actor-producer found himself jumping off of a 70-foot-tall oil rig and being set on fire.
"This man can do a lot of amazing things," Williams, who consulted on the film, tells ET.
The movie, inspired by the oil rig explosion in the Gulf of Mexico that took place on April 20, 2010, honors the brave men and women whose heroism saved many on board during the world's largest man-made disaster.
Deepwater Horizon, also starring Kate Hudson, Kurt Russell, John Malkovich and Gina Rodriguez, hits theaters Sept. 30.
Rob Kardashian isn't too keen on the idea of having his daughter follow in her mother’s footsteps.
Blac Chyna takes her fiancée to Sensationals, the Washtington D.C. strip club where she used to dance in a new promo for Rob & Chyna, and while she couldn't be more excited to return to the club, Kardashian doesn't seem too happy to be there.
"If I ever catch my daughter up in here, boy…" he says as they approach the club.
"I'm proud of where I came from, and I just wanted to show Rob what I had to go through, and the environment that I had to be in to make me this person," Chyna says to the camera. "Sensationals, it's like totally ratchet. It might get crazy at times, so I’m not sure how he's going to react."
Watch the promo below:
Heading back to the strip club wasn't the only way Chyna embraced her roots on Thursday -- the 28-year-old model also went wig free on Snapchat.
"Waiting on my baby girl," she wrote alongside one snap of herself, giving a peek of her newly straightened tresses.
"Like, honestly, truly, do you know how long it took for them to put in a side ponytail?" she said in another snap, captioning the pic, "Feels good to be wig free."
Chyna clearly can't wait to welcome her baby girl, and neither can Kardashian.
Just last week, the 29-year-old Arthur George designer shared a sonogram pic of his soon-to-be daughter.
"Can't wait to meet my beautiful baby girl ‼ @blacchyna 😍😍💙💙 looking forward to that bond more than anything ☺," he wrote on Instagram.
See more in the video below.
Tom Brady is one of the fiercest competitors in the NFL, commanding respect on the field and leading 300-pound men into battle against their opposition, but at home, the New England Patriots quarterback is powerless against his 3-year-old daughter, Vivian.
"That little girl owns my day -- owns my life," Brady tells ET.
PICS: Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady Make First Red Carpet Appearance Since 2014
Brady has two kids with wife Gisele Bundchen -- Vivian and 6-year-old son Benjamin. He has a 9-year-old son, John, with ex-girlfriend Bridget Moynahan.
"[I] cannot say no to anything," Brady explains. "Whatever she tells her dad to do, that's what I do. That's just the way it goes."
As for his sons, Brady addressed the possibility of seeing one of them in a Super Bowl someday.
"Who knows if they'll play sports," says the four-time Super Bowl champ. "If they do, I think it's great because I can really help them out, but if they don't, that's up to them."
While on the field, he takes orders from Bill Belichick, but on the red carpet, Brady is coached by his supermodel wife.
"She definitely helps me out," he admits.
Bundchen also assists him with his diet, which does not include a certain fruit.
"I've never had a strawberry in my life. Can you imagine that?" Brady reveals. "It's just not a thing I like."
Prince William is on a mission to save one of our planet's most treasured species.
For the last few years, the 34-year-old royal has spoken out against illegal wildlife trade, which he reiterated during a passionate speech at the Time 4 Change global awareness event in London on Thursday.
Speaking on behalf of the wildlife charity and event sponsor, Tusk, William shared polarizing statistics on the number of African elephants that have been slaughtered since 1982.
"When I was born there were one million elephants roaming Africa," said the father of 3-year-old Prince George, and 1-year-old Prince Charlotte. "By the time my daughter Charlotte was born last year, the numbers of savanna elephants had crashed to just 350,000."
MORE: Watch Prince William Getting Scolded by the Queen Over and Over and Over Again
William warned that if the "current pace of poaching continues," the beloved creatures will be "gone from the wild" by the time his daughter turns 25.
The speech also included a message on rhinos, another animal facing extinction due to the illegal ivory trade. It is estimated that more than 5,000 African rhinos  were killed by poachers between the years of 2008-2015.
"I am not prepared to be part of a generation that lets these iconic species disappear from the wild," William explained. "I am not prepared to explain to our children why we lost this battle when we had the tools to win it."
The Duke of Cambridge's poignant address, coincides with the announcement that he will head to Hanoi, Vietnam on Nov. 17-18 for the third Illegal Wildlife Trade Conference. In addition to attending the conference, William plans to meet with conservationist in the South Asian country.
"We have the opportunity to end, once and for all, the mixed messages we have to sent for too long about the value and desirability of wildlife products," he added. "We have a chance to say that ivory is a symbol of destruction, not of luxury, and not something that anyone needs to buy or sell. We have the chance to say that rhino horn does not cure anything and does not need a legal market."
See how William and his younger brother, Prince Harry, continue to honor their mother, Princes Diana, through charity work in the video below.
Jada Pinkett Smith isn't afraid of aging!
The Bad Moms star, who celebrated her 45th birthday over the weekend, opens up to ET about the perks of getting older.
"I think as you get older, you really get to the point where you just don't care anymore what people think," she says.  "There's a certain freedom that comes with that, [which] you really don't have when you're young. With age comes a lot of wisdom and I'm happier now than I have ever been, so it's good."
Smith says she embraces everything about herself and feels comfortable telling others, "This is me, this is my skin, this is my face, this is my body, love it or leave it."
"I've gotten older, I've gotten more acceptance from myself and I think that releases a lot of stress," she continues. "I take really good care of my body."
Smith also credits her toned physique to her mother, Adrienne Banfield-Jones, who recently tied the knot to her longtime boyfriend earlier this month.
"My mother is 63 and is still looking fine," she quips. "I'm hoping she passed that gene to me, we'll see."
The Gotham actress also shares her secret to parenting and family life.
"You know, it really is putting one foot in front of the other. I wish I had a formula," she explains. "I think it's just knowing my priority. No matter what I am doing, my family is always my priority and I think that is what made it easy."
"In the earlier stages of my family and career… I wasn't quite sure all the time what the priority was and what the priority should be," she adds. "Switched back and forth and then it just got to the point where my family is a priority. Once I had that main priority as my core, everything else falls in place where it needs to be."
Smith will reprise her role as Fish Mooney in season three of Gotham, which airs on Mondays at 8 p.m. ET on Fox. For more on her villainous role, watch the video below.
Priyanka Chopra was the twirling queen of the Emmys!
The Quantico star stopped by The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on Wednesday, where she discussed the gorgeous Jason Wu gown she rocked at the awards show, which featured a train that was spinning all night, once courtesy of Chopra's co-presenter, Tom Hiddleston.
EXCLUSIVE: Priyanka Chopra Says She's Cruel to 'Baywatch' Co-Stars: 'Everyone's Going to Hate Me'
"I walked out with this big train, and I did it for the first time, because I was like, 'Oh, it's so pretty, and I feel princess-y," the 34-year-old actress explained. "And after I twirled once, I was twirling all night."
"All the photographers were like, 'Can you twirl?'" she added. "Then even on stage Tom made me twirl ... I'm the twirling dancing emoji now."
And we've gotta admit, when Fallon put one of Chopra's photos side-by-side with the famous, red-dressed emoji, the observation was pretty spot on!
"This was my Marilyn Monroe moment," Chopra added.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Baywatch' Villain Priyanka Chopra Dishes on Her Favorite Memory of the TV Show
Watch the video below to hear more about Chopra's twirling red gown.
ET caught up with Chopra on the Emmy red carpet, where she opened up about her fierce fashion.
EXCLUSIVE: Priyanka Chopra Stakes Her Claim in the US With 'Quantico'
"It's my little princess moment today," shared. "I'm like free as a bird."
Meanwhile, Chopra -- who stars alongside Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson and Zac Efron in the upcoming Baywatch film due out next year -- also told ET that she's worried audiences will hate her when they see what a baddie her character is.
MORE: Priyanka Chopra Wants to Be the Next 007, Not a Bond Girl
"I'm so bad and so mean and patronizing and evil," she revealed. "I don't know, America's going to hate me."
Watch the video below for more.
Aaron Rodgers is already predicting who will take home the coveted mirror ball trophy on season 23 of Dancing With the Stars.
While chatting with reporters in Detroit on Wednesday, the 32-year-old NFL star revealed he's rooting for former Detroit Lions wide receiver Calvin Johnson to win it all.
Although Aaron admitted he has yet to "catch a glimpse" of Megatron in action -- "I tuned in the other night for just a snippet [but] didn't get to see him dance!" -- he has no doubt that the 30-year-old athlete and his partner, Lindsay Arnold, rocked it onstage.
"I heard [Calvin] did well in week one," Aaron said. "I'm not surprised."
"A lot of NFL guys have been able to do really well on that show," the Green Bay Packers quarterback continued, noting Jerry Rice, who came in second place on season two, and Emmitt Smith, who won season three. "Our own [Packers alum] Donald Driver won the [season 14] mirror ball, so I'll be keeping a loose attention to that."
But when asked if he could ever see himself competing on a show like DWTS, or The Bachelorette, like his youngest brother, Jordan Rodgers, he quickly shut down the idea.
"No, no," Aaron confirmed. "I like to keep my dancing skills as private as possible -- lack of skills."
Before Jordan proposed to JoJo Fletcher during the season 12 finale of The Bachelorette, he made headlines for publicly airing out some family drama on the hit ABC show.
"Me and Aaron don't really have that much of a relationship," Jordan shockingly told JoJo on camera. "It's just kind of the way he's chosen to do life, and I chose to stay close with my family and my parents and my brother."
At the time, multiple sources told ET that Aaron had actually been estranged from his whole family for years. "The entire situation is painful for the family," a source close to the Rodgers clan revealed.
ET chatted with Aaron's girlfriend, Olivia Munn, back in May, who seemingly confirmed the estrangement.
"Aaron doesn't really ... I don't think he's really talked with his brother," the 36-year-old actress stated, when asked about what she and Aaron thought about Jordan joining the reality series. "So, I actually don't know. It's complicated -- I'll say that."
To hear more on Aaron and Jordan's estrangement, watch the video below.
Joe Jonas thinks some things are better kept "behind closed doors."
The 27-year-old singer opened up to Women's Health on his love life and heartbreak, revealing that he's just not one for PDA.
"No, not at all," he said on the topic. "Look, when you really like somebody, that kind of goes out the window. But even around friends and stuff, I think you keep that for the bedroom or behind closed doors."
"Especially at the beginning of the relationship, you've got to be cautious of that," he added.
Jonas must have "really liked" Gigi Hadid, however, as he broke his cardinal rule while the two were dating last summer. Jonas and Hadid cuddled up at Kylie Jenner's birthday party, stole smooches in Paris, packed on the PDA at the U.S. Open, and even took their love to Instagram.
But like the DNCE singer, we're not one to hold a grudge. "Life's too short for that stuff," he told the magazine.
As for how he handled his split with Hadid, Jonas says every breakup is different. "There have been moments where I've had to write a song, and that can be helpful. Or there are moments where you just surround yourself with friends and family," he shared. "Usually I go to my brother Nick. We just hang out, do some bro hanging, and that helps a lot."
The former Disney star is currently single, but reveals that the sexiest qualities in a woman are "a great sense of humor and a good sense of style."
Jonas and Hadid were first rumored to be dating in May 2015, but split just a few months later, in November.
"It was not a dramatic breakup," a source told ET at the time. "They both were too busy and are working a lot in the next few months. Before they dated, they were already good friends and they will definitely stay friendly. No bad blood there. It was amicable."
See more in the video below.
Jessica Simpson's got a super sexy style that just won't quit.
The 36-year-old fashionista turned heads in New York City in a sheer floral top on Wednesday night, stepping out with her husband, Eric Johnson. Simpson highlighted her flat stomach in a pair of chic black trousers, and prominently showed her black bra in the shoulder-baring blouse.
On Tuesday, the mother of two also had jaws dropping in a tight, black minidress and heels, flaunting her famously toned legs as well as plenty of cleavage. Ever the gentleman, 37-year-old Johnson sweetly grabbed his wife's hand to help her over the curb.
Simpson is the latest celeb to get in on the super sheer fashion trend, following Kim Kardashian West, who's been all about the racy style lately.
Last month, Simpson got candid about her curvy physique, revealing that she almost got a breast reduction at one point.
"My boobs just have their own life, they have a way of making themselves present...I thought I was going to get a breast reduction," Simpson told Women's Health magazine. "But after having kids, I look at myself and I’m like, 'You know what, my boobs are actually really big, but I like how they are.' They’re an asset, and Eric loves them still.”
She also called her intense workouts an "emotional experience."
"I give myself so many excuses not to get on the treadmill, to not do that lunge," she admitted. "Workouts are an emotional experience. I exercise to clear my head. It makes me stronger on every level."
Of course, Simpson also keeps active taking care of her kids, 4-year-old Maxwell and 3-year-old Ace.
"I think being a mom is enough of a diet," she told ET when we spoke to her in January. "You have to run around chasing your kids, but I do eat a lot of their corn dogs, so I have to get on the treadmill a lot to watch my TV shows."
Watch below:
Mia Farrow is "devastated" by the death of her son, Thaddeus Wilk Farrow.
The 71-year-old actress took to Twitter to thank fans for the "outpouring of condolences and words of kindness" she and her family have received following Thaddeus' death on Wednesday.
"We're devastated by the loss of Thaddeus, our beloved son and brother," she posted on Thursday. "He was a wonderful, courageous person who overcame so much hardship in his short life. We miss him. Thank you for the outpouring of condolences and words of kindness."
"If you or someone you love needs help, or if you want to support a group doing life saving work, please visit https://afsp.org/," she concluded, linking to the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention.
According to the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner in Connecticut, Thaddeus died of a gunshot wound to the torso. His death has been ruled a suicide.
Thaddeus died at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut on Wednesday, after law enforcement officials found him suffering from the life-threatening injury in his car.
The 27-year-old -- who was a paraplegic as a result of suffering from polio -- was adopted by Farrow from Calcutta, India in 1994.
If your or someone you know needs help, please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255).
Little Women is coming to Dallas!
A source tells ET that the Lifetime franchise is in production on a Lone Star state spinoff of the reality program, with Little Women: Atlanta cast members Emily Fernandez and Brianna Lyn relocating for the new show.
The source adds that the Dallas ladies are "absolutely stunning," and that viewers should expect "big hair, big personalities and big drama" when the series premieres in 2017.
MORE: 'Little Women: LA' Star Briana Renee Welcomes Son One Month Early
It is unclear who will replace the outgoing Fernandez and Lyn back in Atlanta.
Little Women: Dallas will be the fourth spinoff of the original show, Little Women: LA, after the Atlanta show, Little Women: Terra's Little Family, and Little Women: NY.

Reporting by Brendon Geoffrion. 
Little Women: LA currently airs Wednesdays at 9/8c on Lifetime.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Little Women: LA' Star Terra Jole Promises to 'Give Her All' on 'Dancing With the Stars'
Kim Kardashian West wants to take after her late father, Robert Kardashian, Sr.
In an interview with Wonderland magazine (via Daily Mail), the 35-year-old reality star talks about furthering her education, and going into law like her dad, who was best known as one of O.J. Simpson's attorney during his double-murder trial.
EXCLUSIVE: Kim Kardashian Gushes Rob Will Be a 'Great Dad,' Reveals Kanye West Gives Parenting Advice
"If things slow down and I had time, I really want to go to law school," she says. "Just something I can do in my older age."
Kim, however, would first have to get her undergraduate degree as she did not attend college after graduating from Marymount High School, an all-girls school in Los Angeles, California. In fact, Kourtney Kardashian is the only one of Kris Jenner's six children that has a college degree.
In the past, Kim has expressed an interest in another field. “I would be a forensic investigator and live a normal life,” she told the June issue of Vogue Australia. "I'm gonna be that annoying, pushy mom and say I want to live vicariously through my kids and have them be a forensic investigator."
She added, "I've always been into the most morbid things. I was really nosy when my dad was working on the O.J. trial, and I would look through all his stuff, and I just wish I was in that field."
While Kim may fantasize about another career path, when ET spoke with her after she graduated 8th grade, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star was ready for the limelight. "Does everyone get a tape of this?" she asked. "I hope you do so you can see me when I'm famous and remember me as this beautiful little girl!"
Kate Hudson just can't keep off Snapchat!
The 37-year-old actress appeared on Thursday's The Ellen DeGeneres Show to chat about her new movie, Deepwater Horizon, but it seems her favorite app might have gotten in the way.
Hudson and DeGeneres instead hopped in bed together for a little Snapchat fun.
"It's the only time I really have to Snapchat," Hudson explained. "Because, like, I'm in bed, and I have a moment, and I'm like, 'Oh, I want to Snapchat for a second.'"
"I called my friends at Snapchat, and I have an Ellen and Kate filter," she boasted, before giving DeGeneres a little lesson.
According to Hudson, it's all about finding the right angle and lighting before choosing a good filter.
"I like the peas in the pod. The peas in the pod is super cute!" she exclaimed. "If they wanted music… I could've done a whole tutorial with you!"
"Next time," DeGeneres promised.
Check out their hilarious Snaps in the video below.
Hudson has definitely become a Snapchat aficionado in recent months.
ET caught up with the actress in April, where she dished on how she decides what to share with her followers.
"Snaps, you know, it's the moment before you hit send where you do go like, 'Hmm, is this…' You know, I never want it to feel like excessive," she revealed. "There's certain times where there are snaps that I wanted to put out there so bad, but I just went, 'I can't. I can't. I can't.'"
See Hudson's latest racy Snapchat in the video below.
Olivia Wilde is one hot mama!
The 32-year-old actress, who is expecting her second child with fiancé Jason Sudeikis, put her burgeoning belly on full display on Wednesday, stepping out to the Friars Club Entertainment Icon Award event in New York City, which honored her Vinyl director, Martin Scorsese.
Wilde wore a flowy, loose-fitting Valentino dress, which gave fans a perfect peek at her baby bump. She styled her brunette tresses straight with a side part, and completed the glam maternity look with Vita Fede Jewelry, a gold clutch and chunky blue heels.
While posing for photographers on the red carpet, she adorably cradled her belly while flashing a smile. An eyewitness tells ET that later in the night, Wilde joked she was due in three weeks while giving a speech on stage.
The New York native also took to Instagram, writing, "Last night, I got to honor the great Martin Scorsese, as he received the Friars Club Icon Award."
"I successfully did not give birth on stage, AND got to meet Ellen Burstyn," she added. "Quite a night. Thank you @karlawelchstylist, @gitabass, @harryjoshhair, and @maisonvalentino for cleaning us up for the evening!"
Wilde was joined by Leonardo DiCaprio, Sacha Baron Cohen, Jonah Hill and Robert De Niro, who all attended the star-studded event in support of Scorsese.
Wilde and Sudeikis announced they were expecting back in April with an adorable photo of their 2-year-old son, Otis, holding his own belly while smiling at mom. "Matching baby bumps," Wilde captioned the black-and-white snap.
When ET caught up with Sudeikis at The Angry Birds Movie premiere in Los Angeles in May, the 41-year-old actor revealed Otis is already looking forward to becoming a big brother. To hear what the toddler had to say, watch the video below!
Adam Levine is officially a dad!
The Maroon 5 singer and his supermodel wife, Behati Prinsloo, welcomed their first child, Dusty Rose Levine, on Wednesday, ET can confirm. 
The 37-year-old Voice coach, confirmed the couple's pregnancy back in April and told ET exclusively that same month he couldn’t be happier about becoming a father.
"I'm ready to be a dad," Levine explained. "You're born to be a parent, that's what we're here for, really. All the other s**t is great, but it’s not what we're here for."
"When you are doing this for the first time, everybody loves to tell you what you should be doing," he added with a laugh. "So, we're kind of tuning a lot of it out and we're just going to do it how we do it."
EXCLUSIVE: Gwen Stefani Is Helping Adam Levine and Behati Prinsloo Pick Out Baby Names
His former The Voice co-stars, Pharrell Williams and Gwen Stefani, haven't been able to contain their excitement ever since news broke that the couple was expecting their first child.
"I think he's going to be a great dad," Williams told ET earlier this year. "He's competitive, and is in it. He's a really engaged type of person. So, I think he's going to be really engaged with his son or daughter. I know that he's going to be into his child, for sure."
In May, ET caught up with Stefani, where she admitted that she's not good at giving parenting advice, but revealed that Levine has been bouncing off baby names with her.
"I'm not a very good advice giver, but I've definitely been watching her belly grow and I'm so happy for them," the 46-year-old "Misery" singer shared. "Adam keeps texting me like, 'What about this name? What about this name?' So, it's just really fun."
Levine and Prinsloo have been married since July 2014. For more on the happy couple, watch the video below.
Jim Parsons and his Big Bang Theory co-stars are running the table when it comes to TV star salaries.
The male members of the cast snagged the four top spots on Forbes' list of highest-paid TV actors, leading with Parsons, who earned $25.5 million for playing Sheldon from June 1, 2015 to June 1, 2016.
Johnny Galecki, Simon Helberg, and Kunal Nayyar took the next three spots, netting $24 million, $22.5 million, and $22 million, respectively. NCIS' Mark Harmon nabbed the fifth spot with $20 million for the CBS crime series.
On the actress' side, while Kaley Cuoco is hardly pinching pennies for playing Penny -- she made $24.5 million, making her the second-highest earner on Big Bang -- that wasn't enough to overtake Modern Family star Sofia Vergara, who made a staggering $43 million, thanks to multiple lucrative endorsement deals.
And while all of the above are crushing it on the small screen, none of these celebs could top Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, who was named Forbes' highest-paid movie actor this year.
Watch the video below to see how much he took in -- as well as where Vin Diesel falls on the list.
Tamron Hall continues to mourn the loss of her close friend, Prince.
The NBC news anchor opened up to Andy Cohen on Wednesday during a special guest appearance on Watch What Happens Live.
EXCLUSIVE: Tori Kelly Got Emotional Seeing Prince During 'Very Moving' Emmys In Memorium Rehearsal
"It was a devastating surprise. I had no idea," she explained when asked about Prince's substance abuse problem. "I've spent a significant amount of time with him and I had no clue."
Prince was found dead on April 21 in an elevator of his Paisley Park complex outside Minneapolis, Minnesota. An autopsy later revealed that the music icon had died from a self-administered, accidental overdose of the opiod painkiller, Fentanyl. He was 57.
"I've learned a lot about substance abuse since then, and I think that people hide these dark secrets from the people they love," Hall continued. "Of course I question whether I missed signs … I never saw him even drink! So for me it was a devastating thing that I'm still dealing with."
In an interview with MSNBC back in April, Hall shared more details about her friendship with the "Purple Rain" singer.
"There are just great things about him I wish I could tell people, but he wanted them to stay private," Hall said. "He didn't want people to know all of the ways he helped other people. He did it as this silent angel, including how he helped me in my life on many occasions … I'm sorry for the world losing his gift, but he's not gone."
READ: Prince's Paisley Park to Become a Museum
Shortly after Prince's death, his longtime friend and onetime fiancée, Sheila E., got candid with ET about the physical pain that the superstar was in prior to his death.
"I mean, you think about all the years he was jumping off those risers," she recalled. "They were not low -- they were very, very high -- and to jump off that ... First of all, the Purple Rain tour and the way that they were stacked, he had those heels on. We did a year of touring [and] for him to jump off of that -- just an entire year would have messed up his knees."
"He was in pain all the time, but he was a performer," she added. See the interview below.
The Los Angeles Police Department released a statement to ET on Thursday in regard to reports that they were investigating Brad Pitt for allegedly being physically and verbally abusive with one of the six children he shares with Angelina Jolie.
The LAPD says they have not received any reports or phone calls about an incident that allegedly occurred on the couple's private plane while Jolie and some of their kids were present.
"The LAPD is not handling any reports or allegations into child abuse for Mr. Brad Pitt," the public information officer told ET. Police officials said that any suspicions of child abuse within their jurisdiction are fully investigated. Had police received a call regarding child abuse, there would be a record of that initial investigation. In this case, there simply was not.
According to People, an anonymous tip was made to the Department of Child and Family Services after an alleged altercation last Wednesday.
The L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services told ET,
 “We have very strict confidentiality laws and the laws do not allow us 
to confirm or deny the subjects of our investigations.”
Amara Suarez, Department of Child and Family Services public information officer, tells ET that when an anonymous tip is received regarding a minor, a social worker is sent to the home to investigate the allegations of child abuse, if there is enough information provided that a child may be in danger. "Our hotline staff will get enough questions to determine if someone needs to be sent out immediately or within five days," she explains.
If necessary, the social worker will visit the home to speak to both the parents and the children as well as anyone involved and/or associated with the family that can provide further information about the alleged incident. "We do a very thorough investigation," Suarez continues. "If we determine there is a case, then we open an investigation."
DCFS has 30 days to investigate and if it is determined the child is safe, the investigation will be closed. If it is determined the child is unsafe, DCFS will file a petition with the court to have the child removed from the home. DCFS will contact the police department if the reported case involves sexual abuse, physical abuse and severe neglect. Rarely if ever is the LAPD involved in cases other than that.
Jolie, 41, filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday and requested full physical custody of the children, Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 8. She is also asking for shared legal custody of the kids, and cites irreconcilable differences as the reason for the couple's split.
If physical custody is granted to Jolie, the kids would live with her full-time, and be allowed visits and sleepovers with their father.
ET has reached out to Pitt and Jolie's reps.
After the couple's secret nuptials in France in August 2014, Jolie revealed to Vanity Fair the wedding vows that her and Pitt's kids wrote for their famous parents. "They did not expect us never to fight, but they made us promise to always say, 'Sorry,' if we do," she shared.
Thomas Gibson is telling his side of the story when it comes to the incident that cost him his longtime gig on CBS' Criminal Minds last month.
The 54-year-old actor -- who portrayed main character Aaron Hotchner on the crime drama since its premiere in 2005 -- was initially suspended for two weeks after he allegedly kicked writer-producer Virgil Williams on set, but was permanently let go from the show a day later. In his first interview about the incident, Gibson says he actually "tapped" Williams on the leg when the writer was coming towards him.
"We were shooting a scene late one night when I went to Virgil and told him there was a line that I thought contradicted an earlier line," Gibson tells People. "He said, 'Sorry, it's necessary, and I absolutely have to have it.'"
The former Dharma & Greg star says he went into another room and shared Williams' words with a few of his co-stars, when Williams entered the room and "started coming towards" him.
"As he brushed past me, my foot came up and tapped him on the leg," Gibson says. "If I hadn't moved, he would have run into me. We had some choice words, for which I apologized the next day, and that was it. It was over. We shot the scene, I went home -- and I never got to go back."
"I feel like it took years to make a good reputation and a minute to damage it," he adds.
Gibson says he is unhappy with the way the show is handling his exit in season 12. In the statement announcing that Gibson had been dismissed from Criminal Minds, ABC Studios and CBS Television Studios stated, "Creative details for how the character's exit will be addressed in the show will be announced at a later date."
"It seems like they're trying to erase me from the show. That hurts," Gibson says. "But I'm using this time to be with my kids, and I look forward to what's next. Maybe I'll do a comedy, or a play, or direct, or produce."
Last month, Gibson addressed his firing and thanked his fans for their support when he joined Twitter.
"I love Criminal Minds, & I'm disappointed by what's happened," he tweeted. " ... This is not an ending, but a beginning as well. Thank you all."
This isn't the only drama the Criminal Minds cast has experienced in recent months. Watch the video below for more! 
Ben Schnetzer has played an NSA hacker (Snowden), one of the most powerful wizards in Stormwind Kingdom (Warcraft) and a fraternity pledge enduring the various hells of Hell Week in Goat -- and that was this year alone. Only the latter gave him the chance full-on punch James Franco in the stomach, though.
In Goat, out Sept. 23, the 26-year-old actor plays a college freshman navigating the world of cocaine, threesomes and gentlemanliness to prove he's worthy of joining his big bro's (Nick Jonas) house. As for the "Based on Actual Events" hazing at the center of the film, it's likely exactly as you'd imagine -- though that does little in the way of making it easier to stomach. "It's definitely pretty relentless and uncompromising. But that's the movie we all set out to make," Schnetzer excitedly explains during a conversation with ET. "We knew it was going to be--" He pauses a moment, choosing his words carefully. "Fierce."
EXCLUSIVE: Nick Jonas Compares 'Living a Public Life' to Getting Hazed: 'It's a Bit Like Being Unfairly Judged'
ET: This is a movie really sticks with you. Some of those scenes are just so tough to watch. Is there one scene that you remember being particularly intense to film?
Ben Schnetzer: The first hazing sequence, where they bring us down into the basement, that was really intense to film. Because there were two big hazing sequences: there's one out in the woods and then there's one where we get brought to the basement. We shot the one in the woods first, which was weird and it was very challenging, but we got through it and at the end of the day, we felt like, "Oh man, we just accomplished something!" There's a scene at the end of it too, where the brothers all break into the room and they cheer for us, so it felt like, triumphant once we finally got through it.
But shooting that basement hazing sequence was one of the last days of filming and I think maybe there was just something about being underground and feeling claustrophobic, but it was just psychologically really difficult. It wasn't the physical stuff. It wasn't the yelling. It was... There are just certain moments when you feel humiliated, and that was the toughest part to get through.
The whole time I was watching, I kept thinking, "I know you're filming a movie and you're on set, but you're still kind of getting hazed! You're still getting stuff poured on you, you're still getting screamed at."
Yeah, it's really interesting to hear [director] Andrew [Neel] talk about it. But looking back, it was kind of like performance art. Our director of photography on the film, Ethan Palmer, was really in the trenches with us from the beginning. They did a lot of handheld work, so we'd do 25-minute takes and it was shot kind of documentary-style. Andrew would call "action" and we would freeform and improvise for 25 minutes during these sequences, with Ethan just roaming and filming. After the first 45 seconds, you forget that the camera is there and it really gives you time to give over and let your self-consciousness go. You get out of your own way, and it's a really lovely feeling as an actor. Even if you are getting, you know, non-alcoholic beer shoved down your throat.
With those harder-to-shoot scenes, do you try to break the tension between takes or do you keep that vibe going?
I think on Goat, because it was such a short shoot, we wanted to keep the engines burning. We didn't really want to take it out of gear. On some films, it is very, very useful to break up the tension and to just air things out and loosen up. But on Goat, we kind of all stayed in it.
Especially those hazing days, Andrew kept us separated. As soon as we'd show up for work in the morning, he would separate the pledges from the brothers. And he wasn't dictatorial about it, but he requested that we leave each other alone between takes-- don't talk to each other. So he would sustain the tension between all of us on set and the mystery, because he wouldn't tell us what they were going to do to us! He would take us into different rooms and give us each an individual chat, so we didn't know what they were going to do to us when we shot the hazing scenes. [Laughs] So, that was fun!
On a more positive note, you and Nick seem to have really developed a brotherly bond in this. What kind of talks or bonding do you have ahead of time to establish that?
That's really cool of you to say. That means a lot, man. We shot this in Ohio and Nick and I got out there about a week before the rest of the cast, and I think we both showed up very game. There was no time to really feel uncomfortable or really feel each other out. We had to just dive into it. And having that week out there, just the two of us, gave us a chance to establish a relationship and a rapport. And I think whenever you have a common goal with someone, you're going to bond. It's really hard to get two people together and be like, "Hey guys, why don't you just bond!" But if you say, "Listen, I need you guys to build this house, or I need you to do this or I need you to make this movie," you'll get to work and you'll get close.
Nick's just genuinely a really great guy, and he's a very easy person to get along with, which is fortunate. Because it would have been a lot tougher of a shoot if he'd been an asshole! We just hit it off. We met and we had a mutual respect for each, and we knew that this film was going to demand a lot from both of us. Neither of us was afraid to ask the other one for help. That's a really lovely position to be in when you're working on something, particularly with another guy your age, to feel supported.
Is James Franco as intense as he seems to be?
You know... [Laughs] I have no idea! Talk about improv, that whole scene with him was totally improvised. I had no idea he was going to slap me in the face! It's so wild, because we just saw him last night at the premiere and he's like, totally docile, totally chill, like the sweetest guy ever. But he was only on set shooting for one day and it was shooting that scene and, yeah, he just totally went off and slapped me. And he's like, "Hit me back!" And I just remember thinking in my head, "Should I hit James Franco right now? Like, is this for real? I don't want to hit him and then get in trouble." But I loved it. I will never forget that day of filming. That was one of the most exhilarating days of filming I've ever had.
Doing a lot of this stuff for real and feeling hungry -- it's really special atmosphere on a set where you have a lot of young guys and none had done a lot of work in the past. I think we were all ready to let it all hang out. I wanted Andrew to have to rein us back. I didn't want him to ever feel like he had to push us further. And Franco really set the bar for that, coming in and just smacking the s**t out of me. [Laugh]
When you say "for real," you actually punched James Franco in the stomach?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah! Franco's like, "Punch me in the stomach!" and all this stuff and my character is supposed to kind of hem and haw about it. And then he pulled his shirt off and he just slapped me in the face, and I didn't want to slap him back, because there's another scene in the film where I go slap for slap with a guy. But he just kept slapping me in the face until I punched him in the stomach. And then Andrew took me aside after the take and he's like, "Hey man, you OK? Is your face OK?" He's like, "OK, so James said you should hit him back and between you and me, hit him back hard and hit him soon, because the longer you wait, the more he's going to hit you." I was like, "Oh, OK... Thanks."
But that's one of the most memorable scenes of the film and I have to say, James' character is this legacy frat brother who we all admire, who we all look up to, who there are all these stories about and it was a natural fit, because James Franco is a guy we grew up idolizing. He was a big deal for me when I was a teenager, when I first started getting into acting and I saw City by the Sea and I saw him play James Dean and I watched Freaks and Geeks. He was one of my heroes when I was a kid. So, it was completely surreal getting to work with him.
And now you've punched him!
And now I've punched him!
One of the things I'm always curious about is convincingly playing drunk. And all of the guys are very good at it, but you're especially good at playing drunk.
Aww! That's so cool of you to say! We did so much work on playing drunk. Gus Halper, the actor who plays [fraternity president] Chance, he and I have been best friends since we were like five years old. We grew up together. We totally randomly, independently got cast in the film together. But he and I, we tried to put work into playing drunk. You know what was actually a really good resource? You ever watch the show Drunk History? We would just sit down and watch Drunk History together and mimic it. Because he's got that great drunk scene as well, where we're in the legacy room and we've got the cigars and he's like, talking about his dad and it's really uncomfortable. That was also all improvised.
Do you come away from shooting a movie like this with a different opinion on frats?
Yeah, I think so. The fact that it's set in the context of a fraternity is obviously ultra relevant, but for me, I think I came away more with a different perspective on brotherhood and on the relationship between brothers growing into themselves and accepting one another as adults. I grew up with an older brother and the bond between siblings is unlike anything else, and it can be a real journey to accept what that bond is once you both mature into it. Because it's not always what you want, it's not always what you expect, it's not always what you imagined or hoped. But it's one of the most important things in the world. My relationship with my brother is one of the most important relationships in my life. For me, it was more about that than it was about the fraternity.
That said, it's weird, because I spoke to a lot of guys who were in frats in research for the film. Despite all of the horror stories they told me, at the end of every pseudo interview I would do with them, where they would talk to me about all this crazy s**t they would have to do, I'd ask him if he could go back and do it again, would you? And every single one said, "Yeah. In a heartbeat." So, I think the desire to undergo a right of passage is a very natural thing for young men and young women, but I think whenever you start playing with power dynamics and you add booze to the equation and you throw in pack mentality and you take away consequences, that's when you really start playing with fire. And if you have a pledge master who is like, an honest, moral, good person, I think fraternities can be great nine times out of 10. But they can be dangerous. But you don't need me or Nick Jonas to tell you that.
[This interview has been edited and condensed.]
Even Hillary Clinton has a sense of humor about this year's particularly intense presidential election.
The 68-year-old Democratic nominee made a surprise appearance on Zach Galifianakis' Between Two Ferns show, when she gamely faced the comedian's notoriously brutal questions.
"As secretary how many words per minute can you type? And how does President Obama like his coffee -- like himself, weak?" Galifianakis bluntly inquired.
"You know Zach, those are real out-of-date questions. You need to get out more," Clinton fired back.
Of course, the Hangover star didn't stop there. "What happens when you become pregnant? Are we gonna be stuck with (Democratic vice presidential nominee) Tim Kaine for nine months, how does this work?" he continued.
"I could send you some pamphlets that might help you understand," Clinton quipped.
Of course, some of their biggest digs came at the expense of Republican nominee Donald Trump. When Clinton says she thinks Trump will wear a "red power tie" to the upcoming debates, Galifianakis quipped, "Or maybe, like, a white power tie."
"That's even more appropriate," Clinton deadpanned.
But even the presidential hopeful couldn't come up with a response when Galifianakis joked, "When you see how well it works for Donald Trump, do you ever think to yourself, 'Oh,  maybe I should be more racist?'"
Watch the video below for her priceless reaction.
This isn't the first time a major politician has appeared on Between Two Ferns. In March 2014, President Barack Obama expertly faced Galifianakis' hilariously offensive questions.
One of the most memorable Between Two Ferns episodes featured Brad Pitt in October 2014, when Galifianakis brought up his ex-wife, Jennifer Aniston, and her beloved Friends character, Rachel.
"Tell me, when you first laid eyes on Angelina [Jolie], is it like one of those classical love stories, like when Ross first saw Rachel? You know that show Friends, have you seen it?" he boldly asked.
Watch Pitt's response below:
Gigi Hadid did not appreciate one over-eager onlooker in Milan on Thursday. The 21-year-old supermodel was walking the streets to attend a Milan Fashion Week event when a man in the crowd lunged at her, grabbing her from behind.
The individual wrapped his arms around Hadid’s waist and lifted her into the air. Hadid flailed and elbowed the man until she was released, then yelled at him, “Who the f**k are you, you piece of s**t!”
After a Twitter user slammed a headline condemning Hadid for fighting back, the model thanked her.
PHOTOS: Gigi Hadid Ditches Pants, Steps Out in Nude Bodysuit During Milan Fashion Week 
“THANK YOU Rachel,” she tweeted. “To unknown article writer: fan?!!! The ACTUAL fans that were there can tell you what happened. I’m a HUMAN BEING – and had EVERY RIGHT to defend myself. How dare that idiot think he has the right to man-handle a complete stranger. He ran quick tho.”
TMZ has identified the man as notorious red carpet prankster Vitalii Sediuk. In the past, the Ukrainian comedian has made headlines for kissing Will Smith, attacking Brad Pitt and rushing the stage during the 2013 GRAMMYS.
Hadid has been turning heads in Italy for Milan Fashion Week. After walking in the MaxMara show on Wednesday, she hit the Fendi catwalk the next day in an entirely sheer dress and no bra.
MORE: Kendall Jenner, Gigi and Bella Hadid Rock Rainbow Dreadlocks Inspired by Lana Wachowski at Marc Jacobs NYFW Show
But it was her younger sister, Bella Hadid, that Gigi was gushing over after the runway show.
“Had to hold back tears of pride & joy watching my beautiful lil sis open the @fendi show today!!!!!!!!" she captioned a pic of her 19-year-old sibling. "Thank you so much for having me @karllagerfeld  @amandaharlech @pg_dmcasting." EXCLUSIVE: Gigi Hadid Confirms Taylor Swift Has New Music On the Way After Tom Hiddleston Split

Tim McGraw is still smitten with his wife of nearly 20 years.
In celebration of Faith Hill's 49th birthday, her doting husband posted a throwback photo of her along with a super sweet message.
"Happy birthday to this crazy, talented, beautiful woman,"  the 49-year-old country crooner wrote. "I am so lucky to be married to and be with her for the rest of my life. The best mother and role model that my 3 daughters could possibly have. She is extraordinary!!
Hill also received lots of birthday wishes from her fans and took to Instagram to express her gratitude. "Thank you to my fans for all of the wonderful birthday wishes," she captioned a scene photo. "This is one of my most favorite places I've ever traveled. (Add this to your must-see list.) Mile marker 17 on Hwy 1 in Pebble Beach, California. A spiritual place that has always made me cry like a baby. Just ask my children!"
McGraw also loves to brag about his oldest daughter, Gracie. The 19-year-old is taking after her parents and sings on her father's latest album. "She's way more talented than I am, anyway," McGraw gushed to ET. "She doesn't need any advice from me. She's so bubbly and she fills up a room when she walks in. She's got so much talent and is such a great songwriter, we're going to hear from her down the road, for sure."
Amber Rose is "f**king sore."
The 32-year-old media mogul opened up about her Dancing With the Stars experience on Thursday's episode of Loveline With Amber Rose on Play.it, revealing that she's already begun losing weight through the training process.
"I feel like I'm getting super toned," Rose told her co-host, Dr. Chris Donaghue. "I feel like I've lost probably 10 pounds, maybe eight pounds, already. It's serious!"
Rose admitted that she "literally started crying" after learning she could have been sent home earlier this week, with the co-hosts likening the show to a summer camp.
"People don't understand how much work goes into it," she said. "You're with your partner four to five hours a day. Then you get home, you're on the phone with them, like, what you need to work on, what you need to do. Then you go to the ballroom and it's all the other celebrities and other dancers -- it really is like a family."
Rose did make it through to see another week of competition, and couldn't help gushing about her partner, Maksim Chmerkovskiy,  who she calls "such a dear friend."
"When I used to watch the show, I'm like, 'Damn! They're really affectionate! They're probably all f**king each other and s**t," she said, prompting Donaghue to ask if any partners are hooking up behind the scenes.
"S**t, I don't know!" Rose said with a laugh. "My partner has a fiancee!"
Still, Rose said it can get "awkward" when Chmerkovskiy's fiancee, former fellow DWTS pro Peta Murgatroyd, who is currently six months pregnant with the couple's first child.
"It does become awkward when she's at the rehearsal and she's like, 'Listen, vagina and balls, they need to touch or you're not doing it right,'" Rose joked. "I"m like, 'Uh, this is your fiance! This is weird! But it's all for the greater good of dancing, I guess. That's how it is."
ET was backstage with the contestants as Disney star Jake T. Austin was the first contestant eliminated from season 23 on Tuesday.
“I didn’t expect this at all,” Austin told ET. “Just preparing for the worst, hoping for the best. But this happens and I’m just really lucky that I got this opportunity and I’ll never forget it. Just working with someone like Jenna [Johnson] is unforgettable.”
See the interview below.
How's this for commitment?
Courteney Cox's longtime boyfriend, Snow Patrol frontman Johnny McDaid, recently got the actress' initials tattooed on the inside of his wrist, and proudly showed off his new ink on Instagram.
"Ta-two," McDaid captioned the post on Wednesday, which also showed Cox adorably cuddling next to him.
From the looks of it, 52-year-old Cox and 40-year-old McDaid are stronger than ever after calling off their year-and-a-half engagement last December. The two had been dating since late 2013 and got engaged in June 2014.
By April, the two were back on, as evidenced by the couple sharing a steamy smooch in London.
Last month, the former Friends star opened up about their "brutal" breakup during her appearance on NBC's Running Wild With Bear Grylls.
"I definitely have learned a lot, and no matter what, I will be a better person from that breakup, even though it was so brutal," Cox admitted. "There's something about… you know, he's from Ireland. And the way he regards love is precious. We have to treat it in a different way. It's more special. You coddle it."
"It's just… everything's new," Cox added about how their relationship has changed the second time around. "And we have both really worked on ourselves on the parts that needed the most attention. And it feels really different."
Interestingly enough, Cox's bestie, 47-year-old Jennifer Aniston, has also found herself in the headlines this week due to her love life -- specifically, her relationship with Brad Pitt, who recently split from his wife of two years, Angelina Jolie.
Watch the video below to revisit Aniston's comments on Pitt over the years, who famously began dating Jolie after meeting on the set of Mr. and Mrs. Smith, and shortly after Aniston filed for divorce in 2005.
Kylie Bunbury is about to have her big moment.

Bunbury’s arresting performance was why she was named one of ET’s fall TV breakout stars, and we surprised her with the award while she was filming on location at Los Angeles’ iconic Dodger Stadium.
“Oh my gosh, what? Wow, this is really sweet. I feel like I’m going to cry,” Bunbury said, breaking down in tears upon receiving the award. “This is cool. I really appreciate it. Why would you make me cry?!”

“You guys are perfect prophets,” Mark Consuelos said, while Mark-Paul Gosselaar called Bunbury “a special, special woman.” “You watch her on screen and she just melts you,” he marveled.
Bunbury hopes audiences will gravitate toward Pitch, premiering Thursday, for its inspirational and heart-wrenching tale, which charts how Ginny’s journey as a young girl leads her to the present day.

The former model, who was among hundreds to audition for the role of Ginny, trained hard to get into baseball shape.
“It’s been boot camp,” Bunbury said. “I had two and a half months to learn how to pitch before the pilot. I am boxing three days a week and just getting the body right and tight.”
So far, so good. Even though Ginny’s debut in the baseball pros is rocky at best, Bunbury says her alter ego’s “already got swagger.”

Bunbury also understands the significance of playing the first female MLB pitcher on the small screen.
“I am completely honored that I am getting to play this. This entire group has put their belief in me to play this character. It means a lot. That’s why I am putting the work in,” she said. “I want to be a good actress, I want to be a good person and I want to play baseball.”
Pitch premieres Thursday at 9 p.m. ET/PT on Fox.
Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady looked like a couple just off their honeymoon when they made a rare red carpet appearance on Wednesday night.
The pair -- who have been married for seven years -- lovingly posed at National Geographic's Years Of Living Dangerously new season premiere event at the American Museum of Natural History in New York City. Gisele and Tom stepped out in similar styes, with the 39-year-old NFL pro wearing a navy sports jacket and black slacks and the 36-year-old supermodel donning a black business-like suit.
"@YearsofLiving premiere here we come!!" Gisele giddily captioned a photo of herself hugging up close to her husband.
While the the two have made several public appearances over the years -- they were spotted at the supermodel's Spring Fling book launch in April -- this is their first time they have hit the red carpet since 2014 when they attended the Met Gala in NYC.
The couple may not have as much time for events as they are busy raising three kids. Tom recently sat down with ET and opened up about his home life. "Well, [off time] is usually focused around the kids, you know, you spend so much time with them and trying to be a parent -- which is such an important part of our lives -- so, whatever they're into, that's kind of what you do," he shared. "You try to support them and the things that they're doing, and encourage them in different ways."
Brad Pitt is reportedly under investigation for allegedly being physically and verbally abusive with one of the six children he shares with Angelina Jolie.
Just days after news broke that Jolie had filed for divorce from her husband of two years, People magazine is reporting that they confirmed that the Los Angeles Police Department and L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services are both investigating Pitt for an incident that allegedly occurred on the couple's private plane while Jolie and some of their kids, who have not been individually named, were present.
People's source claims that someone anonymously reported the alleged altercation last Wednesday, and claims that Pitt had been drinking at the time.
A source close to Pitt tells the magazine that the 52-year-old actor is taking the matter "very seriously" and is insisting that he "did not commit any abuse of his children."
"It's unfortunate that people involved are continuing to present him in the worst possible light," the source adds.
The L.A. County Department of Children and Family Services tells ET they are "never allowed to comment" on matters that involve minors, while the LAPD says they are "not handling any reports or allegations into child abuse for Mr. Brad Pitt."In addition, ET has reached out to Pitt and Jolie's reps.
Jolie, 41, filed for divorce from Pitt on Monday and requested physical custody of the children, Maddox, 15, Pax, 12, Zahara, 11, Shiloh, 10, and twins Knox and Vivienne, 8. She is also asking for shared legal custody of the kids, and cites irreconcilable differences as the reason for the couple's split.
"I am very saddened by this, but what matters most now is the well-being of our kids," Pitt said in a statement (via People) after news broke of the divorce. "I kindly ask the press to give them the space they deserve during this challenging time."
Jolie's attorney also released a statement, saying, "This decision was made for the health of the family."
Pitt and Jolie -- who met in 2003 on the set of Mr. & Mrs. Smith, and began publicly dating a few years later -- were last seen together with Vivienne and Knox in July when they celebrated the twins' birthdays in Los Angeles, California.
Ian Halperin, the author of Brangelina, tells ET that the way Jolie filed for divorce could indicate that contentious custody negotiations are on the way. "It's going to be the most vicious divorce battle Hollywood's ever seen," he said.
"She's really positioned herself for a career in the U.K.," Halperin continued. "If there is joint custody, Brad could block it and force them to live in the U.S., something she doesn't want. She wants all her children schooled and brought up in the U.K."
Where has the time gone?!
Charlie Sheen took to Twitter on Wednesday and shared a pic of himself with ex-wife Denise Richards and the couple's two daughters -- 12-year-old Sam and 11-year-old Lola  -- writing, "A gaggle of awe sum!!"
We can't get over how grown up the two sisters look as they pose for a happy family photo with their parents.
Richards and Sheen also seem to be on better terms than they were earlier this year, when the exes got involved in a war of words over a lawsuit Richards filed against Sheen claiming that he had stopped honoring a trust for the children.
Sheen's lawyer said the lawsuit was about "money, money, money," while Richards' rep told ET, "Denise is fighting for her children. This has nothing to do with her, the money is for her kids."
"This is about him providing for the children as he agreed to do," the rep added.
Meanwhile, last year, Sheen made a candid admission that he has been living with HIV.
Watch the video below to see the 50-year-old actor open up about his diagnosis.
Things are heating up in Miami, Florida, for the sexiest new couple of summer.
After ET confirmed that Rihanna and Drake are "fully dating," following their sweet interaction on the MTV Video Music Awards stage, the two were spotted looking quite cozy at the 24/7 ultraclub, E11even Miami, on Tuesday night.
A source told ET that the "Work" rapper and singer were spotted "kissing" and getting "very touchy feely" while at the club. "He really didn't leave her side until he performed," the source noticed. "They arrived together in the same car and left together around 5 a.m."
Drake was there to host the club's first Summer Sixteen after-party, and performed a few of his hits following his sold-out concert at the American Airlines Arena. While his attention was directed at Rihanna, a few other famous faces were at the venue, including Future, Lil' Wayne, Bow Wow, Flo Rida and DJ Irie.
EXCLUSIVE: Rihanna and Drake Are Officially 'Dating,' Decided to 'Stop Hiding It From Everyone'
At Sunday's VMAs, Drake professed his undying love for Rihanna, 28, while presenting her with the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award. Since then, the two have basically been inseparable. Following the awards show, they were spotted on a dinner date at Nobu in New York City, and were later seen at Drake's hotel.
The 29-year-old hip-hop artist appears pretty smitten with RiRi, with a source telling ET, "He is so into her."
"They are fully dating," the source says. "No one really knows how long they have been 'official' -- they just decided to let it become a thing instead of hiding it from everyone. They're happy."
The memory of Princess Diana is very much kept alive through her children.
Her sons, Prince William and Prince Harry, along with the Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton,continue to honor her legacy each and every day following her death 19 years ago today.
Princess Diana was tragically killed in a car crash in the Pont de l'Alma tunnel in Paris, France, on Aug. 31, 1997. She was 36 years old.
See how the royal family continues to pay tribute to their mom:
Prince Harry Follows in Diana’s Footsteps to Raise Awareness for HIV and AIDS
Prince Harry, 31, is determined to help save lives and continue the good work that his mother was doing before her death. "His Royal Highness wants to expand his own knowledge of the challenges and opportunities in the fight against the virus around the world," a royal spokesperson said in a statement in late June. "This will see him tackling topics including testing, treatment, and prevention as well as anti-stigma efforts that were famously championed by his mother Diana, Princess of Wales."
Prince William Followed Diana’s Advice on Love
In a recent resurfaced interview, Princess Di can be seen talking about how she told her son the importance of holding on to love. “I put it to William, particularly, that if you find someone you love in life, you must hang onto it, and look after it, and if you were lucky enough to find someone who loved you, then you must protect it,” she said. Of course, William, 34, married his love, Kate Middleton, in April 2011.
Kate Middleton Proudly Wears Diana’s Jewels
The stunning Kate wears the engagement ring given to Diana by William’s father, Prince Charles, every day. Prince William explained at the time why he chose to propose with his mother’s gorgeous jewel. “It’s my way of making sure my mother didn’t miss out on today and the excitement and the fact that we’re going to spend the rest of our lives together,” he said. Late last year, Middleton donned one of her late mother-in-law’s favorite tiaras to a royal engagement.
Expanding Their Family
While Princess Diana never got to meet her grandchildren, Prince George, 3, and Princess Charlotte, 1, those closest to her know she would have loved the role of grandmother. William and Kate honored Diana through their daughter by christening her at the same church she was baptized in at St. Mary Magdalene Church at Queen Elizabeth's Sandringham estate.
Prince Harry also recently spoke about how his mom would feel about him starting a family of his own someday. “I hope she's looking down with tears in her eyes, being incredibly proud of what we've established, I suppose," he told GMA co-anchor Robin Roberts in March. "I'm sure she's longing for me to have kids so she can be a grandmother again."
For more from the royal family, watch below:
It's not easy being a teenager in the age of social media bullying, but Harley Quinn Smith is doing her best to keep a good head on her shoulders.
Luckily, she has some amazing peers to look up to, including her BFF and Yoga Hosers co-star, Lily-Rose Depp, and Ariel Winter.
Yoga Hosers marks the first leading role for Harley, but when she and her famous father, Kevin Smith, spoke to ET on Tuesday, the 17-year-old actress gushed over another project she's dying to have a role in: Modern Family.
EXCLUSIVE: Sarah Hyland Is 'Very Proud' of Ariel Winter's Body Confidence
"That show is spectacular in every way," mused a starry-eyed Harley.
"That's the only thing she ever really talks about," Kevin chimed in. "She's like, 'I want to be on Modern Family one day."
"If they were like, 'You have to slit your father's throat to be on Modern Family,' she would seriously think about it," he jokingly added, making a slitting motion as Harley laughed, "Maybe!"
It helps that Ariel has a major role on it as the middle daughter of the Dunphy family. "I love her," Harley explained. "She's a really big inspiration, for sure."
As much as she loves the ABC sitcom, it's Ariel's off-screen persona that Harley appreciates the most.
"I just love her confidence and she also, in a very eloquent way, doesn't let anybody mess with her on social media," she said. "She gets a lot of harassment for the way she dresses... [and] it's hard to not let it get to you, but she deals with it in such a good way. I just look up to her very much."
Even though her dad has been a public figure for nearly two decades, the spotlight is new for Harley. But much like Ariel, she's already figured out how important it is to use her voice in a positive way, advocating for causes close to her heart, including animal rights and online bullying.
"I know it annoys some people that I write, like, huge paragraphs on Instagram, because that's not what they want to see, but it's really important to use your fame, for lack of a better word, to do something good in the world instead of just selfies," she said, acknowledging that she does, of course, post some of those when Kevin ribbed her about seeing "a lot of selfies, too!"
EXCLUSIVE: Shannen Doherty Gets Major Praise From Kevin Smith: 'You're My F**king Hero'
It's a tough business that Harley has decided to come apart of, one that she admitted to ET that she has to work twice as hard because of the name recognition. "This happens to no one. This is very lucky," she said, though Kevin had his own feelings on the matter.
"Don't beat yourself up, man. Everyone gets a break. You just happen to be related to the break man. Hey, it happened to Ben Affleck, and he wasn't my kid!" he reiterated to Harley, referring to casting his old friend in movies like Mallrats and Chasing Amy.
"Everyone brings something to the table," he added. "This wasn't me going, 'Let's push this kid into show business because that's what the family does… but [Harley] showed A) interest and B) a natural aptitude, and suddenly I was like, if she likes this s**t, I used to do this s**t really well back in the day -- not so much anymore -- but I can literally put her in movies. Everything you described as this first-time experience is awesome for her, except it comes with a price tag: the movie is a Kevin Smith movie. You know what I'm saying? That's a deficit. She'll be working off that deficit for the rest of her life."
Kevin is self-deprecating, which, in part, undoubtedly serves as a bit of a self-defense mechanism from having had a ton of cruel words thrown his way over the years by both critics and fans alike. Harley is already seeing the unfortunate side effects of criticism at the hands of Internet anonymity, but it's the shade thrown at her dad that affects her the most.
"Nobody wants to see anybody they love get or receive hate, so it really makes me feel really [bad]," she admitted. "I kind of hate seeing criticism towards my dad more than me. It does hurt."
Though Kevin can come off as a comic book-loving big kid, he and his wife, Jennifer Schwalbach Smith, have clearly shaped Harley into a strong, poised young woman, and he's "insanely proud" of his only child.
"Of course, I have to love her by virtue of the fact that she's my daughter, but I don't have to like her as a human being. And I do like her a lot," he explained. "I have a fondness for her. I would hang out with her if we didn't know each other. She's got a good head and heart -- that's the most important thing to me."
"How that happened? I give all the credit to Jen…  Whenever I see Harley, naturally, I see my daughter, I see her own person, but I see the strong work my wife did while I was off f**king around with a backwards baseball cap," he added. "What I recognize in myself in her is the stuff that you can't avoid. Her and I are kind of like twins, except that she's d**kless and beardless, essentially. So, we're very in sync with one another." ("It's true," agreed Harley.)
So, yes, comic book sensibilities and goofy natures aside, Harley is mature beyond her years. She even has the whole dating thing down better than some adults! The actress has been with her boyfriend, Corey Ring, for over three years, and, yes, Dad digs him.
"This kid is it on a stick, man," Kevin told ET. "I may like him a little better than her."
"I think you do as well," Harley quipped.
"Once she was of age to start dating, there was a fear of, 'I don't care how good your personal radar is for somebody, people get in all the time that turn out to be ticking time bombs.' You can never tell," he continued. "Cory is this like incredibly upstanding, good dude. They were dating for like six months and I said, 'Marry this man'.  And she was like, 'I'm 15, Dad, and I said, 'Doesn't matter, because it doesn't get better than this.' And my wife gets angry. She's like, 'She's got to date a lot of people in life before she gets married.' And I'm like, 'F**k that! She found a good f**king dude.'"
So, how does Harley feel about marriage at such a young age? While she clearly appreciates having her dad's approval, she admitted, "That's crazy!"
As grown up as she might be, the high school senior is fully aware that she's still got to get through the next few years like a normal teen. In fact, it's nice to see that Yoga Hosers doesn't feature Harley or Lily-Rose trying to act like grown-ups, but rather like the 15-year-olds they were while filming.
"They never said, 'Dad, we don't talk like this,'" Kevin points out, "but I encouraged the girls like, 'Look, you've got to remember this was written by a middle-aged man, and I know your voices, but at the same time, I don't know what kids talk about these day or the catchphrases, so anything you guys feel like putting in, put in.' So the girls say basic a lot in the movie, and that was them. They were like, 'Right now everyone says basic b**ch. And I was like, 'We're not going to say b**ch, so let's go with basic,' and they were like, 'Basic's cool.' So yeah, they informed it quite a bit, and thankfully they were never like, 'This reeks of a 45-year-old man!'"
Yoga Hosers hits theaters Sept. 2.
It isn't just legions of LGBT fans who are inspired by her unconditional love for them -- Dolly Parton's longtime gay advocacy hits even closer to home.
The country music legend reveals that she's had heart-to-hearts with gay family members still living in her Tennessee hometown who have struggled with coming out.
"I did find out I have many gays and lesbians in my own family," Parton, 70, shares in a new interview with Chris Azzopardi at PrideSource. "We accept them, we embrace them. Oh, there are some in the mountains who still don't know quite what to make of it or how they should feel about it, but they're ours and they're who they are and we know they're wonderful and they're like us. We love the fact that they are who they are and we nurture that. We don't try to make them feel separate or different. We embrace it."
The gay icon says that she has become a shoulder to lean on for her LGBT relatives, whom she reveals often come to her to work through their issues regarding their sexuality.
"I say, 'You need to let people know who you are and you need to come on out. You don't need to live your life in darkness – what's the point in that?'" Parton says. "You're never gonna be happy; you're gonna be sick. You're not gonna be healthy if you try to suppress your feelings and who you are.'"
She adds, "Whether it's about being gay or whatever, a lot of people do me like they used to do my mama and come to talk to me about things. Hopefully, I'm able to help. I think I have."
The revelation regarding Parton's gay kin comes on the heels of her 43rd album, Pure & Simple, which includes a song called "Outside Your Door," about friends with benefits. The singer has been married for 50 years to Carl Dean, and when asked about the sexy song's inspiration, Parton laughs.
"Well, I'm married, but I'm not dead!" she says. "I'm a romantic, fantasy person and I've felt all of those feelings. I've been through everything in my life. … And hell, you don't get too old to fantasize!"
Watch Parton talk about her first major U.S. tour in 25 years in the video below.
Amy Schumer just received the highest praise from J.K. Rowling!
The Harry Potter author stopped by Schumer's stand-up show in Edinburgh, Scotland, on Tuesday and had nothing but love for the Trainwreck star.
"Just seen the goddess that is @amyschumer live in Edinburgh," Rowling wrote on Twitter. "What a night." 
Schumer, who's currently on a massive 54-date world stand-up tour, quickly replied: "Thank you so much! Did you like my sister's gryffindor hat?!" 
"I *loved* the Gryffindor hat," Rowling responded. 
The 35-year-old comedian has clearly been enjoying the European leg of her tour, posting behind-the-scenes moments of her adventures in Amsterdam, Dublin and Edinburgh.     
The Inside Amy Schumer star is also busy promoting her new book, The Girl With the Lower Back Tattoo, and recently spoke with ET about the new project and her relationship with boyfriend Ben Hanisch.
"I usually would go for narcissists who, you know, could never be happy," she admitted. "[Ben's] just very supportive and loving and I think we're very proud of each other. He is so far removed from this business that it's really nice."
For more on the happy couple, watch the video below.
Emmy-nominated actor and musician Darren Criss will serenade lucky fans with a special acoustic performance from the Broadway hit, Hedwig and the Angry Inch!
The performance, which will take place on Sept. 15 on the rooftop of the Montalbán Theatre in Los Angeles, is part of the popular Rooftop Cinema Club series — an outdoor screening experience that shows cult and recent films on rooftop venues around the world.
This comes just ahead of Criss reprising his lead role in the critically acclaimed musical during its U.S. tour this fall. Criss will first perform at the SHN Golden Gate Theatre in San Francisco in October, followed by the Hollywood Pantages Theatre in Los Angeles in November.
“We are thrilled to have Darren join us and our guests for the screening of Hedwig and the Angry Inch. He is an incredible and talented performer, it will be such a treat to for all the Hedwig fans to get the opportunity to see him perform a song from the film,” said Gerry Cottle Jnr, creator and owner of Rooftop Cinema Club.
Tickets are available for the Rooftop screening at http://rooftopcinemaclub.com/la now. Tickets sell out quickly, and guests must be over the age of 18.
Last month, ET was exclusively on the very same rooftop with Mel B., aka Scary Spice, for a showing of the now-cult classic, Spice World. Check out the secrets she revealed in the video below!
Tom Brady's has a new haircut!
The New England Patriots quarterback, who is no stranger to switching up his beneath-the-helmet style, turned up to a press conference Tuesday sporting a brand new 'do.
Predictably, the internet had a lot to say about the 39-year-old's fresh cut, and has been letting out all their thoughts on Twitter like air from a football.
It reminded some people of school picture day...
Popular 90's TV shows like Saved by the Bell and Boy Meets World....
MORE: Tom Brady Not Only Doesn't Drink Coffee, He's Never Even Tried It!
Just Jonathan Taylor Thomas in general....
Really, the range of comparisons was quite impressive.
And one guy thought he should have his #DeflateGate suspension extended to grow out the look.
MORE: Gisele Bundchen and Tom Brady's Vacation Diet Is Just as Healthy as You'd Expect It to Be
Personally, we love how adventurous the NFL pro is with his hairstyles!
Let 'em, talk, Tom! Your dome is your dominion.
Watch the video below for another one of Tom's looks that drew the internet's attention.
Stranger Things fans can now rest easy -- a second season is officially coming to Netflix!
The exciting news was announced Wednesday morning on the supernatural series' official Twitter account, complete with a video promising "the adventure continues" and is "coming in 2017."
Following the announcement, fans of the '80s-inspired show couldn't keep their cool on Twitter, posting hilarious memes, reaction gifs, and writing things like, "MY BODY IS READY," "I'M CRYING," and "OMG, my year is made!!!!"
It wasn't long before members of the beloved season one cast weighed in. Shannon Purser, who portrayed Barb, tweeted, "We've finally been renewed for Season 2!!! So happy for my fellow cast! Hope to see them again soon."
Her tweet sparked rumors that her character, who was -- SPOILER ALERT! -- killed off by a Demogorgon, may be making a return -- or, at the very least, perhaps getting proper "#JusticeForBarb."
"Sorry guys, I'm as much in the dark about s2 as you are," Purser clarified. "I say 'we' because the cast/crew have become a bit of a family for me. So proud."
Meanwhile, Millie Bobby Brown (Eleven) took to Instagram to share her excitement with an adorable video that also featured her co-star, Noah Schnapp (Will Byers).
She also posted a photo of herself in character from the eight-episode first season, captioning it, "stranger things season 2 has been confirmed; coming in 2017!"
Gaten Matarazzo, who portrays Dustin, also opted for an Instagram video, thanking his fans for their constant support.
"Hey guys, I just wanted to be the first to tell you, they have officially announced season two, I'm so excited," he exclaimed. "I am so excited, guys! Thank you guys for helping me out with this. You guys have helped the whole cast, the whole company -- without you guys, I couldn't do any of this."
As for what's in store for season two, show creators the Duffer Brothers are staying tight-lipped, but did tease a few interesting tidbits during a recent interview with Entertainment Weekly.
"I don't think we ever thought anthology," Ross Duffer explained, in regard to their decision to continue the story in the year 1984. "I think we talked like a larger time jump where the kids are older now and it's a different decade. That's something we batted around from the very beginning. But for us, there's still more story here [in the 1980s], there's still things that are unresolved."
While fans can expect the return of Matarazzo, Finn Wolfhard (Mike Wheeler) and Winona Ryder (Joyce Byers), they're leaving one character a surprise. "We don't know about Eleven," they dished. "We leave that up in the air."
That being said, the Duffers revealed there's a lot to look forward to, including four new characters and nine episodes (one longer than the previous season). "There's going to be a lot of new and interesting dynamics that we didn't see in season one," Matt Duffer confirmed.
Season one was set in the small, quiet town of Hawkins, Indiana, and although that's where most of the action will be taking place the second time around, the show creators also confirmed "we will venture a little bit outside of Hawkins."
"I will say the opening scene [of the premiere] does not take place in Hawkins," Matt said, adding that they want to go further explore the series' alternate dimension. "We kinda just peeled back the curtain and revealed a tiny bit of the Upside Down. So we definitely want to explore a little bit more. There's a lot we don't know about the Upside Down at the end of season 1."
"We obviously have this gate to another dimension, which is still very much open in the town of Hawkins," Ross added. "And a lot of questions there in terms of, if the Monster is dead, was it a singular monster? What else could be out there? We really don't go in there much until they go in to find Will at the end. So we've opened up this doorway, and to us it's exciting to talk about, like, what else is behind there? There's a lot more mystery there to be solved."
Calvin Harris is really good at modeling Emporio Armani underwear, even if it's just for an Instagram post.
On Monday, the 32-year-old musician shared a pic of himself posing in only his skivvies alongside his completely clothed manager, Mark Gillespie. "Happy birthday to my manager @gillespiemark. I love u," he sweetly captioned the photo.
The underwear pic comes after he won for Best Male Video at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards for his and Rihanna's song, "This Is What You Came For." Harris seemed to thank everyone in his pre-taped acceptance speech except for the person who helped write the track, his ex-girlfriend, Taylor Swift.
ET was on the scene at the VMAs, and following Harris’ win, boos were heard from the audience, though it wasn’t clear if it was because he skipped the awards show or didn’t give Swift -- who also not in attendance-- recognition for her creative involvement with the song.
Jenny McCarthy and Donnie Wahlberg might never get out of the newlywed stage!
The couple took some time out to share sweet messages on Wednesday celebrating their two-year wedding anniversary, and are clearly more in love than ever. McCarthy and Wahlberg tied the knot at the historic Hotel Baker in St. Charles, Illinois, on Aug. 31, 2014.
McCarthy, 43, shared pics of their big day on Twitter, writing, "Just when I gave up, he came into my life & showed me, true love exists. Happy Anniversary 2 my [heart emoji] @DonnieWahlberg."
"Happy Anniversary Mrs. Wahlberg!," Wahlberg, 47, also tweeted on Wednesday alongside a cute black-and-white pic of the two. "Two years down... forever to go!"
The couple has been together since July 2013, and share three children between them. The New Kids on the Block member has two sons, Xavier and Elijah, with his ex-wife, Kim Fey, while McCarthy also has a son -- Evan -- from her first marriage to actor John Mallory Asher.
ET talked to McCarthy and Wahlberg last January about their A&E docuseries Donnie Loves Jenny, when the former View co-host gushed about their romantic wedding.
"When I walked down the aisle and I locked eyes with Donnie, there was no doubt in my mind," McCarthy said, getting emotional. "I was where I was exactly supposed to be where I was, holding my son's hand who was giving me away to the love of my life, which is why I couldn't wait one more second to kiss you."
Watch the video below to see the sweet moment, including when Wahlberg had tears in his eyes as McCarthy walked down the aisle.
Ray J passionately defends Chris Brown in an exclusive interview with ET's Kevin Frazier.
On Tuesday, Brown was booked and released on a felony charge of assault with a deadly weapon after former Miss California Regional contestant Baylee Curran claimed that he threatened her with a gun at his home in Tarzana, California on Monday night. The 27-year-old R&B artist claims he was asleep when the alleged incident occurred, and took to Instagram before his arrest on Tuesday to reject Curran's claims and deny any wrongdoing.
EXCLUSIVE: Chris Brown's Accuser Baylee Curran Says She Feels 'Validated' By Singer’s Arrest
Ray J left Brown's residence early Tuesday, and was stopped and handcuffed by police on his way out. The 35-year-old singer was allowed to leave by law enforcement after they checked his ID. His BMW, however, was seized as evidence, but Ray J tells ET that he did get his car back.
When speaking about the incident, Ray J vouches for Brown, insisting that the "Forever" singer did nothing wrong. "Chris is my homie and I just can't let people just have this full pile of negativity going on with his name," Ray explains. "We were creating, we were getting tattoos. We was talking about my new project. We were talking about so many different positive things in a tech community that we can do together -- for the community. So, it just hurts my feelings when that gets derailed with stuff like that."
MORE: Chris Brown Released From Jail After Posting $250,000 Bail
Needless to say, Ray J does not think Brown should have been arrested. "It hurts my feelings that you work so hard to try to get better, and a small little lint of a story that you don't even know is even real or not can affect you this much without even getting the facts," he continues. "That's not how the system is suppose to work. That's not what we vote for."
As for whether Curran's statements are truthful, Ray J responds, "Listen, I can't say what's truthful or not, because I have never seen that happen, and I was right there. So, I don't want to comment."
Ray J also claims to not know Curran, saying he's only ever seen her for "like five, 10 minutes."
EXCLUSIVE: Ray J Reacts to Being Depicted Naked in Bed With Kim Kardashian in Kanye West’s ‘Famous’ Video
"The thing about it is, she can't be telling the truth when I'm telling you that certain things are wrong," he says. "Like, find the facts out first. You know what I'm saying? And that's all I'm saying."
Meanwhile, Curran stood by her statements given to police when speaking with ET.
“I went into the backyard and then, when I came back into the house, there was a new male in the home and he was showcasing these diamond bracelets and watches and diamond necklaces,” she explained. “At that point, Chris' friend -- and I don't know who he was to Chris -- saw me looking at them and got a little wary, I guess? Sort of cursing and screaming at me and calling me names saying ‘Get the f**k away from the diamonds. Get the f**k back outside.’”
“Chris did not see me admiring the jewelry,” continued Curran, who maintains that she was “simply looking” at the diamonds. “It was his friends who originally said ‘Get away’... But then, Chris pulled out his gun and said ‘Get the f**k out’... like, pointing that way and pointing it in my face and saying, ‘So sick of all you people, I am going to blow your head off.’ I don't really remember, but he was threatening me with the gun in my face.”
As far as pressing charges against the singer, Curran says she is “still debating,” but added of Brown, “I just hope he gets whatever he deserves.”
On Wednesday morning, the New York Police Department confirmed to ET that Curran is wanted for grand larceny after she and a friend allegedly got into a dispute with a 26-year-old female acquaintance at the Plaza hotel in October 2013. Authorities day the friend took the woman's Michael Kors wallet, and Curran left with her.
Kourtney Kardashian has a body that just won't quit.
The 37-year-old reality star looks incredible on the cover of Cosmopolitan's October issue, giving a sexy pose in a lace-up white bodysuit.
PICS: Hollywood's Hottest Bikini Bods
The mother of three serves up all kinds of body goals in the accompanying photoshoot, flaunting her enviable abs.
No topic is off limits in the magazine interview, including her complicated relationship with her ex -- and the father of her three children -- 33-year-old Scott Disick. Kourtney appears to have made peace that the pair isn't together anymore following their breakup last July after nine years together, but leaves the door open for the future.
"The idea of having my family together is amazing, but it's not the way things ended up," she acknowledges. "They may end up there. I'm not sure. To me, it's in God's hands. If it's meant to be, then things will line up."
"We definitely tried for a long time," she adds. "But relationships are exhausting! Being able to focus on the kids and me right now is good. We say to each other all the time, 'I'm the coolest ex-girlfriend/baby mama you could ever ask for!'"
However, she's unsure about how either of them will react if one gets a new significant other.
"That's what I don't know," she admits. "We're so not there yet."
Of course, their children always come first. Kourtney -- who says she could actually see herself with six kids -- admits 6-year-old Mason, 4-year-old Penelope, and 1-year-old Reign can't watch Keeping Up With the Kardashians because some of the content is "not appropriate."
"They've seen some of it, but no," she says when asked if her kids watch the E! reality show that made the family famous. "I was in the shower, he [Mason] woke up, and it happened to be on. He was like, 'Who is Blac Chyna? And Kiki [Kim] showed Larsa [Pippen] her vagina!' I was like, this is why they don't watch the show. Some of the content is just not appropriate."
Still, the eldest Kardashian child will always have her family's back. Kourtney touches on her sister Kim's decision to post explosive Snapchats of husband Kanye West calling Taylor Swift about his controversial song "Famous" last month, and not surprisingly, she backs her up 100 percent.
"It's her husband, and he's family," she explains. "The truth is the truth, so why not let it be known?"
In last week's episode of KUWTK, Kourtney was hesitant to attend Scott's 33rd birthday party in Vegas because she didn't want him to get the wrong idea.
"But I think hanging out with Scott without the kids... Scott can just take any little thing and run with it and think that like we're getting back together tomorrow," she said.
"Right now I can't even wrap my head around that idea," she added about the possibility of rekindling their romance. "There's so much work that would be involved and I'm so not even there yet."
Watch below:
As Arrow heads into its fifth season, the superhero drama is taking aim at the past. The renewed focus on what’s come before is appropriate for The CW’s long-running series, as it will reach the landmark 100th episode, a feat rarely met today.

“It’s nostalgic, going back to our roots in season one and really revisiting what everyone loved about that first season,” she later added.
It’s not just those involved with Arrow behind the scenes who are taking inspiration from the show’s history. Oliver Queen, who was introduced as a murderous vigilante, will be taking stock at a life led and what his future may hold. “He’s looking back at his own past and his own legacy,” Mericle said.

That’s where the new recruits come into play. The newly-elected mayor of Star City will find himself taking on a new “team” of sorts -- including Wild Dog, a faux Canary and even Curtis Holt -- while the original Team Arrow remains disbanded for the time being.
“They don’t know what they’re doing -- and Oliver knows that. Truth be told, I’m not sure how excited Oliver is taking on anybody,” Mericle said of the new vigilantes-in-training. “In a season where we’re talking about his past, he’s fine to be out there on his own. He starts to think about his future and training them and what the legacy is [that] he wants to leave for his city. That’s really where he’s coming from.”
Season five also marks the final year of Oliver’s island flashbacks, closing the loop on a years-long journey that fans have embarked on since the pilot in 2012. The anticipated flashbacks will focus primarily on Oliver’s time in Russia as he rises through the ranks of one of the country’s most dangerous gangs, the Bratva.

Dolph Lundgren, who plays the Russian big bad Kovar (mentioned at the end of season four), will give Oliver and star Stephen Amell a run for his money. “Stephen’s excited to take him on,” Mericle said with a smile. “He’s a force of a nature, and Stephen -- and Oliver -- will have to take that on and figure out how to conquer [him].”
Oliver’s time in Russia will directly parallel what he’ll be going through in present-day Star City, and unfortunately for fans of the Oliver and Felicity pairing, things may not be back on track right away.

“Felicity is still dealing with -- she directed a missile at 20,000 people and they died,” she continued. “This is the first time she’s coming face to face with the reality of ‘Oh my god, I’m responsible for the deaths of [all these] people. For where they both are character-wise, the relationship is not at the top of their priority list right now.”
If the writers have a plan for Oliver and Felicity in the romantic sense, Mericle isn’t dropping any hints -- for now.
“The relationship, much to the chagrin to the Laurel fans, was borne out of that symbiotic relationship between the writers, what we were seeing on the dailies and the actors. We’re going to stay consistent on that,” she said. “We’re going to continue to see where these characters lead us. So it could go where the Olicity fans want… or not.”
Arrow returns Oct. 5 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on The CW.
Rob Kardashian is opening up about his relationship with Blac Chyna in his most in-depth interview in years.
The 29-year-old reality star gushes about his pregnant fiancee, and admits he was going through his "darkest times" before finding love again. Rob had sparked concerns among fans prior to his return to the spotlight, when he chose not to appear on Keeping Up With the Kardashians, and skipped out on family events -- like sister Kim Kardashian's May 2014 wedding to Kanye West -- after gaining a noticeable amount of weight. His famous family also openly discussed what they described as his "depression."
"She got me through my darkest times," Rob now tells People about 28-year-old Chyna. "I wasn't happy in my own skin. I missed out on so many things."
Although Rob's romance with Chyna came as a shock to fans -- especially given her ties to the Kardashian family, specifically, that she's the mother of Tyga's 3-year-old son King Cairo, and the rapper's now dating Rob's younger sister, Kylie Jenner -- Rob says he's actually had feelings for her for a while now.
"I've been friends with Chyna for a long time," he shares. "From the moment we met, I knew I wanted to be more than friends. She was someone I reached out to for advice. She would cook for me and we'd just talk. She's surrounded me with a lot of positivity."
Most importantly, she also gives him confidence.
"Chyna definitely motivates me," Rob acknowledges. "Being with her got me over the insecurity of being out in public."
"We just want to live our lives the way we want to," he adds. "There were definitely dark days for me, and I'm still not fully happy looking at myself in the mirror. But I'm working towards that. And I'm happy."
As for Chyna, she says she loves Rob just the way he is.
"I saw Rob was willing to better himself," the model, who's been cooking healthy meals for him and motivating him to exercise, tells the mag. "I had never wanted to be tough. I never wanted to change him."
The Kardashian family has definitely given Chyna credit for getting their once reclusive brother out of his shell. In a May episode of KUWTK, Kim praises Chyna for Rob's turnaround.
"She gave him confidence, more power to her," Kim notes. "Even if there's been some drama. If this is what it takes, then I don't care who he's dating. I'm so happy that he's just feeling better about himself."
However, in a new KUWTK clip from this Sunday's episode, Khloe Kardashian -- the sister who's the closest to Rob -- worries that her brother will "go into hiding again" after he and Chyna got into an argument.
"I know when my brother hurts how badly he does hurt," Khloe says. "The more they're fighting and the longer things are bothering him, the more depressed he gets. He'll go into hiding again, go missing. I don't want Rob to live that life anymore."
But earlier this month, a source close to Rob told ET that he was "just going through one of his mood swings, which is common for him," when he deleted all of his Instagram pics with Chyna from his account, but was still committed to filming the couple's new reality show, Rob & Chyna.
"He goes through his dark periods," the source added. "He gets depressed and doesn't want to really do anything, doesn't leave the house. It got better for a bit when he first started dating Chyna, but he's in a rut now. He'll snap out of it."
Watch below:
Accusations will fly during Bravo’s dramatic, three-part Real Housewives of New York season eight reunion! It premieres Wednesday, Aug. 31 and in ET’s explosive sneak peek below, Luann de Lesseps is seen accusing Bethenny Frankel of being a mistress. “The real hypocrite in this room is Bethenny,” de Lesseps says. “You’re going out with a married man!”
“He’s separated!” Ramona Singer yells back in Frankel’s defense. The two are referring to Frankel’s boyfriend, LawCash CEO Dennis Shields. Per Frankel’s tweets, Shields is separated from his wife, whom the Skinnygirl mogul went to high school with. (Which is almost as strange as de Lesseps’ fiancé, Tom D’Agostino, Jr., dating Singer and Sonja Morgan before her.)
EXCLUSIVE: Luann de Lesseps Reveals Why She Forgave Her Fiance After He Cheated 
But de Lesseps won’t be deterred. “[Bethenny] was going out with him for a while while he was still married, living at home,” she says. “Everybody knows it! … This has been going on for a long time. So as much as you want to say that he’s separated, you’re separated -- that is a lie. … That’s not how it started!”
“Yes, it absolutely is,” Frankel replies. De Lesseps keeps going with the allegations, telling Frankel, “I have other people that know you’ve slept with married men.”
EXCLUSIVE: Ramona Singer Promises a ‘Bullfight’ and an ‘Off the Rails’ Bethenny Frankel at ‘RHONY’ Reunion 
Frankel and de Lesseps wound up in a screaming match earlier in the season while on a weekend getaway at Dorinda Medley’s Berkshires home. “You are a hypocrite,” Frankel told de Lesseps during the episode. “You f**k everyone, and you pretend you don't! … You are a slut and a liar and a hypocrite and a snake."
And things didn’t end well between the two this season. In season eight’s final episodes, Frankel showed de Lesseps a photo of D’Agostino, Jr. kissing another woman just days after their engagement. During the finale, de Lesseps told Frankel to stay out of her business.
The Real Housewives of New York Season 8 Reunion, Part I premieres Wednesday, Aug. 31 on Bravo.
As she continues to battle Lyme disease, Yolanda Hadid has lost a dear friend to another horrific illness. Late Tuesday, Hadid, 52, posted a throwback photo with her friend, Ellie O’Connell, to Instagram.
“R.I.P and fly with the Angels my love @ellieod Thank you for 16 great years and showing me the meaning of true and loyal friendship until your last breath,” she captioned the photo of the pair in the woods. “You are my hero and will live in my heart forever...... #ALSWarrior#MyBestFriend.”
Prior to her friend’s death, Hadid met with O’Connell, who was battling ALS. At the time, her friend was forced to wear a breathing tube.
“Out of suffering have emerged the strongest souls; I love you my beautiful angel @ellieod .......You are my hero, my best friend and a shining light to all battling #ALS #Girlfriends#Blessings #Life,” Hadid captioned the picture.
Back in March, Hadid asked her fans to help fund O’Connell’s treatment. The donations reached $77,400 of the group’s $150,000 goal.
MORE: Yolanda Foster Says She Felt Blindsided By David Foster Divorce, Doesn't Regret Signing Prenup
“TBT Happy times before the ALS tragedy took over my sweet Ellie, my Hero and my Best Friend,” Hadid wrote. “Please help me raise funds for her care. Donations small/big are appreciated or just your WORDS of KINDNESS, support and encouragement will make each day a better one for her.  #ALS  #Friends911 #TheFightForLife  @ellieod  #PeopleUnite.”
Hadid herself is still battling Lyme disease. Last week she posted a photo from her hospital bed, writing, “I am seeking, I am striving and I am in it to win it with all of my heart… #LymeDiseaseAwareness #TvamSurgery #LastChapter #SearchingForACure #RemissionInSight.”
Chris Harrison believes this could be the "most dramatic season ever" of The Bachelor.
In a somewhat surprising turn of events, it was revealed on Tuesday that Nick Viall would be the next Bachelor, and the choice has been met with some mixed reviews. Harrison, however, told Good Morning America on Wednesday that he stands by this decision.
PHOTOS: The Bachelor and The Bachelorette Romance Check! Which Couples Are Still Together?
Viall, 35, was a contestant on Andi Dorman and Kaitlyn Bristowe's season of The Bachelorette, and recently appeared on Bachelor in Paradise. While he's always been open to finding love on a reality TV show, Viall has always "come up short," as Harrison put it.
"He's the most deserving," the Bachelor host insisted. "He wants to make this work."
Harrison hopes that with Viall having 25 to 30 women vie for his affection will get him better results than when he's been one of many men trying to fall in love with one woman. "Being 'the guy' will definitely help," he added. "It will help his odds."
MORE: 6 Reasons Why Nick Viall is the Perfect Choice for the New Bachelor
While some fans still aren't convinced that Viall should be the next Bachelor, Harrison thinks the controversy just "shows how much people love and care about the show."
We've been loving Viall on BIP this season -- find out why in our recap below! 
As the world mourns the loss of famed actor Gene Wilder, the comedy legend’s longtime director and collaborator, Mel Brooks, took a moment to honor his late friend on Tuesday night.
Brooks, 90, appeared on The Tonight Show where he opened up about his struggle with losing Wilder.
“He was sick, and I knew it and I expected it. I expected he would go,” he told host Jimmy Fallon. “But I don’t know, when it happens it’s still tremendous. It’s a big shock, you know. I’m still reeling from no more Gene and I can’t call him. He was such a wonderful part of my life.”
The pair worked together on many classic films like Blazing Saddles, The Producers, and Young Frankenstein, two of which earned Wilder Oscar nominations.
“We became very good friends,” Brooks said.
The New York native recalled his long struggle to get funding for his 1967 hit, The Producers, saying that Wilder never believed he’d be able to make the dream a reality. When Brooks finally got the good news, he delivered it to his friend who was backstage while performing in a play.
“He was taking off his makeup in his dressing room, and I took the script and I said, ‘Gene, we got the money, we’re going to make the movie. You are Leo Bloom.’ He burst into tears and held his face and cried and then I hugged him. It was a wonderful moment,” the Oscar winner recalled.
He also noted that Wilder came up for the idea for Young Frankenstein while the pair were working on the 1974 film Blazing Saddles.
“He said, ‘I had an idea. What if the grandson of Victor Frankenstein was a serious, brilliant surgeon and wanted nothing to do with the people that were responsible for making the monster and reanimating it? And he’s fighting it, but it’s in his blood,’” Brooks said. “I said, ‘That’s a terrific idea. You want to write it with me?’”
The pair wrote the script and earned an Oscar nomination for the screenplay.
Wilder passed away on Monday at the age of 83 after suffering complications from Alzheimer’s disease.
For more on Wilder’s life and greatest loves, watch the video below!
Miranda Kerr was baffled to learn that her ex-husband, Orlando Bloom, had gone paddle boarding naked at a public beach while on vacation in Italy with his current girlfriend, Katy Perry.
The 33-year-old supermodel revealed on KIIS FM's Kyle and Jackie O on Tuesday that the 39-year-old actor warned her that nude photos of him would soon be hitting the web. "Oh my God -- he texted me and he was like, 'Um, I'm really embarrassed. Some photos are coming out. Just thought I should let you know,'" she recalled.
Kerr responded to Bloom with a question many fans asked upon seeing the images. "And I was like, 'Hmm... right, what were you thinking? Seriously, what were you thinking?'" she shared.
The former couple might be the most amicable exes in Hollywood. While Kerr -- who announced her engagement to 26-year-old Snapchat CEO Evan Spiegel last month -- divorced Bloom in 2013, the two are still quite close, geographically. Kerr recently told Harper's Bazaar that she came to find her dream house in Malibu, California, after she was looking for a residence near the Lord of the Rings star so they could raise their 5-year-old son Flynn together.
Kerr has even hung out with Perry, whose appears to be quite serious with Bloom since getting together with him in February.  "Katy and Orlando are the real deal and are totally in love. We've never seen Katy this happy and so smitten," a source previously told ET. "They are head over heels for each other."
Age is just a number if you’re Halle Berry! The 50-year-old actress looked smoking hot at a beach photo shoot on Tuesday, posting a pic to Instagram.
“BTS on my last shoot of the summer,” she captioned the sexy pic of herself in a back cutout bikini.
The Kidnap star’s washboard abs were on full display as she posed with her arms over her head.
The pic seems to come from the same shoot that Berry shared on Instagram in early July.
“When you look at your page and you realize there are now half a million peeps here to hang with you… excited to be creating with you guys. Thank you!!” she captioned the pic of her in the ocean while wearing the same bikini.
Berry rang in her milestone birthday earlier this month with arms wide open – literally.
“With open arms I welcome 50… I’m so blessed to be here!” she captioned a beautiful photo of herself in a white lace cover up with her arms out.
For more of Berry’s best moments, watch the video below!
Ouch! Nick Cannon got served by 13-year-old comedian Lori Mae Hernandez on Tuesday night’s episode of America’s Got Talent. The stand-up star poked fun at the show’s host, saying, “I just outgrew Barbies like Mariah did Nick.”
When ET’s Denny Directo caught up with Cannon after the show, he had nothing but kind words for the contestant.
MORE: Michael Phelps Cheered On By Baby Boomer & Fiancee Nicole Johnson As He Co-Hosts 'America's Got Talent'
“I’m kind of used to that type of humor on my other show, but it was all in fun man. She’s outstanding. She’s hilarious,” he told ET. “When you can show that you don’t take yourself so seriously, I think that’s what people love and embrace. I was like, ‘Take as many shots at me as you want.’”
But does he give his ex, Mariah Carey, a heads up when her name is mentioned publicly in relation to his?
“Sometimes you do [have to give her a heads up], man, and she thinks I’m the one that put people up to that stuff. I get myself in enough trouble!” he said. “But she has fun with it too. She knows that, you know, there’s no hard feelings and it’s all love so when people joke and I make jokes, it’s just all in jest.”
Carey and Cannon separated in August 2015, and she has since moved on with fiancé James Packer. Cannon is also moving forward, focusing on his latest role, as a college freshman at Howard University. But will the Drumline star be hitting up any frat parties?
“I’m gonna try to limit the extracurricular activities,” he told ET. “I’ve got companies and stuff I gotta run, but I’m definitely gonna partake. I gotta get the full experience.”
For more on Cannon’s college life, watch the video below!
After accusing Chris Brown of threatening her with a gun, leading to his arrest on charges of assault with a deadly weapon, Baylee Curran is opening up to ET about her account of what happened at the singer’s Tarzana, California home late Monday night.
The former Miss California contestant tells ET’s Jen Peros that she went to Brown’s house on Monday night to talk to him about potentially being cast in his next music video. Curran says the two had met before, but she wanted to “refresh his memory.” She explains that the night was “more casual than expected." She added that she and some friends were “talking a little business" when things took a turn.
“I went into the backyard and then, when I came back into the house, there was a new male in the home and he was showcasing these diamond bracelets and watches and diamond necklaces,” Curran explains. “At that point, Chris' friend -- and I don't know who he was to Chris -- saw me looking at them and got a little wary, I guess? Sort of cursing and screaming at me and calling me names saying ‘Get the f**k away from the diamonds. Get the f**k back outside.’”
“Chris did not see me admiring the jewelry,” continues Curran, who maintains that she was “simply looking” at the diamonds. “It was his friends who originally said ‘Get away’... But then, Chris pulled out his gun and said ‘Get the f**k out’... like, pointing that way and pointing it in my face and saying, ‘So sick of all you people, I am going to blow your head off.’ I don't really remember, but he was threatening me with the gun in my face.”
Curran says that she and her friends attempted to leave, but were stopped by some of Brown’s friends, who asked her to sign a nondisclosure agreement before she could get her cell phone back.
“I am like, 'I don't think so, I am not signing anything.' So I then took the phone from him and made a run for it,” Curran recalls. “[Brown's] two friends were following me down the driveway as I am like, running down the driveway and then I turn left on the street. They continued to follow me on foot, and then I run faster so that I can kind of lose them.”
Brown has maintained his innocence, posting several Instagram videos on Tuesday where he claimed to be asleep when the police arrived at his house. He was arrested on Tuesday afternoon on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon after the LAPD served a search warrant for his house and was booked and released Tuesday night after posting $250,000 in bail.
“Thanks to everyone for their support and well wishes. Chris is out and well,” tweeted Brown’s lawyer, Mark Geragos, late Tuesday. “The allegations against him are demonstrably false #TeamBreezy.”
Curran says that she was still “in shock” from the events of the evening but that she felt “validated” by Brown’s arrest.
“I'm scared for my life. I'm terrified,” she explains when asked why she filed a police report. “I hope they can provide protection… I think the world kind of needs to know that this stuff does happen. A lot of violence is going on in the world right now and I think that we all kind of need to wake up to it and reunite and just share the love, I guess.”
As far as pressing charges against the singer, Curran says she is “still debating,” but added of Brown, “I just hope he gets whatever he deserves.”
Rob Kardashian is thrilled for his pregnant fiancée, Blac Chyna! The 29-year-old reality star took to Instagram on Tuesday to praise his future wife’s recent maternity photo shoots for Paper and Elle magazines, posting several pics from the glossies.
“Proud of You @blacchyna,” Kardashian captioned a photo of the model’s nude Paper cover.
He also posted a black and white photo of her baby bump from Elle, simply writing, “LOVE YOUUU!!”
The Rob & Chyna star also had some choice words for critics of his baby mama, writing, “Proud of u mama @blacchyna!! !! !! AND I LOVEEEE how mad some of you are. So many miserable people.”
Rob’s older sister, Kim Kardashian, also posed nude for Paper magazine in November 2014. And though Rob’s relationship with his famous family can be strained at times, Rob and Chyna are stronger than ever.
“Around Rob, I’m always able to speak my mind and speak freely and not care,” she told Elle. “I can do the craziest stuff or say the craziest stuff, and he doesn’t judge me. Like if my stomach hurts, I don’t have to pretend. I can go straight to the bathroom. It’s those little things that really make a big difference.”
In a sneak peek for the upcoming episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Rob’s sisters Khloe and Kim talk with their mom, Kris Jenner, about a fight between the controversial couple.
"Is he ever gonna see his kid though, or is she gonna take it?" Kim asks in the clip.
Fortunately, the pair worked it out and recently appeared in a Facebook Live video together.
Chris Brown was booked and released on a felony charge of assault with a deadly weapon on Tuesday, after former Miss California contestant Baylee Curran claimed the singer threatened her with a gun at his home in Tarzana, California on Monday night.
Brown was arrested just before 1 p.m. local time on Tuesday after police procured a search warrant for his home. He was interview at the LAPD Robbery Homicide Division before being booked at the Metropolitan Detention Center and released just after 11 p.m.  after posting $250,000 bail.
“Thanks to everyone for their support and well wishes. Chris is out and well,” Brown’s lawyer, Mark Geragos, tweeted. “The allegations against him are demonstrably false #TeamBreezy.”
Brown, who claims he was asleep while the alleged incident happened, took to Instagram before his arrest on Tuesday to reject the woman's claims and deny any wrongdoing in a series of videos.
"So, I'm asleep half the damn night, I just wake up, all these mother**king helicopter choppers are around," he says in the first video. "The police out there, at the gate. Come on, what the f**k else do y'all want from me, bro? I stay out of the way, take care of my daughter. Do work."
"I'm way too tired to be dealing with this bulls**t," he continues. "Every three months y'all come up with something, bro. What is it? What's gonna be next? … I'm innocent, f**k everybody. I'm tired of hearing this s**t."
Jacqueline Laurita is officially a grandmother! The Real Housewives of New Jersey star shared live updates with her fans on Twitter as her daughter, Ashlee Holmes, welcomed her first child, a baby boy.
“Oh my! @ashleeholmes water broke!! We are so excited!” she first tweeted on Monday.
MORE: 'Real Housewives of New Jersey' Star Jacqueline Laurita's Daughter Ashlee Holmes Is Pregnant!
After that came a lengthy labor process. Laurita updated fans mid-day on Tuesday, writing, “She’s ready to push !!!!!”
Finally, Laurita’s first grandson was born and she introduced him with a precious photo.
“Welcome Cameron Hendrix Malleo Born 5:20pm 8lbs 4oz 20inches 8/30/2016,” she captioned the photo of the little boy in his father’s arms.
Holmes revealed even more about her labor process, tweeting, “23 hours of labor followed by 1 hour and a half of pushing… but it was worth it. My lil man is finally here.”
She also shared another pic of her son, writing, “We are so in love with you.”
MORE: Jacqueline Laurita’s Daughter Ashlee Holmes Gets Engaged, RHONJ Star Calls Herself a ‘#Smotherinlaw’
Holmes’ fiancé, Peter Malleo, posted a photo with his newborn, writing, “Today was the best day of my life. Meet my son Cameron Hendrix.”
The couple got engaged in February and shortly after announced they were expecting. At the time, Holmes’ reality star mother declared, “That’s right! I’m going to be a #Glamma!”
Gabby Douglas had to miss presenting at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday night with the rest of her Final Five gang due to an injury -- but the gymnast has updated fans to let them know she's now on the road to recovery.
"Hey guys! Just wanted to let you know that I'm doing OK!" the Olympic gymnast wrote in a post on Twitter on Tuesday evening.
"I had a complication from a prior injury that caused a cyst to grow on a bone in my mouth," she continued. "Got it removed and feeling much better now! Thanks for all your concerns and prayers and HUGE thank you to the doctors that have taken care of me these last four days! #ontheroadtorecovery #butIstillgottagetthesewisdomteethout."
The 20-year-old also posted a picture of herself in the dentist's chair with the tweet.
Douglas had been scheduled to present at the VMAs on Sunday along with the other members of the U.S. women's gymnastics team: Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Madison Kocian, and Laurie Hernandez, but had to pull out shortly beforehand due to the cyst.
"Out of hospital & resting comfortably! #FinalFive sad I can't be with u 2 present tonite [sic]," she posted in a tweet on Sunday before the VMAs, along with a picture of herself tucked up in bed.
ET spoke with Douglas' teammates on the VMAs white carpet, where Hernandez explained the growth wasn't a major injury. "It's a little bit swollen, but we hope she can get better soon because we wish she could be here with us," she said.
Tuesday night on ABC’s After Paradise, Nick Viall was announced as the new Bachelor. It was a surprise move; the standard protocol is that a finalist from the previous season of The Bachelorette takes the title. Luke Pell and Chase McNary from JoJo Fletcher’s season had even confirmed they were in talks. But here’s why Nick is exactly what Bachelor Nation needs!
1.	He is 35 years old.
Yes, Ben Higgins was an amazing Bachelor and one of the nicest guys ever (Seriously. We’ve met him multiple times. He’s just nice.), but Ben was only 26 when he became the Bachelor, making him the youngest ever in the franchise’s 20-season history. As Bachelor No. 21, Viall will bring back a more experienced vibe to the show, supplying relationship wisdom that, frankly, only comes with time … and failure. (Also – Nick turns 36 on Sept. 29 – Happy early birthday!)
2.	America loves a comeback story.
Like we said, the guy has had his failures. Viall was known as a bit of a villain after Andi Dorfman’s season of The Bachelorette; his behavior on After the Final Rose, when he revealed he and Dorfman had slept together in their fantasy suites, is an infamous moment in franchise history. Then, on Kaitlyn Bristowe’s season, he joined the show late and went head-to-head with Shawn Booth. But this season on Bachelor in Paradise, Viall has redeemed himself as a mature, funny, grounded guy. Even in the face of drama with Josh Murray, he’s kept his cool, largely serving as an onlooker to all the antics.
EXCLUSIVE: Nick Viall on His 'Bachelor in Paradise'' Rival, Josh Murray
3.	He’s really, really good-looking. 
‘Nuff said:
4.	He’s good on camera.
At the end of the day, this isn’t just about love – The Bachelor is a TV show. The person who serves as Bachelor or Bachelorette has to keep things moving and make the show fun to watch. After three seasons of reality TV, Nick definitely has on-camera experience.
5.	He owns his past.
Viall might have had an up-and-down history in Bachelor Nation, but he makes no excuses. In fact, he’s admitted several times on Paradise that some of the not-so-great stuff ex Andi Dorfman wrote about him in her tell-all book is true (Josh Murray, on the other hand, has called it a work of “fiction.”)
6.	He’s bringing back meaning to the word “journey.”
If we drank every time someone said “journey” on an episode of The Bachelor, we’d be totally gone every Monday night. The word is used across the Bachelor Nation franchises -- so much so that it often seems an empty, canned response at this point – a word that makes viewers’ eyes glaze over until the real drama starts. But Viall has actually been on a journey to find love. With two seasons of The Bachelorette and one of Bachelor in Paradise under his belt, he’s clearly had a hard time tracking down “the one,” and viewers have seen his struggle firsthand. We feel genuinely connected to him, and we’re cheering him on!
Do you think Nick was the right choice for the Bachelor? Let me know on Twitter @laurenzima, and check out this week's BIP recap (including many amazing moments from Nick) in the video below!
Looks like Mel B's daughter, Madison Belafonte, has got talent -- shoulder massage talent!
The 4-year-old gave the America's Got Talent judge a treat with an adorable shoulder massage in a short video posted to Instagram on Sunday.
"She said 'mummy you need a shoulder massage' and this is what I got!!! My baby Madi Bears my [heart emoji]," the 41-year-old singer wrote.
Maybe little Madison was inspired by J. Lo's Instagram. In May, the Shades of Blue actress posted a similar pic, showing her receiving a head massage from her 8-year-old son, Max, before one of her Las Vegas residency performances.
"My little man taking care of mama before the show... #headmassage #allIhave #allforthem #jlovegas #pricelessmoment #MaximilianMuniz #mamasboy #LOVE!," she captioned the sweet snap.
PHOTOS: Stars Share Pics of Their Cute Kids
Meanwhile, the artist formerly known as Scary Spice has been keeping busy with her AGT judging duties and a Spice Girls reunion in the works. Watch below to see how she juggles it all.
How do we get an invite to this dinner party?
Our favorite cool aunt Lori Loughlin shared a snap from a recent get-together at her house, but it’s her surprise guest we can’t get over.
"Random night when your husband tells you he’s having a few friends over and @m_phelps00 walks in your house," Loughlin captioned a pic of herself with the decorated Olympian.
Judging by Phelps' outfit, the 31-year-old swimmer paid Loughlin a visit the same day he co-hosted an episode of America's Got Talent.
Phelps' fiancée, Nicole Johnson, and baby son, Boomer, sat in the AGT audience cheering him on, just like they did at the Olympics. 
"I had our first child in the stands, watching the race," he shared with host Nick Cannon during the episode, as cameras panned to Johnson and baby Boomer in the crowd. "He wasn't always awake, but it's a completely different experience being able to look up and see your baby boy up there after a race."
We just can’t get enough of Phelps' son, and can’t help but wonder if the little guy also made an appearance at Loughlin's soiree.
For more on Boomer's arrival, watch the video below.
Bachelor Nation, we have a new leading man, and it was a big surprise!
After weeks of waiting, the new Bachelor was announced on the Bachelor in Paradise post-show, After Paradise, Tuesday night. ET had confirmed both Luke Pell and Chase McNary were in talks to take on the title, but our new Bachelor is ...
Nick Viall! 

6 Reasons Why Nick Viall is the Perfect Choice for 'The Bachelor'
We've been big Nick fans all season on BIP -- check out his best moments from this week's episode in our video below!
"I had an interesting journey throughout the process," Viall said Tuesday night of his life in Bachelor Nation. "It hasn't worked out so far. ... Hopefully this time around, maybe things will end up on a more positive note. ... It's going to be a lot of fun and I'm very nervous but I can't be more excited about the possibility of it actually all work out!" 
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Ben Higgins & Lauren Bushnell's Life in Denver and Why They'll Be a 'Bachelor' Couple that Makes It
Being the Bachelor certainly worked out for last season’s star, Ben Higgins, who is currently planning his wedding with fiancee Lauren Bushnell. Check out the video below for more on their life together.
Happy birthday to Cameron Diaz!
The Charlie's Angels star turned 44 on Tuesday, and while we can't get enough of the actress, it's the sweet birthday message her husband Benji Madden shared that we're obsessing over!
The Good Charlotte rocker took to Instagram on Saturday to wish his lady love a happy birthday, and it might just be the cutest thing we’ve ever seen from the usually very private couple.
"Happy Birthday to my beautiful Wife😍, You're my best friend and I'm so thankful for you, sometimes I just want to tell the world❤❤❤," he wrote, alongside a pic of himself and Diaz at LACMA's Rain Room. "Generous, Kind, Compassionate, Selfless, Humble, Thoughtful, Patient and Loyal. Just a few of the qualities I would use to describe who you are, consistently, everyday."
"Thanks for being you, I'm a lucky guy❤," he concluded the post. "Here's to many more🙏❤ I love you❤❤❤@camerondiaz 🎂🎈🎉😘."
Moments before his adorable essay, Madden shared another birthday message.
"HBD baby it's You&Me forever ❤❤❤ @camerondiaz 😘😘😘," he captioned a silly pic of Kristen Wiig and Will Forte in MacGruber.
Just weeks earlier, it was Diaz who couldn't stop gushing about her husband.
"One of my favorite things about being married, is how much pride I take in my husband @benjaminmadden," she wrote on Instagram, along with a video of Madden performing. "He makes me proud everyday.. One day it might be how generous and giving, another how gentle and thoughtful. Or when he is fiercely protective of the people he love and cares about… And everyday single day I am so incredibly proud of his integrity as a human being."
Diaz and Madden, 37, tied the knot in an intimate ceremony in January 2015, after eight months of dating. While their courtship was short, Diaz couldn't be happier with married life. 
"Someone asked me, 'What's your favorite thing about being married?' And I said, 'I just learn so much about myself. I didn't know these things. I would have never known them if I didn't have my husband to help me,'" the Other Woman star said during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show in May.
"I'm just so grateful for it because I couldn't do it without my husband, and I couldn't do it with anybody else except him," she added.
See more of what Diaz had to say about life as a newlywed in the video below.
Drake and Rihanna are finally official!
The "One Dance" rapper may have missed his own award, but Drake still showed up at the proverbial airport (aka the 2016 MTV VMAs) rom-com style to gush over Rihanna before declaring his longtime love for the ANTI singer and presenting her with the Video Vanguard Award.
From there, faster than you can say DriRi, we fell head OVO heels shipping the two artists, especially after Drake, 29, followed up the awards show moment with this super couple-ish photo of them kissing on Instagram.
EXCLUSIVE: Rihanna and Drake Are Officially 'Dating,' Decided to 'Stop Hiding it From Everyone'
Read on to take a walk back through Rihanna and Drake's romance, from the "Pon de Replay" video, to their many tantalizing collaborations, to their make-our-hearts-go-bum-bum-be-dum moment at the 2016 VMAs.
2005: 'Pon de Replay'
"The first time I met Robyn Fenty was in 2005," Drake recalled at the 2016 VMAs. Rihanna's very first music video for "Pon de Replay" was shot in the rapper's native Toronto. "I was introduced to her as the kid who played background music at the restaurant as people ate their dinner."
During this time, Drake was starring on the Canadian teen drama, Degrassi, but sadly had yet to catch Rihanna's eye!
In an interview with KidzWorld after the video premiered, 17-year-old Rihanna shared that she didn't have any celeb crushes, but that she'd "love to meet Kanye West" someday. (Just a reminder that while 2005 has some similarities to today, it was basically a completely different world.)
MTV VMAs: Rihanna Delivers Hit After Hit, Drake Professes His Undying Love For Her
May - November 2009: Those Lucky Strike Nights...
Months after the fallout that led to the end of her relationship with Chris Brown, PageSix reported that Rihanna had been spotted at Lucky Strike bowling alley in NYC "drinking whiskey and apple juice and making out" with the TV actor, who by then had a burgeoning rap career, signing to Lil Wayne's Young Money Entertainment record label.
"Who could've predicted Lucky Strike would have you stuck with me," Drake later rapped on the song "Fireworks." "What happened between us that night it always seems to trouble me, now all of a sudden these gossip rags wanna cover me."
"But I was curious and I’ll never forget it baby," he added in the song. "What an experience."
Tragically, Drake's fawning -- according to his 2016 MTV Music Awards speech, this is the age he fell in love with Rihanna -- may have been to this point unrequited.
"I don't even have his number," Rihanna said in a Nov. 2009 interview. "I need somebody that's hot... and older."
"Me and Drake, we're friends," she continued.
Eek. Sorry, Aubrey! Nonetheless, this was far from the last time the two saw each other.
June 2010: Drake Feels Played
Like all love stories, this one has its share of sour notes.
Drake said that Rihanna made him feel "like a pawn" in a New York Times interview after a song he wrote for Rihanna never was released.
"You know what she was doing to me? She was doing exactly what I’ve done to so many women throughout my life, which is show them quality time, then disappear," the rapper said. "I was like, wow, this feels terrible."
Nov. 2010: "What's My Name"
Well, that was fast! Despite the shade earlier in the year, Rihanna and Drake collaborated on her song "What's My Name," in 2010, and Drake even appeared in the video.
Clearly, he couldn't stay mad!
Feb. 2011: Taking the Stage
At the 2011 GRAMMY Awards, RiRi and Drake took the stage together to perform "What's My Name" in one of what would become many sexy live duets.
Rihanna literally set the stage on fire for the performance, and the chemistry between the two was already so, very palpable.
April 2011: Rihanna Is Very, Very Single
It seemed the show wasn't a sign of anything romantic between the pair just yet.
"I'm not dating," RiRi said during an interview with Rolling Stone. "I'm not sexing, I'm not even sexting. It's on complete nil."
And at that point, things seemed to be cooling down...
Oct 2011: Drake Admits He Was Hurt
A few months later, Drake opened up about feeling burned by Rihanna the year before.
"At the time it hurt, but she didn't mean to. I'll never put that on her," he told Elle. "I was hurt because I started to slowly realize what it was. I guess I thought it was more."
"That was the first girl with any fame that paid me any mind," he added. "You spend days reading about this person in the magazines. All of a sudden you have this number-one song and you're at some birthday party and there she is. And you're just some naive kid from Toronto staying in some sh**ty-ass hotel who got invited to this party on a whim. That's just how it happened."
April 2012: "Take Care"
Another amazing collaboration!
"I've asked about you and they told me things, but my mind didn't change and I still feel the same," Drake sings on the heartbreaking track. "You don't say you love me to your friends when they ask you, even though we both know that you do."
June 2012: Drake v. Chris Brown
Drake (and then-friend Meek Mill) reportedly had an altercation with Rihanna's ex at a New York nightclub.
Brown shared a photo of a bloody gash on his chin after the incident, though there are conflicting reports as to who caused it.
Sept. 2012: Rihanna and Chris Brown Make Up
The former couple was caught on camera kissing backstage at the MTV awards show. They would continue to see each other until May of the following year.
June 2013: Drake Opens Up
Commenting on the Brown altercation a year later, Drake told GQ, "Two rappers fighting over the woman. He's not even a rapper, but still, it's the last way you want your name out there. It distracts from the music. But he's made me the enemy, and that's the way it's gonna stay, I guess."
"I don't want my name to be synonymous with that guy's name," he added. "I wish we could sit down, just like you and me are right now, and talk it out man-to-man. But that's not going to happen. I'm not confrontational, but if someone challenges, I'm not going to back down."
The rapper also admitted that he worried about the whole situation, saying, "If I think about it too much, I feel it wrapping around my foot, like I get a feeling it could end really badly."
Sept. 2013: "We Had Our Moment"
Drake appeared to be ready to put Rihanna behind him when asked about the relationship on The Ellen DeGeneres Show.
"Great girl, we had our moment," he shared. "I'll always support and have love for her."
March 2014 - Oct. 2015 On and Off Times...
There were some reports that the couple tried dating beginning in March, followed up by news they'd split up by May.
Then Hollywood Life reported the two hooked up at a studio the following year, but by October, Rihanna said in an interview with Vanity Fair that her last official boyfriend was Brown.
"I will wait forever if I have to ... but that's OK." she told the publication about not settling for love. "You have to be screwed over enough times to know, but now I'm hoping for more than these guys can actually give."
"A very extraordinary gentleman, with a lot of patience, will come along when I least expect it," she shared of her ideal man. "And I don't want it right now. I can't really be everything for someone. This is my reality right now."
Jan. - Feb. 2016: "Work, Work, Work, Work, Work...."
What do you know!
At the beginning of this year, Rihanna dropped her "Work" single, again featuring her longtime collaborator Drake.
And while she told Ellen DeGeneres in February that she still was single, when the video dropped, Drake was there, in what might have been the artists' sultriest pairing to date!
March 2016: This Happens on the ANTI World Tour:
That is all!
April - August 2016: Playing With Us
You've been around for this. This year, Drake and Rihanna have supported each other with multiple live appearances, including a stop in Manchester, England in late June where the rapper called RiRi "the most beautiful, talented, woman I've ever seen."
And while Drake went on the Ellen DeGeneres Show again earlier this month to re-assert his single status, he then took out a billboard congratulating his longtime flame on her Video Vanguard Award.
And then, of course, there's the aforementioned VMA moment and PDA afterward, which pretty much brings us up to speed to when...
PHOTOS: Rihanna's Sexiest, Most Scandalous Shots
Aug 29, 2015: The Long Game Paid Off!
Drake and Rihanna are "definitely a couple," a source close to the "Umbrella" singer told ET on Monday!
"They are fully dating," the source shared "No one really knows how long they have been 'official' -- they just decided to let it become a thing instead of hiding it from everyone. They're happy."
Well, that was quite the saga, and knowing these two -- to borrow a song title from one lovestruck Toronto superstar -- it may not be "Over" yet!
But in the meantime, watch the video below for more on the couple's relationship.
Chris Brown has been arrested on suspicion of assault with a deadly weapon following a police standoff at his Los Angeles home on Tuesday.
In a press conference on Tuesday evening, Lt. Ramirez of the LAPD said that the Robbery Homicide Division served their search warrant and searched Brown's residence. LAPD Officer Tony Im later told ET that Brown was being interviewed at the Robbery Homicide Division, and will then be processed at the Metropolitan Detention Center. 

Im told ET that Brown was being cooperative and could post bail by Tuesday night.
Police responded to a 911 call for help outside a residence at the 5000 block of Corbin Avenue at 3:12 a.m. on Tuesday, where a woman alleged that Brown had threatened her with a gun.
Brown, who claims he was asleep while the alleged incident happened, took to Instagram to reject the woman's claims and deny any wrongdoing in a series of videos.
"So, I'm sleep half the damn night, I just wake up, all these mother**king helicopter choppers are around," he says in the first video. "The police out there, at the gate. Come on, what the f**k else do y'all want from me, bro? I stay out of the way, take care of my daughter. Do work."
"I'm way too tired to be dealing with this bulls**t," he continues. "Every three months y'all come up with  something, bro. What is it? What's gonna be next? … I'm innocent, f**k everybody. I'm tired of hearing this s**t."
Ray J, who left Brown's residence earlier on Tuesday, was stopped and handcuffed by police on his way out. The "Sexy Can I" singer was allowed to leave by police after they checked his ID, but his BMW was seized as evidence.
Ray J later took to Instagram to share his support for Brown.
"Thingz gotta change man! This ain't kool!" he captioned the post. "Much support to @chrisbrownofficial and the whole team! #StayPositive #DontLetTheDevilWin."
"I'm real upset about today. I'm upset at how people can take a false story and blow it up into way more than what it should be. You got just positive people around and you look outside and it's like a war zone for no reason, for what some stranger said about something that don't got nothin' to do with nothin,'" he says in the video. "It's just not right. It shouldn't be like this. I support the homie, Chris, and I support the whole movement."
Emily Blunt may be nervous about stepping into the big boots of Mary Poppins in an upcoming remake, but she's already won over one important person -- Julie Andrews!
While the 33-year-old actress hasn't spoken to Andrews herself, Blunt told Entertainment Weekly that her Mary Poppins Returns director, Rob Marshall, spilled the beans on her casting when he ran into the Academy Award-winning actress recently.
"Rob said he was in the Hamptons and he saw [Andrews], and he said 'It's top secret but Emily Blunt's playing Mary Poppins,'" she recalls. "And she went, 'Oh, wonderful!'"
Andrews, now 80, originated the role of the beloved spoonful of sugar-pushing nanny on film in 1964, and won a Best Actress Oscar for her performance -- so we can see why her blessing would be important.
"I felt like I wanted to cry," Blunt admits. "It was lovely to get her stamp of approval. That took the edge off it, for sure."
The Into the Woods actress also admits she still feels some trepidation at taking on the iconic role. "[Mary Poppins is] so emblematic of people's nostalgia," Blunt says. "It's such an important character in people's childhood."
The film is currently slated for a December 2018 release and will also star Hamilton's Lin-Manuel Miranda.
ET caught up with Blunt’s husband, John Krasinski, earlier this month, where he dished on his wife's singing voice and Poppins prep. Check out this video for more.
Don’t expect another “K” name for the next Kardashian offspring.
Rob Kardashian’s pregnant fiancee, Blac Chyna, stripped down to show off her bare bump for a new photo shoot for Elle.com and dished details on everything from the couple’s baby to her ex, Tyga.
“The baby won’t have a K name. We both agreed,” Chyna says when asked about keeping the Kardashian name trend alive with their little one.
The 28-year-old model, who is starring in her own reality show with Rob, dishes on how comfortable she feels around her beau.
“Around Rob, I’m always able to speak my mind and speak freely and not care,” she explains. “I can do the craziest stuff or say the craziest stuff, and he doesn’t judge me. Like if my stomach hurts, I don’t have to pretend. I can go straight to the bathroom. It’s those little things that really make a big difference.”
Chyna plans to gives viewers of the E! docu-series, Rob & Chyna, a true glimpse of who she really is.
“I wanted to show people my personality, that I’m not just a pretty face or what some people paint me out to be: this bad person, this stripper ho. I want them to see me as a mom, a business-woman, a growing being,” she says.
The mom to 3-year-old King Cairo (her child with Tyga) reminisced during her sit-down with Elle about her first job at McDonald's and how much she got paid when she starred in the rapper’s “Rack City” video back in 2012.
“I should’ve gotten more. He’s kinda cheap,” she half-jokingly says of her $2,500 paycheck.
Tyga, of course, is currently in a relationship with Rob’s younger sister, Kylie Jenner.
As for her gig at Mickey D’s, she says, "Normally you start on fries or burgers, but I was never back there, I guess it was because of my personality.”
This isn’t Chyna’s first bump-revealing photo shoot released this week.
She posed completely nude for the “1,000 Beautiful People,” issue of Paper magazine, which happens to be the same publication her future sister-in law, Kim Kardashian West, bared all for in 2014.
For more from Blac Chyna, watch below:
Comedy legend Gene Wilder, who died on Sunday at 83, was loved by many, but perhaps no one cared for him as much as the women in his life. The actor had a great capacity for love and his endless search for it led him down the aisle four times.
Before fame and stardom, Wilder said "I do" with his first wife, actress and playwright Mary Mercier in 1960. The two appeared in a New York production of Roots, which would mark Wilder's professional debut.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
When Wilder and Mercier divorced in 1965, Wilder soon fell for Mary Joan Schultz and wed her in 1967. When they became a family, Wilder adopted Schultz's daughter Katharine from a previous marriage. But after Wilder and Schultz divorced in 1974, Katharine severed ties with Wilder, according to his book Kiss Me Like a Stranger.
In 2005, Wilder told the New York Daily News that he hoped the book would "explain some things she didn't want to understand."
Wilder took another giant swing at love by marrying his third wife, Gilda Radner, in 1984.The Oscar-nominated actor and the Saturday Night Live star fawned over each other when they sat down with ET in 1986.
"To me it's irresistible -- a funny man," Radner told ET, explaining their attraction.
"More than anything she's always a sucker for a big laugh," Wilder chimed in.
The couple met on the set of their 1982 film, Hanky Panky, and were virtually inseparable.
"She is my teacher, because she tells the truth more than I do," Wilder said.
The funnyman admitted that sometimes the truth hurts, but they were able to express their frustrations with each other in a healthy way.
"I respect her enough to get angry with her and let her have it. Not in order to punish her, but to say what's truly on my heart," Wilder said. "Because if you harbor it, it comes out in another way, but if you say it at the time, it's gone."
Tragically, Wilder lost Radner to ovarian cancer in 1989. He opened up about the loss the following year while promoting his movie, Funny About Love.
"After Gilda died, a lot of emotion was not coming out of me, and I'd come home at night and instead of being exhausted, I felt relieved because I could cry and laugh," Wilder said.  "And I said, 'I am finally healing.'"
Wilder met his fourth wife, Karen Webb, while doing research for his 1989 film, See No Evil, Hear No Evil, and they tied the knot in 1991.
When Wilder introduced ET to Karen in 1995, he couldn't have been more thrilled with their relationship.
"We're married for three years now, three wonderful years, and I'm happier than I have ever been in my life," he said.
The couple looked just as happy last September when they were photographed arm-in-arm at the U.S. Open.
Karen was also by his side when the Hollywood icon died holding hands with his family on Sunday while listening to Ella Fitzgerald's rendition of "Somewhere Over the Rainbow."
Wilder had been battling Alzheimer's for the past three years, with the actor and his family choosing to keep his illness private.
Kate Beckinsale is a proud mama, sharing a sweet photo to Instagram of her daughter Lily Sheen's last first day of school!
The cute snap shows a throwback of Lily on her first ever day of school in a baby blue uniform, side-by-side with Lily now, at 17, looking just like her famous mother.
PHOTO: Kate Beckinsale Hilariously Recreates Birth Photo With Daughter, Ex Michael Sheen
"First first day of school/last first day of school. Love you so much @lily_beckinsale," the Underworld actress wrote.
Lily is Beckinsale's daughter with her ex-boyfriend, Masters of Sex star Michael Sheen. They dated from 1995 until 2003 and have remained good friends. Even Sheen's current girlfriend, Sarah Silverman, is chill with her! 
"He [Sheen] and Kate are like brother and sister," the comedian, who’s been dating Sheen since 2014, said in a 2014 interview. "I love her, she's hilarious. She's really, really cool."
Check out some more of Beckinsale's hilariousness in this video.
Sometimes you just can't decide what to wear!
That seemed to be the case for Kim Kardashian West, who stepped out in New York City on Tuesday wearing… a little bit of everything.
The 35-year-old reality star left her apartment sporting black biker shorts, which she paired with a denim bodice and sheer top.
Kim also opted for some comfortable accessories to kinda, sorta match her outfit, as she added a black-and-white duster, Givenchy Mink slippers, Kanye West and black shades (to block out all the haters).
The mother of two's glam squad appears to have taken the day off following her understated, fresh, out-of-the shower look at Sunday's VMAs, which landed her on several best dressed lists.
Before stepping out in Tuesday's mismatched look, Kim dished on Sunday's sexy hit style.
"For this year's VMAs, I originally wanted to go for a really glammed up look, but I changed my mind last minute," she wrote on her app. "I was so inspired by my recent trip to Mexico, that I went with this amazing, vintage Galliano dress that I already had in my closet, for forever."
See more on Kim's VMA look in the video below.
Peter Ostrum, best known for portraying Charlie Bucket in Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory, is remembering his late co-star and friend, Gene Wilder, who died on Monday at the age of 83.
In an interview with Variety, Ostrum opened up about what it was like working with the iconic comedian, and the legacy his beloved candy-making character, Willy Wonka, left behind.
"He was the pro and I was a rookie," Ostrum, now 58, said of he and Wilder's relationship on set. "[The crew] would break for lunch and Gene and I would always buy a chocolate bar and share it on the way back to the set."
Starring in Willy Wonka was Ostrum's first and only film role, as he left the business to become a veterinarian.  Even though Ostrum told Variety he had not seen Wilder since filming wrapped on the 1971 movie, hearing the news of his death was "kind of like losing a parent."
"You know it's going to happen, but it's still a shock," Ostrum explained. "He was not in good health at the end and it was not unexpected by any means, but when it happens, it hits you like, 'Gene is gone and there will never be anyone like him again.'"
"He was a gentle man, but he was also a gentleman. He treated people with respect and dignity," Ostrum continued. "He was so quirky. You never knew what to expect from Gene. He never let on how he was going to read a line or convey an expression. That's why the film works, because he made Wonka so unpredictable."
Looking back, Ostrum says he'll forever cherish the memories he shared with the veteran actor, as well as Jack Albertson, who portrayed Charlie's grandpa Joe.
"To have made one film and to be associated with Jack and Gene, I feel like I really found the golden ticket," he gushed. "My gut feeling is that Willy Wonka wasn't [Gene's] favorite role, but that's the role now that people across the generations remember him for."
As ET previously reported, Wilder -- who also starred in such classics as Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, and The Producers -- died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, which he had been battling privately for three years.
"We understand for all the emotional and physical challenges this situation presented we have been among the lucky ones -- this illness-pirate, unlike in so many cases, never stole his ability to recognize those that were closest to him, nor took command of his central-gentle-life affirming core personality," Wilder's nephew, Jordan Walker-Pearlman, shared in a statement given to ET. "It took enough, but not that."
"The decision to wait until this time to disclose his condition wasn't vanity, but more so that the countless young children that would smile or call out to him, 'There's Willy Wonka,' would not have to be then exposed to an adult referencing illness or trouble and causing delight to travel to worry, disappointment or confusion," the statement continued. "He simply couldn't bear the idea of one less smile in the world."
"He was 83 and passed holding our hands with the same tenderness and love he exhibited as long as I can remember," Walker-Pearlman concluded. "As our hands clutched and he performed one last breath the music speaker, which was set to random, began to blare out one of his favorites: Ella Fitzgerald. There is a picture of he and Ella meeting at a London Bistro some years ago that are among each or cherished possessions. She was singing 'Somewhere Over The Rainbow,' as he was taken away."
On Tuesday, Coldplay honored the screen legend by performing an acoustic version of "Pure Imagination," the Willy Wonka & the Chocolate Factory anthem made famous by Wilder, at the Pepsi Center in Denver, Colorado. Hear highlights from the British rock band's whimsical tribute in the video above.
Shannen Doherty has been publicly battling breast cancer for a year and a half, and not only are her fans in awe of her bravery and openness, so are her good friends and co-workers.
ET's Deidre Behar spoke with Kevin Smith and his daughter, Harley Quinn Smith, on Tuesday at the Burbank studios, and the topic of his previous movies came up while discussing his next film, Yoga Hosers, out Sept. 2. Smith directed Doherty in 1995's Mallrats, crediting the cult classic's existence to the 45-year-old actress.
"I get really emotional about Shannen, because I've been in this business 22 years -- Shannen predates me. She was in this business before I was," he explains. "Without Shannen, I don't get to make Mallrats... The only reason I got to make that goofy a** movie, which was pitched literally as 'Clerks in a mall,' was because Shannen Doherty, who was coming off of 90210, super heat on her, said yes to doing the flick."
When ET spoke with Doherty earlier this month, she mentioned the note from Smith, saying it was one of the funniest messages she received.
"It's such a Kevin Smith thing," she shared. "He sent me this long email, but the beginning of it was, 'You look so effing metal with your haircut.' And it just made me feel so good. I was like, 'Yeah! I'm a bada**!'"
Smith, 46, echoed that same line but also noted her incredible response to a separate part of his email, where he mentioned the project they've been working on: Mallrats The Series. The Tusk director recalls telling his pal, "Get better soon because we're heading towards Mallrats."
Her quick response? "I'm not too sick to work. Don't worry! Moving forward."
Talk about an incredible work ethic!
Smith has considered working Doherty's illness into the TV show's storyline, but would only do so at her behest. "My suspicion would be [her saying], 'No, dude, I'm dealing with that in the real world. In Mallrats world, let me not have to play with that stuff,'" he says.
Needless to say, Smith is impressed by how Doherty is handling her diagnosis.
"I'm in awe of anybody's strength when they have to face the unknown," he tells ET. "Nobody likes to talk about mortality. We all want to believe we live forever."
"When the real interrupts fake life -- and we all out here [in L.A.] make pretend for a living -- absolutely, it stops everybody," he adds. "And instead of appreciating people like, 'I love that person, I love their movie,' you appreciate the genius of somebody who's facing the unfaceable with absolute grace and good humor, and you're like, 'You're my f**king hero.'"
EXCLUSIVE: Shannen Doherty Says Her Dog Was First to Detect Her Breast Cancer
Coincidentally, Doherty shared a heartbreaking photo to Instagram on Tuesday, showing fans what a day at an oncology center looks like. "The many faces of cancer. Chemo Day," she wrote. "What we call the Red Devil being injected into me via the port thats in my chest. Dawn is my nurse who takes excellent care of me August 10, 2016#cancersucks #fightlikeagirl."
Hear more about Doherty's latest health updates in the video below.
Congratulations to Jena Malone!
The 31-year-old actress took to Instagram on Tuesday to announce that she "said yes" to boyfriend Ethan DeLorenzo!
Malone made the big announcement with a sweet photo of her hand cradling her son, Ode Mountain. 
"One day, after all the youthful rushing quiets in your heart, you realize there’s nothing more you need," she captioned the cute pic, which included a ring on her right hand. "Nothing more you want to achieve than to build your life around love."
"And oh the things we will get to build together. I couldn’t be happier. I love you Ethan," she wrote, alongside the telling hashtag "#isaidyes💍."
Malone and DeLorenzo announced the birth of their son in May with an adorable family photo on Instagram.
"The best weekend of our lives!!!" she captioned the photo of the couple gazing lovingly at their baby boy. "What an incredible blessing to be chosen by this amazing, kind, gentle and beautiful soul to be his parents. Humbled an in complete awe that we get to experience the most ancient and transcendent love that exists."
ET has reached out to Malone's rep for comment.
PHOTOS: Stars Share Pics of Their Cute Kids
Malone isn't the only one gushing about an engagement.
ET recently spoke to Suits star Patrick J. Adams, who said that despite keeping details of his upcoming wedding to Pretty Little Liars star Troian Belissario super-secret, they're both "incredibly excited."
"We're going to make sure that everyone finds out about that long after it happens," he shared. "That's kind of our game plan… but obviously we're both incredibly excited. Once it does, we'll make sure that the world knows."
See what Bellisario had to say on their upcoming nuptials in the video below.
Despite a cheating scandal and a costly divorce with ex-husband Nick Cokas, Scorpion actress Katharine McPhee has no regrets, as she revealed in an interview with Ocean Drive this week.
"I got married really young, and then divorced, and in the last couple of years, I felt like, 'Wow, this is what I should have been doing when I was 20 instead of planning a wedding,'" the 32-year-old actress says.
"But I don't have any regrets," she adds. "All of the choices I made I learned from in a really deep way. I have always been fortunate to have strong influences in my life who have forced me to look at my own choices and my own failures. I think we are all on that journey to have more awareness about who we are as a person and to grow and learn."
The American Idol alum filed for divorce from Cokas, 50, in 2014, after six years of marriage. In the months before the divorce, McPhee was spotted kissing the director of her now-cancelled series Smash, Michael Morris. As part of the divorce, settled in February of this year, she was ordered to pay spousal support plus a percentage of her earnings from Smash, the pilot of her current series, Scorpion, and from music she created and released during their marriage.
McPhee had since been dating her Scorpion co-star Elyes Gabel, but split with him earlier this year after almost two years together. Although she's single now, the actress says there's still "a certain level of attachment" with her prior relationship.
"People say, 'You just need to hook up with a bunch of people,' but I am more of an in-love kind of person. I want to be in love with one person. I'm a one-man kind of gal and a kind of true romantic at heart."
Check out more expensive celebrity divorces in this video.
Elle Fanning only turned 18 in April, which is hard to believe given her long list of accolades and accomplishments.
But despite rumblings the actress would follow in older sister Dakota's footsteps and enroll in a university, she tells ET that’s not the case – yet.
“For this year, I'm not going at the moment because I’m starting a film and I don't think it would be fair… I wouldn't really be there,” she explains. “If I went, I would want to kind of have the college experience.”
Fanning certainly has a lot on her plate. We counted eight movies in production on her IMDB page, including Live by Night, also starring Ben Affleck, who wrote and directed the Prohibition-era film.
Fanning confirms they’ve wrapped shooting and says she was in awe by Affleck’s talent on set.
“It’s insane because he wrote it and directed it and he’s starring in the movie...so you're acting with the director. It’s crazy!" she shares. "I would love to direct one day, so for me, seeing that, I mean, he's thinking like a mile-a-minute about everything. It’s pretty insane. So that was really, really cool to see.”
Fanning also says she has a newfound desire to join the comic world, seeing how Affleck is the newest big-screen Batman.
“Of course!" she exclaims. "Yeah, that sounds so cool. I mean, there's so many good ones -- Batgirl, Cat Woman… I would love it!”
But the newest role Fanning’s garnering buzz for is About Ray.  The film reportedly received a standing ovation at the Toronto Film Festival last year and was acquired by The Weinstein Company, though a release date hasn’t been set yet.  Fanning plays a transgender boy – a role she tells ET was one of the most “amazing” she’s ever done.
“I would say [it was] the most challenging," she says. "I played a transgender boy and I got to meet with so many amazing young guys and just talking to them and hearing their stories... it was powerful. I'll never fully feel the way they feel but I think to have a movie that's about a transgender teen isn't done often but it needs to be out there so maybe someone in another state that's going through what Ray is going through, maybe they'll relate to them and know that they're being heard at least.”
One starlet who is venturing to college? Ariel Winter.  Watch the video below to see what she exclusively told ET about what she plans to study -- and why.
The Real Housewives of New York has finished what might’ve been its most explosive season ever, and from health scares to infidelity, all the drama will be revisited during the show’s three-part reunion special, premiering Aug. 31 on Bravo. Ramona Singer tells ET, “There were so many bombshells [at the reunion], my head was spinning. It took me two weeks to recover.”
The reunion was taped in mid-July and the ladies took to social media shortly thereafter. On Snapchat, Sonja Morgan said she was “hardly able to speak” after the taping. It’s unclear whether her silence was the result of shock or physical exhaustion; Singer says the cast arrived at 6 a.m. and didn’t wrap until 9:30 p.m., with just a one-hour break during the “grueling” day.
Bethenny Frankel had a fever that day, but Singer says that didn’t stop her from bringing the heat. “For not feeling well, she really went off the rails,” Singer says. Frankel tells ET this was her most difficult reunion ever for the show. “I didn’t enjoy it at all,” she says. “Last year, we all went to dinner afterwards. This year ended differently.”
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Bethenny Frankel’s Stunning Hamptons Home!
Frankel says she’s always lived honestly on the show, and argues some of the other ladies don’t do the same. “You have 50 percent of the cast that has a whole taboo, police line, do-not-cross section of their life that is not discussed on camera and never has been,” she says. “For legal issues and liability issues, Bravo doesn't need to bring it up. It's a difficult line to ride and that may be why I don't come back.”
At the reunion, the Skinnygirl mogul accuses new cast member Jules Wainstein, who is splitting from husband Michael after photos of him with an alleged mistress surfaced online, of planning to get divorced before the season even began. But Luann de Lesseps tells ET she doesn’t buy that theory. “I think Jules came into the show very much married,” she says. “They looked very much together. I was surprised, like everybody else, to hear.”
Of course, de Lesseps’ fast engagement to Tom D’Agostino, Jr., and his kiss with another woman just days after will be a major topic of the reunion. For Singer, whose split from longtime husband Mario was chronicled on the show after he had an affair, the news of D’Agostino’s infidelity brought up memories. On the season finale, Singer revealed she discovered Mario’s affair through the press. “With my divorce … it was bittersweet because I really did care for him very much but we grew apart,” she says. “I mean he wants to live in Florida full time. Can you see me living in Boca full time? Not meant to be.”
EXCLUSIVE: Why Luann de Lesseps Forgave Her Fiance After He Cheated
De Lesseps seems to feel good about how the reunion went, though. "I actually like the reunion because you get to really tell your side of the story," she tells ET. "There's redemption. There's starting over."
Another pairing the ladies are likely to go head-to-head over is Dorinda Medley and her boyfriend, John Mahdessian, who battled with Frankel for much of the season’s first half. In recent episodes, he largely disappeared. “I think [Dorinda] realized when John came around other women, conflicts started to happen.” Singer says.
Ultimately, Frankel says she “might not be back” to RHONY because of how intense the reunion was. “Something very dramatic happened at the reunion to question my integrity,” she reveals. “If someone questions my business or my integrity, I take it really seriously; I don't just kind of gloss over it. So, I think maybe the ‘fun and light’ Bethenny that people expect, with the quips and the comebacks, wasn't there.”
The Real Housewives of New York Season 8 Reunion, Part I premieres Wednesday, Aug. 31 on Bravo.
Criminal Minds is bringing back a familiar face, and fans are going to be very happy.
Paget Brewster, who was a series regular on the CBS drama from season two through seven, will return as SSA Emily Prentiss on a permanent basis in season 12, weeks after Thomas Gibson was fired following an on-set altercation with a writer.

The news is more of a promotion for Brewster, who was already slated to return to Criminal Minds for a multi-episode arc. She’s since returned to the BAU for guest spots, most recently following Shemar Moore’s departure in season 11.
Brewster’s first episode back as a regular has been tentatively scheduled for Wednesday, Oct. 12 at 9 p.m. ET/PT.

“Creative details for how the character’s exit will be addressed in the show will be announced at a later date,” read a joint statement by ABC Studios and CBS Television Studios issued on Aug. 12.
Gibson released his own statement after being ousted, saying that he had hoped to see the show until its natural end.

Back in March, Moore -- who played FBI Agent Derek Morgan since season one -- left the door open for a potential return to Criminal Minds, telling ET after his final episode, “Last night was not goodbye. Derek didn’t die, so anything is possible.”
Selena Gomez is taking a much-needed break to focus on her health.
Following months of travel for her Revival World Tour and a brief Instagram feud with her famous ex, Justin Bieber, the "Hands to Myself" singer -- who is battling lupus -- revealed the news in a statement to ET on Tuesday.
"As many of you know, around a year ago I revealed that I have lupus, an illness that can affect people in different ways," the 24-year-old pop star explained.
"I've discovered that anxiety, panic attacks and depression can be side effects of lupus, which can present their own challenges."
"I want to be proactive and focus on maintaining my health and happiness and have decided that the best way forward is to take some time off," she continued. "Thank you to all my fans for your support. You know how special you are to me, but I need to face this head on to ensure I am doing everything possible to be my best."
"I know I am not alone by sharing this," Gomez concluded. "I hope others will be encouraged to address their own issues."
A source close to the former Disney star tells ET the break comes after Gomez said she "hadn't felt like herself" lately, and that it is "absolutely not related to alcohol or substance abuse."
"She decided to clear her calendar for the year in order to have this be her priority for future happiness and didn't want to leave any promoters at bay," the source continued. "She feels relieved that she can now make more sense of why she was feeling the way she was and is optimistic about the future."
Upon hearing the news, the official Lupus Research Alliance tweeted well-wishes to Gomez. "Sending our very best to @selenagomez," the message read. "Thank you for being such a strong voice for the #lupus community."
According to the organization's co-CEO and co-president, Kenneth M. Farber, "it is not commonly known that depression, anxiety and panic attacks can be side effects of lupus."
"We are so proud of Selena for taking care of herself and bringing awareness to this sometimes very misunderstood illness," he added.
While chatting with Billboard last October, Gomez announced she had been diagnosed with the chronic inflammatory disease three years ago, which caused her to take a break from the spotlight and undergo chemotherapy.
"I wanted so badly to say, 'You guys have no idea. I'm in chemotherapy. You're a**holes,'" Gomez said at the time, referencing rumors that she was dealing with substance abuse issues. "I locked myself away until I was confident and comfortable again."
Now, she's not afraid to speak out on the disease she'll be living with for the rest of her life.
"It's kind of one of those situations," she said during a 2015 appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. "You just have to take care of yourself."
Hear more on Gomez's lupus battle in the video below.
Miley Cyrus' glorious return to acting is coming sooner than you think!
Photos of the pop star on the set of her new Amazon series, Crisis in Six Scenes, first surfaced in March, and now we now have an official first look at our favorite Happy Hippie looking like… well, a happy hippy.
In one photo released by Amazon on Tuesday, Woody Allen appears to be chatting with Cyrus, who is sporting baggy green pants, a bohemian poncho, and long blonde locks.
Another image shows a close-up on the "Wrecking Ball" singer as she stares into the distance.
Crisis in Six Scenes, Allen's first foray into television, is described as "a comedy that takes place in the 1960s during turbulent times in the United States and a middle class suburban family is visited by a guest who turns their household completely upside down."
The series, which will consist of six half-hour episodes stars Allen, Cyrus, Elaine May, Rachel Brosnahan and John Magaro. Details on Cyrus' role have been kept under wraps.
While this is the first time Allen and Cyrus have worked together, the 80-year-old director has been a fan of the former Disney star since her Hannah Montana days.
"I noticed years ago that my kids would be watching Hannah Montana. And I would say, 'Who is that girl? She's got such good delivery. You know, she snaps those lines off so well. The show  is a silly little show, but she's very good at what she does,'" he told The Hollywood Reporter earlier this year.
Similarly, Cyrus seems to admire Allen, sharing an Instagram snap of the two on set and captioning the pic with a series of hearts.
Crisis in Six Scenes premieres Friday, Sept. 30 on Amazon Prime Video.
To hear why Allen is a Cyrus fan, watch the video below. 
Nicole Johnson might be ready to marry Michael Phelps now, but she reveals in a new interview with Cosmopolitan that there were times in the past when she actually "loathed" the Olympic swimmer.
The former Miss California started dating Phelps in 2009 and split with him for a period of time three years later.
"There definitely were times, and I think Michael would say the same thing, where I hated him," the 31-year-old model says.  "We were at odds at times. Even when I loathed him, there were still times when I was like, 'God, I wish I was with him.'"
The couple later reconciled and became engaged last year. They now have a son together, the adorably Instagrammable 4-month-old Boomer. But Johnson insists the break was ultimately necessary for their relationship.
"Michael and I both know that had we tried to have a child and get married in the previous time we were together, it probably would not have ended pretty," she shares. "We both had a lot of growing up to do. We both had a lot of learning about ourselves to do. I don't think you can be in a good relationship unless you love yourself to the fullest and you want to help the other person become a better person. We definitely needed that time apart to recognize that about ourselves and to appreciate one another."
As for Phelps' retirement from swimming, Johnson says her 23-time gold medal-winning fiancé went out exactly how he wanted to, so she doesn't see him making another return to the sport. "Then again, you never know," she adds. "Maybe he misses it so much and maybe Boomer convinces him that he has to go back so Boomer can remember it."
Speaking of Boomer, check out Phelps giving us all the feels about having his son watch him win gold in the video below.
Debbie Rowe is preparing for her chemotherapy treatments.
The ex-wife of Michael Jackson, who was diagnosed with breast cancer earlier this summer, tells ET that she will be undergoing six treatments of chemo, once every three weeks, followed by radiation everyday for five weeks. And thankfully, it's not a fight the 57-year-old has to go through alone.
Debbie tells ET that her daughter, Paris Jackson, is her rock and a tremendous support throughout this whole process. The 19-year-old actress and her mom have been in constant contact since Debbie's diagnosis in July, when ET learned that the two had reconnected.
Meanwhile, it's been an emotional time for the family, who spent Monday honoring what would have been the late King of Pop's 58th birthday.
MORE: Michael Jackson Honored With Tributes From Daughter Paris and Brothers on 7th Anniversary of Late Music Icon's Death
Paris shared a sonnet her brother, Prince Jackson, posted to Instagram honoring their father, writing, "Proud of you big brother. and happy birthday to the man that means more to us than anything and anyone ever could."
Watch the video below for more on Debbie's cancer diagnosis.
Renee Zellweger may not be putting on the pounds this time to play the lovable Bridget Jones in Bridget Jones's Baby, but she is still stepping out of her comfort zone in another big way -- playing a first-time mother.
ET sat down with Zellweger and actors Colin Firth and Patrick Dempsey in London on Tuesday to talk about the highly anticipated third installment of the franchise, in which Bridget is pregnant with a baby, but doesn't know whether the father is Mark Darcy (Firth) or American businessman Jack Qwant (Dempsey). Zellweger, 47, strapped on a baby bump for the role, and says working with the children in the film was her favorite memory of filming in London.
"The children made me laugh," Zellweger exclusively tells ET's Carly Steel. "Adorable and sweet -- so sweet. That little Rafferty [Railton], he killed me."
Still, Zellweger is honest when asked if the role made her feel "maternal."
"Oh gosh, no. It just made me know I needed to get back to the gym and start using some dumbbells because those little guys are heavy," she jokes. "I had no idea. Kudos to the moms."
It's been 15 years since Bridget Jones's Diary first came out in 2001, and Zellweger says she's glad that plenty of time has passed since the second film of the franchise -- Bridget Jones: The Edge of Reason -- hit theaters in 2004.
"It's kind of fun to catch up," she explains. "I was so happy to be back in her world and be reunited with her friends and her family, and it just reminded me of how much I love these characters."
"It really did add a whole dimension, for comedy value," Firth, 55, adds, "because you got a bit of nostalgia at play. Also, the audience has aged with us."
Of course, the film has some throwbacks to the earlier films, including Bridget's love for granny panties. But Zellweger says nobody has ever asked her to wear a pair in real life.
"Oh gosh, no!" Zellweger says. "No, can you imagine? Especially a boyfriend!"
... But is newcomer Dempsey, 50, a fan of the granny panties?
"As much as anyone can be," he laughs.
Bridget Jones's Baby hits theaters Sept. 16.
Watch the video below to see Zellweger and Dempsey looking adorable together posing for pics in Australia earlier this month, when the two officially embarked on the film's press tour.
Shannon Purser is all about embracing body confidence!
The Stranger Things star -- who portrayed Nancy Wheeler's less-cool, responsible best friend, Barbara "Barb" Holland, in the supernatural Netflix series -- took to Twitter on Tuesday to share a positive message about shattering Hollywood's beauty standards.
"Can I be super real?" she wrote. "Didn't think a girl with my body type could get this far. I'm so thankful and excited. Much love to you all."
The tweet was well-received, with fans writing things like, "I have a similar body type and it made me so happy to see you on Stranger Things," "Don't ever change. You are beautiful and brilliant!" and "This means so much, I love you." Another fan chimed in, saying, "Can I be real? You're killin' life and are so beautiful! Keep slaying the game girl!"
The tweet came just two hours after Purser revealed over Instagram that she has joined the cast of Riverdale, The CW's new teen drama TV series that is based on iconic characters from the Archie Comics.
"SO excited to tell you all that I will be playing Ethel Muggs in the new CW show 'Riverdale,'" she gushed. "Cannot WAIT.  💜💜 @thecwriverdale #riverdale#archie #cw."
As for Stranger Things, Purser isn't the only one from the show that was incredibly shocked by all the fan reaction she's received during its eight-episode first season.
ET caught up with her co-star, Joe Keery, earlier this month, where he explained there was "no way" he would have anticipated such success.
"It was a definite surprise," Keery told ET on the red carpet at Variety's Power of Young Hollywood event. "I mean, I read the script, loved the script and everything, and knew that everybody who was working on it was great, super-talented -- but the response has been crazy. Really crazy, yeah."
Hear more in the video below.
Turns out, Drew Barrymore is a triple-threat star!
The 41-year-old actress took a dance lesson with Pussycat Dolls founder Robin Antin, and really kept up with the class!
Antin was quite impressed with Barrymore's moves, and took video of the Charlie's Angels star's secret talent. "So proud of my beautiful and loving friend @drewbarrymore!" Antin gushed. "I LOVE DANCING with YOU! Thank u @gimme_5_dollar!"
Barrymore really worked on her fitness over the weekend. On Saturday, she also shared a makeup-free selfie from a yoga mat, writing: "#hotyoga #saturday #love"
EXCLUSIVE: Drew Barrymore Talks Motherhood, Getting Her Kids’ Names Tattooed on Her Wrist -- 'They Are My Joy'
The mother of two has been having lots of fun this summer, following her divorce from Will Kopelman. Earlier this month, she jetted off to Las Vegas with her friends, and even got to meet David Copperfield. Check out her action-packed trip to Sin City!
For Jordan Rodgers, it's all about the simple things in life.
The ESPN correspondent and former Bachelorette star celebrated his 28th birthday on Tuesday, but it seems all he wanted to kick off the day was a little time in the outdoors at one of his favorite spots.
Rodgers and fiancée JoJo Fletcher, who recently bought a house together in Dallas, Texas, headed back to his hometown of Chico, California, for his special day, and took an early morning hike at Monkey Face to watch the sun rise.
Fans will remember the spot from Rodgers' hometown date on The Bachelorette, as he told Fletcher that the trail, which he used to "run every morning" in high school, was one of his favorite places.
And, judging by her Snapchats, it's pretty obvious Fletcher couldn't be more excited to celebrate with Rodgers in his hometown.
"This is what he wanted to do to start his birthday… hike!" Fletcher said as she trailed behind Rodgers. "Babe! I'm coming!"
While Rodgers clearly had his sights set on reaching the top of the mountain, Fletcher had other priorities. "Babe, what are you doin'?" he asked her in another video. "Taking a picture of the flowers," she yelled back.
But it seems the couple finally reached their destination, commemorating the occasion with a few adorable pics.
Fletcher also took to Instagram to wish her fiancé a happy birthday.
"Morning hike to catch the sunrise with this one," she wrote. "Happy Birthday my love! Can't wait to celebrate many many more with you @jrodgers11. #monkeyface #alreadysore."
It’s been a big week for Rodgers, who just started a new position as a college football analyst for the SEC Network.
See more on his new gig -- and how Fletcher congratulated him -- in the video below.
As Colin Kaepernick's refusal to stand for the singing of the national anthem continues to raise tensions both on the field and on the internet, John Legend's take is possibly the most unifying opinion out there.
The GRAMMY winner posed a question on Monday to those criticizing the San Francisco 49ers quarterback's boycott of "The Star-Spangled Banner."
"For those defending the current anthem, do you really truly love that song?" Legend, 37, tweeted. "I don't and I'm very good at singing it. Like, one of the best."
Exhibit A: his rendition of the song during the NBA Finals earlier this year, which you can check out here.
"My vote is for 'America the Beautiful,'" he continued. "'Star-Spangled Banner' is a weak song anyway."
Kaepernick's controversy began when he addressed NFL Media after what was at least his second time remaining seated during the national anthem before a game on Friday.
"I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color," the 28-year-old athlete explained. "To me, this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way. There are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder."
His statements incensed fellow athletes and fans alike. NASCAR driver Tony Stewart called Kaepernick an "idiot" who "needs to learn the fact about police before running his dumba** mouth," while former NFL player and current NFL analyst Rodney Harrison criticized Kaepernick for his actions because, as Harrison put it, "he's not black."
Kaepernick is in fact biracial, having come from a biologically white mother and a black father, despite being adopted by white parents. Harrison later apologized for his statements.
The 49ers weighed in with their own statement, saying, "The national anthem is and always will be a special part of the pre-game ceremony. It is an opportunity to honor our country and reflect on the great liberties we are afforded as its citizens. In respecting such American principles as freedom of religion and freedom of expression, we recognize the right of an individual to choose and participate, or not, in our celebration of the national anthem."
Khloe Kardashian is expressing her concern for Rob Kardashian after hearing that her brother has been arguing with his pregnant fiancee, Blac Chyna.
In a new promo for Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Khloe inquires while chatting with her sister, Kim Kardashian West, and mother, Kris Jenner, about Rob's well-being. "They're still not talking to each other?" she asks. "How long is that gonna go on for?"
"I talked to Chyna and it scared me because it was everything that we had experienced with him, she was experiencing the same thing," Kris shares. "So, she wrote me last night and she said, 'Can I see you tomorrow? I just really need to talk to you. Rob won't talk to me.'"
Kris adds that she's uncertain of what Rob and Chyna are fighting about, which leads Kim to ask, "Is he ever gonna see his kid though, or is she gonna take it?"
Clearly worried, Khloe adds, "You really think they're over? He seems like when I talked to him he was very much in love with her. Am I missing something? How long have they not been speaking for?"
In her on-camera interview, Khloe reveals how concerned she is that Rob will return to his reclusive ways. "I know when my brother hurts how badly he does hurt," she says. "The more they're fighting and the longer things are bothering him, the more depressed he gets. He'll go into hiding again, go missing. I don't want Rob to live that life anymore."
Earlier this month, a source close to Rob told ET that he was "just going through one of his mood swings, which is common for him," but was still committed to filming his reality show with Chyna.
"He goes through his dark periods," the source adds. "He gets depressed and doesn't want to really do anything, doesn't leave the house. It got better for a bit when he first started dating Chyna, but he's in a rut now. He'll snap out of it."
Lance Bass is ready to let his troubled past with Lou Pearlman go.
The 37-year-old singer stopped by the Allegedly with Theo Von & Matthew Cole Weiss podcast on Monday, where he talked about *NSYNC's rocky relationship with the band's former manager, who died in prison at age 62 earlier this month while serving a 25-year sentence for orchestrating one of the largest Ponzi schemes in American history.
"The last time I saw him was in court," Bass admitted. "He was just a shady guy and never really reached out for forgiveness."
EXCLUSIVE: Lance Bass on 'Conflicted Feelings' After Lou Pearlman's Death: 'He Got His In the End'
"I believe in forgiveness," he explained. "So one thing I can say that I feel after knowing that he has died is that I have forgiven him."
"Karma will get him in the end," Bass added. "But I have to forgive."
Still, that doesn't mean the TV personality has had an easy time reconciling troubling rumors from Pearlman's past, including allegations of pedophilia.
Bass, who said that he is aware of the "rumors of molesting kids" surrounding Pearlman noted that while nothing explicit ever happened to him, he at times "felt something" may have been going on.
"Even at 16 years old, he would come up to us and grab our arms and go, 'Hey, have you boys been working out?'" Bass said. "I knew that was just to kinda feel my arms."
Bass also addressed the band's very conflicted feelings about Pearlman's death to MTV at the 2016 VMAs on Sunday, saying, "We didn't have the best relationship at all, but if it wasn't for him, I wouldn't have met four of my best friends."
And that friendship persists to this day.
"It's hard to get all five of us in a room," Bass admitted to the podcast hosts, but did share, "We have this group text that we've been on for 10 years now."
Bass revealed that when all the members did finally reunite -- earlier this month at JC Chasez's 40th birthday -- it was like nothing had changed.
"We ended up just the five of us and our significant others," he said. "I love when my husband gets to see how we are as brothers."
"The whole crew jokes, and we all got wasted," he added. "It was a good time."
EXCLUSIVE: AJ McLean on Lou Pearlman's Death: 'I'll Always Be Grateful for the Opportunity He Gave Me'
"Four of us get together a lot," Bass said during the interview, saying that even Justin Timberlake, with his superstar schedule, often finds time to hang out.
But while the boy banders still remain in contact, Bass sadly is not sure a reunion is in the cards.
"Of course I would do more music with these guys. I love it," he said. "I don't know if it would ever happen."
What makes an *NSYNC reunion more challenging than some of the other millenium boy band reunions we've seen, in Bass' opinion: 'None of them have Justin Timberlake."
"Justin was just an anomaly," he explained. "We had no idea his career was gonna blow up like that. It would not stop."
And *NSYNC without all five members, Bass says, is out of the question.
EXCLUSIVE: Joey Fatone Talks *NSYNC Reunion and Whether They'll Ever Perform Again
"Justin was saying ... 'Guys, you wanna do something the four of you, go ahead," Bass said. "We ultimately all decided it's just not *NSYNC without all five guys."
Meanwhile, Bass also played a game of "F**k, Marry, Kill" with the hosts focusing on the Kardashian-Jenner family, and his answers might surprise you!
"F**k Brody ... Marry Kourtney, I just think she's hilarious," Bass admitted. "Kill Kylie, 'cause I'm damn pissed that a girl can make $100 million a month off lipstick."
Not a bad answer, Lance!
Listen to the whole interview below:
Of course, Bass did also address his "mixed feelings" about Caitlyn Jenner, whom the singer has in the past taken to task for her conflicting political views on transgender rights and conservative ideology.
"The visibility she's brought to the transgender community is incredible," Bass said. "However, she is a very strong Republican, and has some really messed up views that don't really make sense with her lifestyle."
"I think she's very uneducated in a lot of areas," he added.
EXCLUSIVE: Lance Bass Says 'Finding Prince Charming' Is a 'Whole Different Ballgame' From 'The Bachelor'
Kim Kardashian West's natural, beach-inspired beauty at the MTV Video Music Awards was by far one of the most talked-about looks on Sunday night.
The 35-year-old reality star rocked the white carpet in New York City, sporting barely-there makeup and an ensemble that was far less glam than her usual head-turning get-ups. The mother of two later took to her app to explain her seemingly effortless appearance.
"For this year's VMAs, I originally wanted to go for a really glammed up look, but I changed my mind last minute," Kim, who accessorized with Manolo Blahnik lace-up heels and Kanye West x Jacob the Jeweler jewelry, dished. "I was so inspired by my recent trip to Mexico, that I went with this amazing, vintage Galliano dress that I already had in my closet, for forever."
"[Makeup artist] Mario Dedivanovic gave me a bronzed natural makeup look and [hair stylist] Michael Silva went for a natural wet wavy hair style to complement my outfit," she continued. "We were so inspired by the beach hair and light makeup I did during a photoshoot at Casa Aramara!"
Dedivanovic also gushed over Kim's beachy vibes, taking to Instagram to explain how he was feeling inspired by his "recent trip to Hawaii and the bronzed beauties on the beach."
To create Kim's fresh-faced look, Dedivanovic used the following Laura Mercier products (and one Tatcha dewy face mist), totaling $516:
Infusion de Rose Nourishing Crème, $68Dedivanovic began Kim's look with this cream base, which gave her skin a soft, dewy look.
Candleglow Soft Luminous Foundation in Maple, $48"Apply a luminous foundation all over for glowy skin," Dedivanovic suggested via Kim's app.
Translucent Loose Setting Powder, $38Dusting this product over the foundation gave Kim's face a flawless feel.
Face Illuminator in Addiction and Devotion, $44 eachTo get the perfect illuminator, "mix two illuminators," he explained. "Addiction is a golden highlighter that makes you look sun-kissed."
Matte Radiance Baked Powder Compact in Bronze, $40Dedivanovic used this bronzer to give Kim's hairline, nose and cheeks the perfect contour.
Second Skin Cheek Color in Peach Whisper, $26A pop of this fun color gave Kim's cheeks the perfect summery vibe.
Caviar Stick Eye Color in Sand Glow, $29How did Kim's eyes appear so bright? The secret is in this creamy eyeshadow, which Dedivanovic brushed all over her lids.
Eye Art Caviar Color-Inspired Palette, $55Dedivanovic also used the pretty "Copper" shade from this palette, brushing it on the outer corners of the Selfish author's eyelids and across her lower lash line.
Brow Dimension Fiber Infused Color Gel in Brunette, $24Kim can credit this product for giving her "brows on fleek!"
Lip Pencil in Hazelnut Tea, $24Dedivanovic outlined Kim's lips with this mauve-colored lip pencil.
Velour Lovers Lip Color in Sensual, $28For the final touches on her lips, he filled them in with this soft, neutral hue.
Tatcha Luminous Dewy Skin Mist, $48A little trick? "Finish with this spray to set it all and add more dew," Dedivanovic explained.
Relive more memorable moments from the MTV Video Music Awards in the video below.
Chris Brown refused to come out of his Los Angeles home on Tuesday, after LAPD arrived at his property following allegations that a gun was pulled on a woman.
LAPD is currently trying to get into contact with Brown and are attempting to obtain a search warrant, after a 911 call came in at 3:12 a.m. from a female needing help outside a residence in the 5000 block of Corbin Avenue, police told ET on Tuesday. The investigation is now being handed over to Robbery Homicide Division. There have been no arrests at this time, and it’s still an ongoing investigation.
Brown, 27, addressed his 30 million Instagram followers from inside his home on Tuesday, and adamantly denied any wrongdoing in a profanity-laced rant.
"So, I'm sleep half the damn night, I just wake up, all these motherf**king helicopter choppers are around," Brown says in the first of three videos. "The police out there, at the gate. Come on, what the f**k else do y'all want from me, bro? I stay out of the way, take care of my daughter. Do work."
"I'm way too tired to be dealing with this bulls**t," he adds. "Every three months y’all come up with something, bro. What is it? What’s gonna be next? ... I'm innocent, f**k everybody. I'm tired of hearing this s**t."
In a second video, he explains why he hasn't come out of his residence.
"I'm not coming out for my house, for what? I ain't did s**t, I ain't gonna do s**t, and it's always gonna be f**k the police, black lives matter," he says. "I don't care. Y'all gonna stop playing with me like ... I'm going crazy, I'm not. You guys got me f**ked up though."
Brown smokes a cigarette in the third video, and says he doesn't care what people think about him.
"I don't give a f**k, I'm not running for politics. I don't give a f**k about personal opinion," he says. "But what I do care about is y'all defacing my name as a person, and my character and integrity. I am a father. I am one of the best entertainers out here, without bragging and saying, 'Woe is me, I don't get enough credit.'"
This isn't Brown's first brush with the law. The "Forever" singer spent six years on probation after pleading guilty to attacking his then-girlfriend Rihanna in 2009. Since then, he’s had several other run-ins with police, including pleading guilty to hitting a man outside a Washington, D.C., hotel in October 2013.
ET sat down with Brown in September 2014, when he opened up about his controversial past.
"You have to forgive yourself," he said. "You can't beat yourself up over the years, because it'll just eat at you and you'll be stuck in the past. And for me, I just learned to be a more humble individual and more of a conscious person."
Watch below:
Bella Hadid is giving a glimpse into her battle with Lyme disease.
The 19-year-old model took to Snapchat to share a candid photo of herself hooked up to an IV from her home on Monday.
"Everyday," she simply captioned the shot.
Hadid and her family -- her mom Yolanda and brother Anwar were also diagnosed with Lyme disease in 2012 --  haven't been shy about sharing their experiences with the disease.
Just last week, Yolanda shared a photo of herself from the hospital after undergoing Transvascular Autonomic Modulation (TVAM) surgery to finally conquer the disease.
"❤I am seeking, I am striving and I am in it to win it with all of my heart," the former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star captioned a pic of herself playing cards with friends in her hospital bed, along with the hashtags #LymeDiseaseAwareness #TvamSurgery #LastChapter #SearchingForACure and #RemissioninSight.
Days after her surgery, Yolanda sought comfort from her daughters, Bella and Gigi.
"❤To feel loved is the greatest gift we can receive........ #Love#MyGirls #MyEverything," she wrote on Thursday.
While Yolanda has spoken publicly about her struggle with Lyme disease on Housewives, the 52-year-old former model first gave a look into Bella's battle earlier this year.
"Watching my brave babies suffer in silence in order to support me in my journey has struck the deepest core of hopelessness inside of me, it is because of them that I continue to fight relentlessly," Yolanda shared in January, along with a snap of herself lying with Bella as she received treatment.
"I will not allow them to live a life of pain and suffering," she added. "We all deserve to live a healthy life, don't you think?"
See more in the video below.
Less than a month after having a baby girl, Bar Refaeli was back in her bikini.
On Monday, the 31-year-old supermodel shared a cheeky photo of her swimming in a black, string swimsuit. "Crystal clear," she captioned the black bikini photo.
On Aug. 11, Refaeli and husband Adi Ezra welcomed a seven-pound baby girl, Liv, into their family.
PHOTOS: Pregnant Bar Refaeli Shows Off Baby Bump in a Thong Bikini
While this is the first bikini photo we've seen of Refaeli since she gave birth, she didn't shy away from sporting a swimsuit while she was pregnant. "You can come out now .. I'm ready. And heavy," she captioned a two-piece pic of herself just days before going into labor.
She also shared a meditative image of herself in a bikini top, with her former baby bump on display. "Let it wash over me I'm ready to lose my feet. Take me off to the place where one reveals life's mystery," she wrote. "Steady on down the line Lose every sense of time Take it all in and wake up that small part of me Day to day I'm blind to see And find how far To go."
MORE: Gisele Bundchen Is Still World's Highest-Paid Model -- But Kendall Jenner Is Moving Up in the Ranks
Prior to adding to her family, Refaeli -- who dated Leonardo DiCaprio for a few years -- admitted that she's looking to have a rather large brood. "I think this will be a decade of family … I come from a family of four children," she told Hello! Fashion Monthly. "Hopefully, I’ll have a big family, but I’ll take it one by one."
Shannen Doherty continues to document her battle with breast cancer on Instagram, and recently shared photos of herself undergoing chemotherapy.
In the first image posted on Tuesday, the Beverly Hills, 90210 star is seen receiving a sweet kiss from her husband, Kurt Iswarienko, during a doctor's visit on Aug. 10. "There are many faces to cancer," she wrote. "This is one of them. Chemo Day With @kurtiswarienko by my side."
Doherty also shared a photo of herself getting injections. "The many faces of cancer. Chemo Day. What we call the Red Devil being injected into me via the port that's in my chest," she captioned the image. "Dawn is my nurse who takes excellent care of me August 10, 2016 #cancersucks #fightlikeagirl"
Earlier this summer, the 45-year-old actress revealed in an exclusive interview with ET that her cancer had spread. "From one of my surgeries, we discovered that some of the cancer cells might have actually gone out of the lymph nodes," Doherty explained. "So for that reason, we are doing chemo, and then after chemo, I'll do radiation."
EXCLUSIVE: Shannen Doherty Breaks Down Over Cancer Battle -- 'I Don't Look Past Today'
"The unknown is always the scariest part," Doherty added. "Is the chemo going to work? Is the radiation going to work? You know, am I going to have to go through this again, or am I going to get secondary cancer? Everything else is manageable. Pain is manageable, you know living without a breast is manageable, it's the worry of your future and how your future is going to affect the people that you love."
Last week, ET obtained documents confirming that Doherty had settled a legal battle with her former management firm. Doherty sued Tanner Mainstain, claiming Mainstain allowed her insurance coverage to lapse, which she says kept her from a regular checkup, thus causing her cancer to go undiagnosed. The actress landed a settlement in the $15 million suit, but the amount is undisclosed.
Looking good, Oprah Winfrey!
ET spoke with the 62-year-old media mogul at the Queen Sugar premiere at the Warner Bros. Studio Lot in Burbank, California, on Monday, where she stunned in a fitted black, La Petite Robe di Chiara Boni knee-length dress, which showed off a little bit of shoulder. A pair of open-toe heels, square frame eyeglasses and a sleek ponytail completed her effortless look.
PICS: Shocking Celebrity Weight-Loss Transformations
Winfrey acknowledged to ET's Nancy O'Dell that keeping up her weight loss has taken plenty of hard work.
"[Being on a] movie set, you know, it's so hard," she admitted, referring to currently filming the HBO movie The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. "You know, you are working those long days, and then by the end of the day you're like, 'Oh my God, a bag of hot Cheetos calling your name.'"
"You have to leave the craft table and ask for a plum," she added.
Obviously, the Weight Watchers part owner's dedication is paying off. When ET caught up with Winfrey last month at the Essence Festival in New Orleans, she said she was still sticking to the Weight Watchers eating plan. In March, she revealed she had already lost 30 pounds.
"I'm counting the points every day and slowly it's happening," she shared. "I love it."
She also revealed that she doesn't actually have a goal weight in mind.
"It's a feeling where you get to the point where [you think], 'Oh I can go to the store, I can pick that size, it's available, I don't have to, like, have it altered and all that stuff,'" she explained about her ultimate goals. "So, I'll know when I'm there."
Winfrey has been busy promoting Queen Sugar, a new drama on OWN following three siblings -- Nova Bordelon (Rutina Wesley), Charley Bordelon (Dawn-Lyen Gardner) and Ralph Angel (Kofi Siriboe) -- who reunite at their family's 800-acre Louisiana sugar cane farm after a family tragedy. Oprah co-created the series with Selma director Ava DuVernay, and the two assembled an all-female directorial team, including Neema Barnette, Kat Candler, Tina Mabry, Salli Richardson-Whitfield, Tanya Hamilton, So Yong Kim and Victoria Mahoney.
"That woman's voice and that point of view is something that I had to have," DuVernay told ET last month. "We opened it up and hand-picked some brilliant directors to collaborate and the results are stunning."
Queen Sugar debuts with a two-night premiere starting on Sept. 6 at 10 p.m. on OWN.
Watch our chat with Winfrey and DuVernay below:
It's been nearly two decades since JonBenet Ramsey was found beaten and strangled in the basement of her family's Colorado home.
In a sneak peek look from a sit-down interview with Dr. Phil airing next month, the 6-year-old beauty pageant star's brother, Burke, finally opens up about the mysterious murder, revealing shocking, never-before-heard details about the famous Dec. 1996 case.
"I remember my mom searching my room that night saying, 'Where's my baby? Where's my baby?'" Burke reveals in his first-ever media interview. "I know people think I did it; that my parents did it. I know that we were suspects."
"I want to honor her memory by doing this interview," he adds. "I don't want anyone to forget."
Burke was only 9-years-old when his sister died, but he says he still remembers specific moments from the unsolved case and her funeral clearly.
"I remember the viewing," Burke, now 29, shares. "The casket was small. Her eyes were closed."
More than 140 suspects and 1,400 pieces of evidence have been reviewed in JonBenet's murder, one of America's most talked-about cold cases. Burke and JonBenet's parents, John and Patsy (who died in 2006 after a battle with ovarian cancer), were the primary suspects for more than a decade until police cleared them of any wrongdoing in 2008. The two made the initial call to police, saying they found a note demanding ransom for their daughter of $118,000. John later found his daughter's body hours after police completed a search of the home.
The three-part season 15 premiere of Dr. Phil -- which will also air never-before-seen interrogation interviews conducted with Burke when he was 9 and 12 years old -- kicks off Monday, Sept. 12 and continues Tuesday, Sept. 13 and Monday, Sept. 19.
CBS is also revisiting the crime that transfixed the nation in a docu-series titled The Case of: JonBenet Ramsey. The six-hour limited series features a team of experts (including a few of the case's original investigators), who will re-examine the evidence 20 years later.
Watch the video below to see a sneak peek look at the series ahead of its premiere on Sunday, Sept. 18 at 8:30 p.m. ET.
It was a relationship only a few could understand.
Author Donald Bogle examines the unusual friendship between Michael Jackson and Elizabeth Taylor in a new binary autobiography of the two, titled Elizabeth and Michael: The Queen of Hollywood and the King of Pop -- A Love Story.
According to Bogle, Jackson was "transfixed" with Taylor and showered her with gifts -- and not just any gifts, diamonds! A 17-carat diamond ring, diamond bracelet, and diamond necklaces, to be precise. In return, she gave the King of Pop an elephant named Gypsy, which he kept at his Neverland Ranch in Los Olivos, California. Bogle writes the "odd couple" were like two kids, spending their time watching Disney movies and sharing tea with a chimpanzee.
In their 30-year friendship, the two entertainment legends shared an intense, emotional connection, which Bogle explores and analyzes in his book. They also shared similar triumphs and tribulations -- both, for example, were child stars who grew up in the spotlight and saw their family troubles unfold publicly.
"Loving Michael seemed to have given Elizabeth another chance in life, and in turn, it gave her life another dimension," Bogle writes. "Loving Elizabeth had given Michael a chance to be a kid again and also a man of the world."
Here's an exclusive excerpt from the book:
Getting Jackson to the Nightingale Hospital was an ordeal.  Once the flight touched ground in England, everything had to be done rapidly. The last thing anyone wanted was for the media to learn what was happening. Customs and immigration officials apparently checked documents on board. Two rented mini-buses stood on the tarmac, ready for the passengers, which included Taylor, Fortensky and Michael's physician David Forecast. Bodyguard Steve Tarling was assigned to quickly get Jackson off the flight and into a mini-bus. "He was sitting alone and seemed the  be asleep. A red tartan blanket was wrapped over his legs and a black hat was titled over his eyes," recalled Tarling. "Michael, you have to get off now," Elizabeth said as she shook him awake. But it wasn't easy.


The apple certainly doesn't fall far from the tree in Candace Cameron Bure's family.
Just weeks after sharing pics of her look-alike daughter, Natasha, the Fuller House star posted a pic of herself posing with her father and mother, who looks a lot like the 40-year-old actress. "How cute are my mom and dad," she captioned the family photo on Monday.
EXCLUSIVE: Candace Cameron Bure on Fuller House's 'Generations' of Fans and Her Teenage Crush
Meanwhile, Natasha, who looks like she could be the sister of her age-defying mother, was busy adding more modeling shots to her portfolio. The 18-year-old was giving off some major summer vibes as she posed in front of a fancy pool while wearing big sunglasses and a matching choker.
Earlier this month, Bure shared another stunning modeling shot of her daughter in celebration of her birthday. "It's hard to believe this one is mine," she Instagrammed. "Happy 18th birthday @natashabure!! Mama loves you."
Looks like Drake's long game has paid off.
After years of teasing fans about their close relationship, Drake and Rihanna are "definitely a couple," a source close to Rihanna tells ET.
"They are fully dating," the source says. "No one really knows how long they have been 'official' -- they just decided to let it become a thing instead of hiding it from everyone. They're happy."
The pair flew to Miami, Florida, on Monday night, the source adds, where Drake has scheduled shows at the AmericanAirlines Arena on Tuesday and Wednesday night as part of his Summer Sixteen Tour.
Drake, 29, and Rihanna, 28, have definitely been spending plenty of quality time together recently. On Monday night, prior to their flight, the superstars stepped out for a dinner date at Nobu in New York City. An eyewitness tells ET that Rihanna stayed at Drake’s hotel overnight on Sunday after winning the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the MTV Video Music Awards.
The "Hotline Bling" rapper boldly declared his love for Rihanna onstage at the VMAs on Sunday, when he showed up at the end of the show to present her with the big award. He also touched on their longtime friendship.
"The first time I met Robyn Fenty was in 2005," he shared, recalling Rihanna's very first music video shoot for "Pon de Replay" in his native Toronto. "I was introduced to her as the kid who played background music at the restaurant as people ate their dinner."
"She's someone I've been in love with since I was 22 years old," he later gushed, prompting big cheers from the audience. "She's one of my best friends in the world. All my adult life, I've looked up to her, even though she's younger than me. She's a living, breathing legend in our industry."
And the flirtiness between the two didn't stop there. Drake -- who also bought a billboard sign for Rihanna ahead of her MTV honor and later shared a kissing selfie of the two -- only had eyes for the "Love On the Brain" singer at a VMA after-party at Up & Down nightclub, a source told ET.
"They walked in together and never left each other's side all night," the source said. "He was so attentive to her. His eyes were never off her. They were necking a lot. They would hug and he would kiss into her neck."
Watch the video below for more on Drake and Rihanna's romantic NYC dinner date.
Pretty Little Liars may be ending, but we’ve still got to get through tonight's shocking summer finale!
Now that we've already swooned over the episode's most heartfelt confession, it's time to focus on the most cutthroat moment: Rosewood's next victim.
"It's definitely one of our craziest finales ever," executive producer Marlene King spilled to ET's cameras earlier this month at the Television Critics Association press tour. "In terms of what the big set piece is and what the danger is, it's one of those situations where you feel like heads are gonna roll."
MORE: 'Pretty Little Liars' Is Officially Ending After Season 7: 'We're Saying Goodbye'
"Heads will roll in this one," she coyly stressed again. Hmm… what an interesting way to phrase that one, Mar!
In addition to her head-turning tease, King confirmed that there will be "at least one" death in tonight's finale and it's guaranteed to add to her grand plan to make this the "deadliest season ever."
"We can confirm that there will be a death and, in addition to that, the fate of several other characters definitely sort of hangs out there," King said.
EXCLUSIVE! 'Pretty Little Liars' Finale Sneak Peek: Caleb Confesses His Love for Hanna
Star Troian Bellisario echoed her showrunner's sentiments that this episode will definitely cause uproar within the fandom.
"With the finale, it was a really dangerous situation and it definitely left a lot of characters in a precarious situation. You don’t know what's going to happen to them afterwards," Bellisario said, foreshadowing a sure-to-be insane cliffhanger.
Pretty Little Liars' summer finale airs tonight at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Freeform.
Dying for more PLL goodness? Press play on our exclusive sneak peek below to watch Caleb confess his love for Hanna!
Gisele Bundchen continues to out-earn every supermodel in the world.
The 36-year-old mother of two tops Forbes' list of the world's highest-paid models, earning a whopping $30.5 million -- that's $20 million more than the number two highest-earning model, Adriana Lima.
Kendall Jenner and Karlie Kloss tied for third place, grossing $10 million, while Jenner's pal Gigi Hadid rounded out the top five list, earning $9 million, tying with Rosie Huntington-Whiteley.
Kloss doubled her earnings since 2015, and worked on more campaigns than any other model on the list. Meanwhile, Jenner is the biggest gainer year over year, with an earnings increase of 150 percent.
According to Forbes, the top 20 highest-paid models earned a total of $154 million between June 1, 2015, and June 1, 2016, before fees and taxes, and have close to 200 million Instagram followers combined.
Bundchen -- who's made more money than any other model since 2002 -- managed to top the list despite announcing her retirement from the runway two years ago. She did, however, return to the catwalk during the Summer Olympic celebrations in her home country of Brazil. Here's a look at her epic return to the runway:
Ryan Lochte is ready to put his headline-making incident in Rio behind him.
The 32-year-old Olympic swimmer appeared on Good Morning America on Tuesday, when he acknowledged that he "made a very big mistake" when he claimed he was robbed in Rio. He also made it clear that he's more than ready to move on from the scandal. Lochte will be back in the public eye when he competes in season 23 of Dancing With the Stars.
"You know, I think that it was still hours after the incident and I’m not one to make excuses, but I was still intoxicated, was going through the motions of having a gun pulled on me," Lochte answered when asked directly why he lied.  "I’m human.  I made a mistake and that's something I'm going to have to live with."
Lochte insisted that the only part of the story that he over exaggerated was having a gun pulled to his head, and that reports that he and three of his teammates -- Gunnar Bentz,  Jack Conger, and Jimmy Feigen -- vandalized a bathroom were "absurd." The swimmer also offered to pay Feigen's $10,800 fine if Feigen will allow him to.
Still, Lochte was defensive when asked about those who say he "embarrassed [his] country."
"I think it's everyone blowing this way out of proportion," he said. "I think that's what happened. And you know, like I said, I did lie about that one part, and I take full responsibility. I'm human. I made a mistake -- a very big mistake. And it's something that I learned from, and I know that that will never happen again."
Lochte says he actually signed up for Dancing With the Stars before the incident in Rio, and that he has a "great team" dealing with all his current legal issues that might interrupt his ability to compete.
"We're just trying to get this over with," he said. "I mean, it's been dragged out way too long and the media's taken this to a whole new level. And I just want to put this behind me and move on, and move forward. And I think the rest of the world wants that too."
Lochte says it's the support of his fans, friends, and family that have kept him going through an emotional time. The 12-time Olympic medalist has been dropped by four sponsors, and has also been the butt of jokes -- most recently, when Jimmy Fallon impersonated him on Sunday night at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards.
"The past two weeks have been the lowest in my life," he acknowledges. "It's been really hard, but the fans, my family, my friends -- they've all been really positive, keeping me going. And that is what I want to do. And  this is perfect with the show. I want to put that behind me."
"I'm never one to dwell on the past," he adds. "I just want to move forward. I want the whole world to move forward."
In his first interview about his Olympic scandal earlier this month with Matt Lauer, Lochte called his behavior in Rio "immature."
Watch below:
Teyana Taylor inspired everyone to hit the gym after starring in Kanye West's "Fade" music video, but the breakout triple-threat star says that she herself doesn't really work out.
Taylor -- who just gave birth eight months ago to her daughter Junie, who also stars in the music video -- insists that all she does to keep in shape is exactly what fans saw in the music video: she dances. "You’re going to gag right now because I would really be lying to you if I told you that I worked out," she admits to Vogue. "I keep it really real, I don’t like to lie and say I work out, three, four times a week. All I do is dance. All I do is dance."
West's music video muse also shares some of her dancing aspirations.
"Sometime this year, I want to make a DVD. For real. Most people are selfish," she quips. "They’re trying to keep all their secrets to themselves. But I really want to do it to help out all of the ladies."
As for her diet, the 25-year-old confesses that she doesn't always make the healthiest choices when it comes to food. "My diet sucks," she adds. "I eat pizza, fried chicken, macaroni; I don’t eat vegetables. But I dance!"
Taylor had a big role in her choreography in the music video, and reveals that one of the moves was meant for someone else. "The dance scene at the very, very end, maybe the last eight counts that I did; me and one of my homeboys Matthew Pasterisa actually made that choreography for Beyoncé for when the 'End of Time' came out," she shares. "She loved it but she wound up not being able to use it because she was pregnant, but back then the world didn’t know. All this time that choreography was just sitting there. And as soon as I was freestyling it just came out naturally."
MORE: Teyana Taylor Gets Engaged to NBA Star Iman Shumpert During Their Baby Shower!
Fans were left with a lot of questions following the music video -- including the meaning behind the flock of sheep and Taylor's cat face -- but the "Fade" star doesn't have a lot of answers.
"[West] was just like, 'I’m going to put you in this cat face. It’s going to be chic,'" she recalls. "The whole video is deeper than people probably processed it. So I feel like it’s up for the people to figure it out. I get it, but I want them to really figure it out and really understand what’s going on. And for them to understand, they’re going to have to watch it 20, and 30, and 40 times."
Forbidden liaisons! Before The Bachelorette finale aired and the world knew that JoJo Fletcher picked Jordan Rodgers to be her one and only, the couple had to stay apart for months. And though they got to see each other once every two weeks, it proved to be too hard for the pair to remain separate.
"There was one time, we were in L.A. for a couple days -- separate -- so, I borrowed a buddy's Halloween costume, a mullet wig and a trucker hat," Rodgers told ET earlier this month. "And took an Uber to her hotel and was kinda sneaking around a little bit."
"Our producers don't know!" JoJo added. "We didn't get caught! You can't be mad!"
On Monday, Rodgers shared a photo of the infamous meetup on Instagram, writing, “The last time we were in Chico together you might have met our alter egos Goldie and Ricky…oops #sneaky #sorryABC.”
In the hilarious pic, Rodgers is wearing a Cleveland Indians hat with a long, curly black wig and an ‘80s-style zip-up jacket. His future bride is sporting a blonde curly wig with a purple princess hat.
Tuesday marks Rodgers’ 28th birthday. The ESPN correspondent celebrated with his lady love – this time out in the open – and she documented their cute exchange on Snapchat.
“Happy birthday! What are you doing? It’s your birthday!” she squeals as her fiancé laughs.
From sitcom stars to models to Olympians, Dancing With the Stars is gearing up for its 23rd season, with a new batch of celebrities ready to hit the dance floor.
On Tuesday, Good Morning America revealed who would face off for the coveted mirror ball trophy, though ET was able to confirm in advance this season's contestants.
Derek Hough, Cheryl Burke, Maksim and Val Chmerkovskiy, Emma Slater, Witney Carson, Sharna Burgess, Artem Chigvintsev, Lindsay Arnold, Sasha Farber, Gleb Savchenko and Allison Holker are the dancing pros that will be competing, along with newcomer Jenna Johnson.
EXCLUSIVE: Kym Johnson Says She's Done With Dancing With the Stars After Marrying Robert Herjavec -- 'What a Way to End'
ET also confirmed that actress and singer Jana Kramer, actress Marilu Henner, former Texas Governor Rick Perry Vanilla Ice, retired football star Calvin Johnson, Indy race car driver James Hinchcliffe have signed on for DWTS.
They join a celebrity cast that includes Olympians Laurie Hernandez and Ryan Lochte, Brady Bunch star Maureen McCormick, singer and songwriter Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds, model Amber Rose, actor Jake T. Austin and Little Woman: LA star Terra Jole.
MORE: Cheryl Burke Drops DWTS Bombshells, Says Maksim Chmerkovskiy Is a 'Good Kisser'
The stars have also been paired up with their pro partners:
Maksim Chmerkovskiy and Amber RoseVal Chmerkovskiy and Laurie Hernandez
Artem Chigvintsev and Maureen McCormick
Sasha Farber and Terra Jole
Derek Hough and Marilu Henner
Witney Carson and Vanilla Ice
Lindsay Arnold and Calvin Johnson
Jenna Johnson and Jake T. Austin
Allison Holker and Babyface
Sharna Burgess and James Hinchcliffe
Emma Slater and Rick Perry
Cheryl Burke and Ryan Lochte
Gleb Savchenko and Jana Kramer
Dancing With the Stars premieres Monday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Cheeky! Kylie Jenner dared to bare on Monday in some bootylicious Instagram pics. The 19-year-old cosmetics queen posed in jeans with strategic rips across the butt.
This isn’t the first time Kylie has shown off her famous backside. She recently traveled to Turks & Caicos to celebrate her 19th birthday with pals while sporting a slew of skimpy bikinis.
And she isn’t the only one in the family flaunting her curves. Kylie’s future sister-in-law, Blac Chyna, who is also the ex of her boyfriend, Tyga, recently posed for Paper magazine entirely nude.
The glowing maternity photos feature a long-haired, blonde Chyna covering up her breasts with her hands and cradling her baby bump.
MORE: Kim Kardashian Rocks Giant Coat Over Sexy All-White Ensemble for Date Night With Kanye West: Pics!
In a recent Facebook Live Q&A, Chyna and her fiancé, Rob Kardashian, said they’d let Kylie babysit their future child.
“She could babysit the baby and King at the same time,” Chyna said.
The Smiths are at it again! In their first joint magazine cover, Willow and Jaden Smith pose together for Interview in a high fashion shoot and sit down for a Q&A with family friend, Pharrell Williams.
The two teens opened up about a wide range of topics from generational discrepancies to where they see themselves in 10 years (Hint: It involves the mountains and dead squirrels).
The two artists in their own right noted that sometimes they feel misunderstood by judgmental adults.
“It seems like they don’t understand our thought process. Or, like, things have happened in the past that they’re still mad about,” Willow, 15, said.
But one set of grown-ups who completely understand these two are their famous parents – Will and Jada Pinkett Smith. In fact, the siblings couldn’t be more proud to be the actors’ children.
“My parents are definitely my biggest role models. And that’s where me and Willow both pull all of our inspiration from to change the world,” Jaden, 18, said.
Willow agreed, adding, “Growing up, all I saw was my parents trying to be the best people they could be, and people coming to them for wisdom, coming to them for guidance, and them not putting themselves on a pedestal, but literally being face-to-face with these people and saying, ‘I’m no better than you, but the fact that you’re coming to me to reach some sort of enlightenment or to shine a light on something, that makes me feel love and gratitude for you’… What my parents have given to me is not anything that has to do with money or success or anything that society says people should be focusing on – it’s something spiritual that only certain people can grasp and accept.”
Part of the gifts the kids have received from their parents is a strong sense of self-confidence. Much of that shows itself in their bold fashion choices.
“When we were old enough to start dressing ourselves, my mom was like, ‘Are you sure you want to go out like that?’ And me and Jaden would be like, ‘You know what? Yes.’ And she’d totally accept it. I feel like that’s where most of our confidence comes from,” Willow recalled.
Jaden also noted that while they may be now known for their style, he and his sister used to be even more daring sartorialists.
“Nobody knows that Willow and I were much, much cooler before,” he insisted. “Like, before people were looking at the things that we were doing, we were so much more, like, method with fashion. We really went all the way. We went the extra mile on everything because there was no one looking at us. We’ve been through the roof, with ludicrous fashion ideas wince we were extremely young.”
Hilary and Haylie Duff got to spend lots of quality sister time together over the weekend. The actresses attended the wedding of mutual friends at the Ocean Club Fairmont Resort in Bermuda, and took the opportunity to enjoy some beach time.
“@erinlhaggerty you were the most beautiful bride! We love you,” Hilary, 28, captioned a black and white picture with the bride, her sister, and a pal.
The sisters wore bold printed ensembles for the picturesque wedding, posing with pals in a series of photos.
Later Haylie, 31, goofed off with her younger sis, sporting Snapchat’s duck face filter from their hotel room.
Both of the sisters also posted beachside photos in their bikinis. Haylie sported a white two-piece, while Hilary showed off some skin in a floral-printed bikini top.
In June, Hilary told Today.com that she doesn’t put pressures on herself to be in shape for swimsuit season.
"I don't care to look absolutely perfect in a bathing suit," she said at the time. "I'm a normal girl. I'm strong. I'm fit. I feel good about myself after I've had a baby."
MORE: Hilary Duff Says She's Not Worried About Looking 'Absolutely Perfect' in Swimsuits
Hilary has been extra busy lately as she films the next season of her TV Land comedy Younger with co-stars Sutton Foster and Nico Tortorella in NYC.
“My beautiful friends – beautiful on the inside and out @youngertv @nicotortorella @hilaryduff,” Foster captioned a selfie on set last week.
The VMAs may be over, but Kim Kardashian and Kanye West are still living that New York life! The couple was spotted going out to dinner solo after a day of fun with their two kids on Monday.
Kim stepped out wearing a busty white top, short white denim skirt, strappy pink heels, and an oversized blush coat that billowed behind her like a cape. Her hubby went casual in a navy sweatshirt, jeans, and Yeezy sneakers.
Earlier in the day, they took their children, Saint and North, to Serendipity III in Manhattan where Kim indulged in the restaurant’s signature Frozen Hot Chocolate, Snapchatting a picture of the drink to her many followers.
She also revealed that the famous family is currently staying at a swanky Airbnb while in NYC.
“Just waking up to the most amazing Airbnb,” Kim said on Snapchat while seemingly lying naked in bed. “Thank you guys so much for this complimentary stay here in New York. Obsessed! You guys, Airbnb hooked us up! You’ve got to see this view. Thank you guys, thank you Airbnb for this complimentary stay. And Airbnb even got me my own glam room!”
The couple is enjoying some down time after a busy night on Sunday at the MTV Video Music Awards. Kim presented Britney Spears’ triumphant performance while Kanye debuted his new “Fade” music video.
Watch the video below for more of the pair’s VMA antics!
James Corden learned the hard way that working out at Kanye West’s gym isn’t the best plan. In a spoof that parodies the rapper’s new “Fade” music video, the British Late Late Show host tries to get some exercise.
Unfortunately he’s blocked by a half-naked Teyana Taylor, dancing around the gym in her sports bra and underwear, which is featured in the real video.
“Sorry, do you mind, because it’s sort of a public gym,” Corden asks a gyrating Taylor as he lifts weights. “We all have to work out at the same… wow.”
At one point, Taylor whips her hair, and sweat comes spraying onto Corden.
“I’m sorry, no one needs that much oil!” he declares.
And when Taylor poses in an animal form surrounded by sheep, Corden is quick to point out the “No Sheep in Gym” sign.
“A lot of us only joined this gym because of its zero sheep policy!” he quips.
West debuted the video at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday night after giving one of his infamous speeches.
"I am Kanye West, and that feels really great to say, especially this year," he told the crowd at New York’s Madison Square Garden. “I came here to present my new video, but before I do that… I’m gonna talk.”
Taylor has become an overnight sensation thanks to her toned body in the music video.
Kim Kardashian tweeted, “You guys!!! @TEYANATAYLOR has the best body ever !! Like no joke and she just had a baby!!!!”
I try to say goodbye and I choke…on tears… So. many. tears.
Bachelor in Paradise was all about the goodbyes on Monday night; three women voluntarily walked off the show! Twins Emily and Haley Ferguson and former Bachelorette hopeful Caila Quinn all said goodbye, complete with waterworks. First, the twins departed during the rose ceremony. Through sobs, Haley said, “[Emily and I] have been here for five weeks now and unfortunately, we can’t say we feel like it would be fair to pass out our roses this week.”
“We came into this together and we want to leave together,” Emily sniffled back. With that confession, their two roses were left on the pedestal, sending Canadian Daniel (no!!!) Ryan (who??) and Carl (seriously – WHO?!) home. It’s a rose-red bloodbath, Bachelor Nation!
Caila also teared up during the ceremony, but it wouldn’t be long before her own departure. At episode’s end, Ashley Iaconetti was still trying to divide Caila and Jared Haibon. Caila couldn’t take the stress anymore and removed herself from Paradise. 

“It’s hard to get to know somebody with someone else who loves them here,” Caila said as salty streaks streamed down her gorgeous face. “If I just can’t grow in my relationship, then why am I here? … I don’t feel comfortable whatsoever, and I just want to go home.”
“There’s so much baggage involved,” the 24-year-old added. “And it’s walking around with red lipstick.” A rose-red-lipstick bloodbath, Bachelor Nation!
The show picks up Tuesday night, when viewers will discover if Jared followed Caila out of Paradise, or stayed behind with Ashley and her ruby pout.
Have Drake and Rihanna found love in a hopeless place? After the “One Dance” rapper, 29, professed his love for the “Work” singer, 28, at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday, he hit the town with his longtime collaborator and rumored girlfriend on Monday.
Rihanna was spotted out in Manhattan on her way to Nobu wearing a belted white mini-dress and strappy brown heels. Drake went casual in khaki pants, white sneakers, and a leather jacket with yellow detailing.
An eyewitness tells ET that Rihanna stayed at Drake’s hotel overnight and through to dinner the next day after receiving the coveted Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award. The two shared a sweet moment onstage when Drake presented RiRi with her award, and the PDA didn’t stop there.

The source adds, “He is so into her.”
Drake’s declaration of love during the VMAs wasn’t the first time he’s expressed his affection for Rihanna, but it may be the most swoon-worthy. The Canadian rapper told the crowd that he had been in love with RiRi since he was 22 years old before praising her talents in the industry.
He also took to Instagram to share a sweet kissing selfie, writing, “This is a night for us all to be thankful for what you have done for us! You have affected so many of our lives in the best way possible. Tonight we celebrate you! @badgalriri.”
With his soulful singing and easy-on-the-eyes good looks, Sam Hunt makes fans swoon onstage and off. But unfortunately, he’s officially off the market!
Speculation ramped up a few weeks ago, when Hunt posted a photo of a mystery woman to his Instagram account. Now, a source confirms to ET that the country crooner is back with one of his exes.
The woman in the Instagram pic popped up again in a video Hunt posted a few days ago, though her face is still concealed. Fans on the Internet have speculated that she is Hunt’s ex, Hannah Lee Fowler, widely believed to be the inspiration for his debut studio album, Montevallo.

Earlier this year, the country star opened up to ET’s Sophie Schillaci about taking his parents as his dates to the GRAMMY Awards.
"They're just those kinds of parents. They've been coming to everything that I've been doing since I was young," Hunt gushed, adding that the event holds special meaning for he and his manager, Brad Belanger. "[He] has been there from the beginning. He's like me, he was waiting tables about five years ago and I was doing odd jobs."
See more in the video below.
EXCLUSIVE: Sam Hunt Reveals His GRAMMYS Date and Prepping For His Duet with 'Phenomenal' Carrie Underwood
Arrow actor Colton Haynes gave an emotional acceptance speech while receiving the Human Rights Campaign's Visibility Award in Seattle on Saturday night.
"I'm asked to play so many different roles as an actor, but tonight I can actually be myself for the first time," he said. "It feels incredible." 
The 28-year-old was visibly moved and holding back tears throughout his acceptance for the award, given for his bravery in going public about his sexuality earlier this year and his advocacy since then for the LGBT community. 
Haynes addressed his decision to come out publicly in the speech. "My coming out was a bit splashy for many people," he said. "That's just how entertainment works. It makes a bigger deal out of everyone’s personal decisions."
But, the actor said, he never made a decision to be gay. "That came just as naturally as the color of my eyes."
The heartthrob said he didn't feel like he deserved the award and acknowledged the trailblazers in the LGBT movement who came before him. "Instead I'll accept this award as a promise," he said.
"I'm making [the promise] to the next generation of lesbians and gay men, bisexuals and transgender youth and I hope my example will give them the confidence and hope to be who they are, as well."
Haynes shared his thoughts afterwards to his 5 million followers on Instagram.
"Thk u @humanrightscampaign for the incredible honor last night. I couldn't hold back the emotion. I don't feel especiall [sic] deserving of this recognition. We all know there are many others who have come before me to blaze the trail as LGBT advocates & role models. I am walking in their shoes and following their lead. This is for all of my incredible fans & hope I can inspire y'all to be yourselves even though I hid for so long," he wrote. 
Check out what Haynes had to say about growing up gay and keeping his sexuality a secret in Hollywood in the video below. 
Nyle DiMarco is taking a cue from Magic Mike for his next gig: stripping down as a celebrity guest host with the scantily clad Chippendales crew in Las Vegas!
The America's Next Top Model winner will be the troupe's first ever deaf host, and the show will incorporate elements of American Sign Language into the performance during DiMarco's limited engagement run, starting September 22.
"I will be teaching some ladies in the audience some sign language," the 27-year-old model confirmed.
DiMarco, who already proved he has moves by winning season 22 of Dancing with the Stars, said fans can expect big things from his Chippendales appearance. "It's pretty much like a Broadway show, but in Las Vegas," he said. "And to headline something like this, to host it in Las Vegas, is such an honor."
While DiMarco is looking forward to his hosting duties, he's also looking forward to the "cultural exchange" aspect of working with his fellow performers. "They're going to learn a lot from me, as a deaf person," he said.
That learning experience is already evident, as Chippendales James Davis and Mikey Perez welcomed DiMarco to the team at a recent photoshoot, with a few words of ASL they had learned.
"We've been preparing for you to come in. So we've got our chart up and we've been working on our names," Perez said in a behind-the-scenes video for the photoshoot.
DiMarco was the first completely deaf contestant and winner on both ANTM and Dancing with the Stars. He is an advocate for the deaf community and has begun teaching ASL on his Instagram account.
Check out DiMarco's moves and the emotional moment he took home the DWTS Mirrorball trophy in the clip below.
The MTV Video Music Awards aren't exactly a traditional awards ceremony, so it shouldn't be a surprise that when it came to Sunday night's white carpet, plenty of celebrities had some extra fun playing up to photogs.
That was especially true for the duos who attended the show in New York City, whether they were romantic couples or just good pals.
Now that all of the Moonmen have been handed out, we have one last award of our own: the nine cutest couples from the 2016 VMAs.
1. Beyoncé and Blue Ivy
Nothing's sweeter than a mother-daughter date, especially when that duo is Queen Bey and her adorable offspring. Little Blue, 4, nearly stole the spotlight from her famous mom, sweetly holding on to Beyoncé's hand while rocking a nearly $11,000 Mishcka Aoki gown, complete with gold tulle fit for a princess.
Plus, let's not forget that it was at this very awards show five years ago that the "Freedom" singer announced she was pregnant with her first child by revealing her baby bump on stage following her performance. It all comes back around!
2. Nicki Minaj and Meek Mill
The rappers turned the VMAs into their very own prom photo shoot! The two couldn't keep their hands off each other, with Mill sweetly wrapping his arms around Minaj, who looked not just stunning but madly in love with her beau.
3. Kim Kardashian and Kanye West
Before gracing us with an epic (more than) four-minute speech and that very NSFW "Fade" music video, West took to the white carpet with his wife, where the two posed in a stance that has become so familiar, we nearly thought it was a wax figure version of the loved-up couple.
4. Nev Schulman and Laura Perlongo
We know most soon-to-be parents are excited to welcome a first child, but the Catfish star and his fiancée really took the love over-the-top! Perlongo dared to bare her baby bump, going shirtless under an olive green bomber jacket. Both a bodychain and Schulman got up-close-and-personal with her burgeoning belly. As surprised as we were by the daring ensemble, it was pretty adorable to see such a crazy in love couple.
5. Jennelle Evans and David Eason
It was baby bump overload at the VMAs! Just days after officially announcing she was pregnant with kiddo No. 3 -- a baby girl who will be named Ensley -- the Teen Mom 2 star debuted her belly on the white carpet, where she and her fiancé couldn't help but share a sweet smooch for the cameras.
6. Ashley Graham and Justin Ervin
The Sports Illustrated swimsuit model proudly showed off her new 'do and her man. Fabulous? We think so.
7. Michael Phelps and Nicole Johnson
Fresh off his historic final Olympics run, the gold medal winner and his fiancée cuddled close together at the VMAs, where Phelps introduced Future's performance. Sadly for us, they left baby Boomer at home. 
8. Jenni "JWoww" Farley and Nicole "Snooki" Polizzi
Sure, these two aren't in a relationship, but they have been BFFs ever since their Jersey Shore days, and we adore their outspoken ways and deep-rooted friendship. The reality stars held hands while walking the carpet, where Farley opted for a revealing, sheer dress with plenty of cut-outs, while Polizzi channeled old school glamour in a sparkly silver sleeveless gown. Sorry, Roger and Jionni -- these two are ours for keeps!
9. Swizz Beatz and Alicia Keys
Could these two be any cuter? The "Girl on Fire" singer knows she's one lucky lady, sweetly tweeting about their VMA evening. "Night out with my #1," she wrote, adding winky face and heart-eye emojis.
Ashton Kutcher is keeping his daughter, Wyatt, as far away from the spotlight as possible.

“No,” Kutcher adamantly said, before clarifying that he’d be OK with it if she was old enough to make that decision. “When it is a choice that she is making, then I think it is fine. … As long as it’s not a choice that she is making, it is my job to protect her from all this nonsense.”
It’s not a surprise that Kutcher would want to shield his daughter from the limelight. Since welcoming her into the world in 2014, he and Kunis have largely kept Wyatt away from the public eye.

“Mila comes into the bedroom and is like ‘Puppy peed on the stairwell,’ and I go ‘F**k,’ and I walk away like this and all of a sudden, I hear behind me, ‘F**k,’” Kutcher recalled. “I turn around [and] she legitimately is like, ‘F**k,’ and I was like, ‘Fox. I said fox. Papa said fox.’”
After some back and forth, Kutcher said he finally persuaded his 1-year-old that he had actually said “fox.” “She was like, ‘F**k,’ and I was like, ‘No, fox. I said fox.’ And she’s like, ‘Fox.’ ‘Yes, that’s fox!’” he continued. “Fox is fine. You can go with fox all day.”
An early adopter of Twitter, Kutcher also took a moment to address the future of social media and the consequences of fame, amid Leslie Jones’ recent website hack and Twitter hate.

“Fame is not for the weary,” Kutcher added. “The minute you start believing the good things that people say, you have to believe in the bad things that people say -- and they say both. If you want to stand on the public stage, you [have] to be ready to get booed.”
Kutcher admitted that he’s made plenty of mistakes when it comes to speaking his mind on social media, but never had “bad intentions.”

The Back Porch Revival Show benefitted The Native Fund, a nonprofit organization co-founded by Kutcher and former NFL player Dallas Clark, that assists Iowans in need.
For more on ET’s exclusive sit-down with Kutcher, where he reveals his dream country star casting for Netflix’s The Ranch, watch the video below.
Congrats to Guy Pearce and Carice van Houten, who have welcomed a baby boy!
Pearce tweeted the happy news on Monday morning, sharing “A cute little package arrived and told us his name's Monte Pearce. We think we're gonna keep him. Placenta smoothie anyone?”
Van Houten, who stars as the “Red Woman” Melisandre on Game of Thrones, retweeted Pearce’s announcement, adding a series of emoji, including a baby, roller coaster, martini, and of course, heart eyes for their new bundle of joy.
The pair announced they were expecting back in March, with a few good-natured tweets about van Houten’s slightly sinister GoT character.
“Ok. I'm ready for your shadowbaby jokes,” the 39-year-old actress teased fans on Twitter.
“Nothing like the prospect of a shadowbaby to change your mind about becoming a Father!!” Pearce, 48, replied, before sharing sincere thanks to fans for all the well wishes.
Baby Monte is the first child for both stars. Pearce was previously married to psychologist Kate Mestitz from 1997-2015.
Even pop stars can fangirl every now and then.
Bebe Rexha celebrated a huge career highlight during her first trip to the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday when Britney Spears covered her part in the infectious single "Me, Myself & I" with two social media posts.
First, the 26-year-old singer-songwriter tweeted the "flushed" emoji of a blushing, wide-eyed face. Later, she shared an Instagram photo of herself with the 34-year-old diva backstage at Madison Square Garden.
"Amazing moment hearing one of my idols perform 'MM&I' tonight," Rexha wrote in the caption.
Likewise, Rexha made an impression on Spears, who also tweeted about their encounter.
"It was so great meeting you last night, @BebeRexha!" she wrote. "Thank you for letting me sing your amazing song with @G_Eazy!"
Spears performed the hit alongside 27-year-old rapper G-Eazy, who clearly enjoyed the chemistry they shared on stage. Their sultry performance, which included a run through of Spears' Glory hit, "Make Me...," was filled with grinding and nearly got too hot for TV when Spears went in for a full-on crotch grab.
While she's certainly no prude, even Spears had a line, and she drew it when G-Eazy seemingly went in for a kiss only to be rejected.
Watch the video for more on the performance.
Marc Anthony is deep in mourning.
The GRAMMY winner broke down crying on Sunday night after paying tribute to legendary Mexican singer-songwriter Juan Gabriel -- who died at age 66 in Santa Monica, California on Sunday -- during his concert at Radio City Music Hall in New York City.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
A concertgoer tells ET that Anthony was incredibly emotional and in tears after giving a speech in memory of Gabriel, recalling how the first time he saw the best-selling Latin artist perform was on the very same stage he played that night.
Anthony then asked the audience for help singing one of Gabriel's classic songs, "Abrázame Muy Fuerte."
"There was not a dry eye in the audience during this performance," the concertgoer shares.
Anthony also took to Instagram to pay his respects for Gabriel, commending his legacy and crediting the performer for inspiring his career.
Gabriel's death is especially felt in his home country of Mexico, where, after news of his passing broke, mourners came together across the country, including at the statue in his honor in Mexico City, to pay their respects.
If you thought you caught sight of a few familiar faces during Nick Jonas' "Bacon" performance at the 2016 MTV VMAs on Sunday night, you'd be right!
Joe Jonas, 27, put in a surprise appearance during his younger brother's live performance, taking a selfie with Nick while eating burgers and fries at the Tick Tock Diner with his band, DNCE. 
Other celeb cameos in the performance ultimately also included the likes of supermodel and "Toothbrush" video co-star Ashley Graham, New York Giants wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr., rappers A$AP Ferg and Fabolous and Instagram stars Joanne the Scammer and The Fat Jewish as well as the single's featured artist, Ty Dolla $ign.
Ahead of the awards show, Nick teased to ET on the white carpet that there would be "some special brother bonding, in a sense."
It was a special night for the brothers. In addition to Nick's star-studded performance, Joe's band DNCE was nominated -- and won -- the Best New Artist category.
"It's the best feeling in the world," the 23year-old singer said of sharing the night with Joe. "It's really unique to be in a spot where we're both here separately but also together, in a sense. I'm proud of [DNCE]. This year they've had has been unbelievable."
And will we see more collaboration between the two younger Jonases in the future?
"Never count anything out," Nick said. "We obviously like each other quite a bit. We're roommates. We just got matching tattoos." 
Yep, the JoBros got inked together! Nick posted a pic of the new body art to Snapchat, which showed two arrows on the back of their arms that point towards each other. 
The "Chains" singer was pretty excited about what he and Joe deemed a "pre-party." In addition to the tats, Nick told ET the duo got manicures and pedicures as well.
For more of Nick rocking the house, check out this video of his live set at Las Vegas' Intrigue nightclub earlier this month.
Derek Hough is ready to return to the dance floor!
The six-time Dancing With the Stars champion took to Instagram on Monday to officially announce his season 23 return to ABC’s reality competition series, days after ET confirmed that he and his sister, Julianne Hough, would be back as a pro and judge, respectively.

Hough, who took the spring season off after winning season 21 with partner Bindi Irwin, was originally set to play the lead in the Broadway revival of Singin’ in the Rain, but unforeseen circumstances caused a delay in plans.
“This fall, I was planning on being immersed in rehearsals for Singin’ in the Rain on Broadway, but due to successes of the shows currently running, that project has been delayed because there simply isn’t a theatre [sic] available,” Hough explained, adding that the musical “is still very much part of my future plans.”

It’s going to be a busy several months for Hough, who will continue to prep for NBC’s live Dec. 8 musical telecast of Hairspray, in which he plays Corny Collins. “It’s going to be a challenge that I’m looking forward to,” he said, teasing even more “exciting projects” in 2017.
ET can also report that longtime DWTS pro and two-time champ Cheryl Burke will be returning to vie for the mirror ball trophy, after last competing on season 19 with partner Antonio Sabato Jr. in 2014.

ET can exclusively confirm that Jana Kramer, Marilu Henner, former Texas Governor Rick Perry and Vanilla Ice are the latest celebrities headed to DWTS. Retired football star Calvin Johnson and Indy race car driver James Hinchcliffe are also on tap for the fall season, ET has learned.
They join a celebrity cast that includes Olympians Laurie Hernandez and Ryan Lochte, Brady Bunch star Maureen McCormick, Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds, Amber Rose, Jake T. Austin and Little Woman: LA star Terra Jole.
The full cast and pairings will be revealed on Good Morning America on Tuesday. ABC does not comment on casting.

Good call, Chrissy Teigen -- this was a match made in heaven!
After the 30-year-old supermodel and Olympian Aly Raisman agreed on Twitter last week that they should be BFFs, the 20-year-old gold medal gymnast paid a visit to Teigen and John Legend ahead of the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday.
EXCLUSIVE: Gabby Douglas Sits Out VMAs After 'Allergic Reaction' Lands Her in Hospital
"It's happening!" Teigen exclaimed on Snapchat.
The most adorable part was that the gold medalist got some quality time in with Teigen and Legend’s adorable 4-month-old daughter, Luna, who even helped her get ready for the VMAs.

"Getting ready before the VMA's!!" Raisman shared on Instagram. "@johnlegend teaching my bro @brettraisman to put on a tie! Baby Luna helping me decide how to do my hair and makeup. @chrissyteigen."
MORE: Aly Raisman Celebrates Her Return to the U.S. With 'Aly Raisman Day'
Legend teaching Raisman's brother Brett to tie a tie is a joy we'll be holding onto for quite some time.
Of course, the star-studded evening didn't end there for Raisman and her "Final Five" teammates, who were able to meet Kanye and Kim Kardashian West, as well as freaking Beyonce when they presented Queen Bey with the award for Best Female Video. The gymnasts were all stoked, but the look on 16-year-old Laurie Hernandez's face pretty much says it all.
MORE: The Final Five Play 'Hungry Hungry Humans' on 'The Tonight Show'
Sadly, the Final Five was just four, as Gabby Douglas had to skip the show to go to the hospital.
Raisman told ET that Douglas was hospitalized for an "allergic reaction," adding, "It's a little bit swollen, but we hope she can get better soon because we wish she could be here with us."
Watch the video below for more.
Blac Chyna is trying to break the Internet, just like her future sister-in-law Kim Kardashian.

Adorning the mag’s September issue, which celebrates “1,000 Beautiful People,” Chyna lovingly cradles her growing baby bump while wearing a gold jewel headband and minimal makeup. Other celebs getting their own September covers include Naomi Campbell, Fergie, DJ Khaled and Chloe x Halle.



“I hope when people think about Blac Chyna, they think of a mogul and entrepreneur, a mother and a bada** b***h,” she added.

She also spoke out about the double standards imposed on women and why she’s standing her ground on the matter.
“Stripper, slut, ho, all these things people portray us as – we wanted to start a movement, because we’re tired of this double standard where a guy can f*** 10 bitches and he’s the man,” Chyna said. “A woman does it and she’s a ho, she’s a slut. We wanted to push the barrier, to own it.”

Late last week, Chyna teased on Snapchat that she would be revealing the gender of her baby “soon” and recently, she shared her workout routine, which involves some weight training. Chyna revealed that she “started eating more clean and walking” during her pregnancy, captioning a video clip, “From 135 to 183 to 176.2.”
For more on Chyna’s pregnancy diet and workout regimen, watch the video below.
Ridiculous tabloid rumors comes with the territory for a Sports Illustrated cover model like Ashley Graham, and she cleared up one piece of gossip about her at SI's inaugural Summer of Swim Fan Festival in Coney Island, New York, on Sunday.
"The craziest rumor I heard is that I lost like half my weight and I turned into a size 6," Graham told ET. "Honey, these hips are a size 14, and they are not going anywhere."
Graham looked flawless in a red dress and strappy heels while signing autographs for fans and playing games like corn hole, but she wished she had opted for a more bohemian look like her cohorts.
"So Hannah [Ferguson] got the memo to wear the beach [gear]," Graham said. "I got the 'Let's go out and be sexy' memo, so I wish I was wearing hers."
In addition to Ferguson, Graham was joined in the white sand by her fellow models Chrissy Teigen -- who made an appearance with husband John Legend and their newborn baby, Luna -- Hannah Jeter, Kate Bock, Samantha Hoopes, Mia Kang and Barbara Palvin.
Leonardo DiCaprio's new love, Nina Agdal, was also present, and she revealed to ET that the hardest part of being a model is "being alone and not being able to eat pasta every day."
Just hours after speaking to us on the Brooklyn beach, we caught up with Graham again at the MTV Video Music Awards, where she was rocking a much shorter 'do on the white carpet.
"I felt like my sexy was connected to my hair," Graham said at the awards show. "I cut it off and was like, 'Damn! I look good!'"
Check out the video below for shots of the 2016 Sports Illustrated Swimsuit Issue.
Ashton Kutcher lent a helping hand to Thomas Rhett during a performance over the weekend, which might have been enough to give the actor the singing bug.
Kutcher, 38, sang the third verse of Garth Brooks' "Friends In Low Places" alongside Rhett, 26, at the Back Porch Revival show in Iowa on Saturday. The event benefitted the Native Fund, a nonprofit co-founded by Kutcher and former NFL player Dallas Clark, meant to assist Iowans in need.
"I have a secret passion for singing," Kutcher told ET's Sophie Schillaci, "although I've been relegated to an absolute understanding that I'm not world class."
While he might not be picking up GRAMMY wins anytime soon, Kutcher is winning brownie points with his 1-year-old daughter, Wyatt. Kutcher told us that he sometimes puts her to sleep with lullabies.
"I sing what I need to sing," he said. "'Wheels on the bus go round and round, round and round, round and round.' I've got that one down."
Rhett on the other hand is one of country music's biggest up-and-comers.
"I'm a 'Beer With Jesus' guy," Kutcher told ET, sharing his favorite Rhett songs. "I think that might be one of the greatest licks in country music ever ... I think he's such an honest song writer. I think he actually just truly writes what he feels and thinks, and I admire him for that."
Kutcher and Rhett weren't the only ones to take the stage at Iowa City's Kinnick Stadium for the event. Blake Shelton gave a headlining performance, which girlfriend Gwen Stefani watched via Periscope from her concert in California.
The Ranch actor had never met Shelton before Saturday's show, but the two could get to know each other well if Kutcher has anything to say about it.
"I'd have him on [The Ranch] in a second," Kutcher said. "I'll tell him that tonight."
The Netflix sitcom, which debuted earlier this year, was renewed for a second season. Check out the video below to see the mini That '70s Show reunion that happened at the show's screening.
Ice Road Truckers star Darrell Ward has died at age 52, a rep for the History Channel confirms to ET.
According to Ward's official Facebook page, the reality star was en route to Missoula, Montana, from The Great American Truck Show in Dallas, Texas, when the plane he was in crashed. Both he and the pilot died in the collision.
The Montana native wrapped up season 10 of the History Channel show earlier this year and had been greenlit just last weekend to film an additional season, which was supposed to take place in the winter of 2017. He was also set to begin filming a pilot for a new documentary-style show, which involved the recovery of plane wrecks.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost in Recent Years
"An investigation is ongoing and more information will be made available at a later time as the National Transportation Safety Board will be handling the investigation," said the Facebook post shared on Sunday.
The press release noted that the "things Darrell loved most were his family including his kids and grand-kids & trucking."
"When Darrell wasn't hitting the Ice Roads he would be back in Montana doing what [Darrell] loved best as a log hauler and occasionally helped local authorities fight forest fires," the note added. "...In his free time, Darrell enjoyed hunting, fishing, camping, dirt bike riding and all things outdoors. A self-proclaimed 'ADRENALINE JUNKIE', Darrell was up for any adventure. His motto, 'ANY ROAD, ANY LOAD' fits his personality perfectly."
The pilot was attempting to land at a small airstrip, but Missoula County sheriff's Capt. Bill Burt said "something went drastically wrong," with witnesses noting the plane went through a stand of trees, according to Fox News.
The History Channel released a statement to ET on Monday, saying, "We are saddened by the tragic loss of Darrell Ward, a beloved member of the HISTORY family. He will be greatly missed and our thoughts are with his family during this difficult time."
Meanwhile, family, friends, and the Facebook page admins thanked fans for their "overwhelming Love & Support during this difficult time."
Ward's daughter, Terra Ward, penned a sweet note in loving memory of her father, which was also posted to Facebook.
"...I know most of you know my dad as the Montana Legend as he is just that! But he's been the Montana Legend to me my whole life my everything Ice Road Truckers has been on for 5 year but he's been my dad for 21 and I cherished him!" she wrote. "I looked up to him he was my rock I called him everyday he taught me everything I know! My Daddy was the best man ever hands down... NO ONE can say they miss him as much as me and my brother hurt for him today!"
"I love everyone's support and I love you all so much you made my dad into he was and is! But he's a Son and Dad and a Grandpa he's my world!!" she continued. "And I love and miss him so much I can't even begin to explain it all... no Holiday No Birthday nothing will ever be the same with out his smart mouth there!! And I'm dying over here dreaming of a hug from him a you're going to be alright Pumpkin!"
Blue Ivy Carter absolutely slayed on the 2016 MTV VMA white carpet with her mom on Sunday, and her awards show fashion did not come cheap!
ET can confirm that Beyonce and Jay Z's 4-year-old daughter wore a Mischa Aoki "The Grand Royalle" gown, which runs for nearly $11,000 in her size.
The designer revealed that the floor-length dress, which featured a gold, metallic leatherette laser-cut bodice and matching 3-D flower applique that was "individually hand-sewn, one by one," was customized especially for Blue.
MORE: The Final Five Met Beyonce and Laurie Hernandez's Reaction Is the Absolute Best
"Beyonce has always been one of our most valued clients for many years," the designer said. "And we are thrilled to be able to work with Beyonce’s amazing team who came up with such an amazing concept for this VMAs event."
After shutting down the carpet together, Blue got to see her mom's absolutely incredible VMA performance, which included a satisfyingly lengthy medley of Lemonade songs.
Watch the video below to see why Queen Bey -- who also took home "Video of the Year" -- is on top of her game.
Ariana Grande and Mac Miller certainly have no problem showing off their new relationship.
The pair attended the Republic Records MTV Video Music Awards after-party at Vandal restaurant in New York City on Monday night, where the two engaged in plenty of PDA, an eyewitness tells ET. The two got comfortable at a VIP table, sitting on a loveseat together.
They were "very cozy and kissing each other," the eyewitness says. "They are not hiding their affection for each other at all."
Grande also sat on Miller's lap, giving him a kiss on the lips as he put his arm around her. The two later shared a few dances, with the "Problem" singer dancing on the rapper's lap at one point, the eyewitness notes.
The pair didn't seem to mind people watching, either, partying alongside Jaden Smith, Rita Ora, and singer Travis Mills.
"They [were] letting people take pictures of them cuddling and kissing," the eyewitness says.
The night's festivities included a performance by Desiigner of his hit song, "Panda," and the couple munching on a delicious looking tray of avocado toast.
Grande, 23, and Miller, 24, eventually left the party holding hands. Grande looked comfortable rocking a very '90s ensemble of light-wash denim overalls unclipped on the left side, a white spaghetti strap crop top, and a black choker.
Reports surfaced last week that Grande and Miller were dating after they were spotted getting close on sushi dates and stealing kisses, and later spotted getting inked together at Shamrock Social Club in Los Angeles.  But the duo has actually been friends for a while, collaborating on her 2013 song "The Way."
Last month, Grande split from her boyfriend, backup dancer Ricky Alvarez.
ET chatted with Grande's older brother, 33-year-old Frankie Grande, on the VMAs red carpet on Monday ahead of the "Side to Side" singer's big performance with Nicki Minaj, and it's safe to say he approves of the new relationship.
"When Ariana is happy, I am happy," he told ET when asked about his sister's new beau. "Whatever makes her happy makes me happy. That's for sure."
Watch below:
“It’s go hard or go home.”
That’s how UnREAL co-creator Sarah Gertrude Shapiro describes Lifetime’s surprise hit -- and she’s not wrong. Based on Shapiro’s award-winning 2013 short film Sequin Raze, UnREAL has done exactly that, unapologetic in its biting examination (and sometimes criticism) of race, women in the workplace and reality television.

“I was genuinely shocked and bowled over,” she said in an August interview with ET. “We had gotten a tough love talk from our non-writing EP earlier in the week saying, ‘It’s not happening.’ And then my phone started blowing up. To be rewarded for that is insanely validating for the whole team.”
The show, at least on paper, did not have the obvious ingredients of being a clear-cut winner, in part because of the network that it called home. Largely “made on giant leaps of faith,” Lifetime wasn’t Shapiro’s first-choice destination for UnREAL, who was looking more along the lines of an HBO, Netflix or Amazon as potential fits. It was clear, though, that Lifetime was serious about shifting its direction when it came to its scripted dramas, which afforded Shapiro a creative freedom she likely wouldn’t have experienced elsewhere.

UnREAL immediately clicked with a loyal base of viewers after its summer 2015 debut, even though “we were a little bit of an experiment, like Weirdoville,” admitted Shapiro, who kept her home in Portland, Ore., just in case the show failed to resonate. “Someone on our team described it as a punk band paying in a garage. We were by hook or by crook.”
UnREAL’s quick ascent -- it was just one of a handful of shows to win the coveted Peabody Award -- meant more eyes would be on it come season two, which became its own unique challenge. “All of a sudden, we became a big deal at the network, so we had more people invested in the show,” Shapiro said. “While we could push the boundaries, there were a lot more voices [contributing ideas].”
While its first season was universally praised, its most recent run was generally thought to be more divisive. Asked about what her takeaway was for the sophomore season, Shapiro maintained that the outside criticism (and praise) doesn’t affect how she approaches storylines on the show.

“I feel like our show is such a high-wire act,” she said with a chuckle, specifically referring to UnREAL’s high-octane season two twists and turns. “Everything was high-stakes, treacherous and complicated. It was a really challenging season and sometimes it felt a little bit like extreme sports for writers. It’s tough stuff all the time. I can’t think of a single storyline that it was a cinch, you know?”
One critique was the lack of screen-time shared between the main protagonists, Everlasting TV producers Rachel (Appleby) and Quinn (Zimmer), who spent much of the season on opposite sides and busy exploring their new romances.  “It was really important to prove how much they need each other,” Shapiro said. “And even though they’re not a cute name to each other -- they aren’t a couple, they aren’t family -- they are the most important people in each other’s lives and we needed to pull them apart to show that they have to be together.”

“Now, that family is bound together forever. Jeremy went way too far and now, they’re all at the bottom of the well that we’re going to have to climb them out of,” Shapiro teased, who believes Jeremy is “redeemable on some level.” “How do you move on from that? What comes after that?”
“Every time we pitch something in the room where it’s like ‘Whoa, that’s really far’ and ‘That’s really scary,’ that’s the stuff that we know to lean into,” she added.

Beloved Willy Wonka actor Gene Wilder died Aug. 29, and as the news spread on Monday, celebrities took to social media to remember the star, his iconic films and his contributions to comedy.
Wilder, who was 83, passed away from complications resulting from Alzheimer's disease, his family reported on Monday.  His frequent collaborator and friend, Mel Brooks, remembered Wilder as "one of the truly great talents."
"Gene Wilder - One of the truly great talents of our time. He blessed every film we did with his magic & he blessed me with his friendship," he tweeted on Monday.
Russell Crowe shared fond memories of watching the Wilder-Brooks classic, Blazing Saddles. "I saw Blazing Saddles 7 times at the cinema with my school friends. George St. Cows outside. Gene Wilder you were a genius. Rest in Peace," he wrote.
News Radio star Dave Foley said Wilder's talent was too great for the term 'actor.'
"Gene Wilder's talent was too great to be contained by the term 'actor.' Instead he should be thought of as a 'genre.' #RIPGeneWilder."
Comedian Gilbert Gottfried posted a throwback pic of himself with Wilder and his Silver Streak co-star, the late Richard Pryor.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Read more tributes to the great comedic actor below. 
Teyana Taylor gave pretty much everyone at the VMAs body envy with her incredible dance moves.
The 25-year-old artist stars in Kanye West's "Fade" music video -- which the 39-year-old rapper dropped via Tidal after debuting it at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards -- and all anyone could talk about was her haunting routine, and amazing physique (just months after having her first child!).
So who is Taylor? There's a good chance you're already familiar with West's video star, but just in case, read on for a breakdown of everything you need to know.
1. She's not a new face in the music business.
While the "Fade" video made Taylor arguably the breakout star of the VMAs, the singer has actually been around since 2007, when she signed to Pharell's Star Trak record label. That same year, Taylor was featured on an episode of MTV's My Super Sweet 16.
Taylor met West through Pharrell's band N.E.R.D. on the "Glow in the Dark" tour in 2008, where the two became friends, and in 2012, Taylor signed with West's G.O.O.D. Music label.
Taylor has put out two albums with G.O.O.D. Music, and was featured on the record label's Cruel Summer album in 2012.
She's also got a new album, which Taylor told Hot New Hip Hop in May could be coming out any time now.
Besides music, Taylor has ventured into the acting world, and you may have seen her in movies, such as Madea's Big Happy Family, and Stomp the Yard: 2 homecoming.
MORE: Teyana Taylor Shows Off Insanely Flat Abs 6 Days After Giving Birth
2. She has an adorable 8-month-old baby with NBA star fiance Iman Shumpert.
The other two appearances in West's video were Taylor's (also gorgeous) Cleveland Cavaliers player husband, and the couple's first child, Iman Jr.
Taylor and Shumpert were engaged in November 2015, when the basketball pro proposed with this dazzling sparkler:
Just over a month later on Instagram, Taylor revealed that little Junie was born, and she's been just about the cutest daughter ever since.
So adorable!!
3. The secret to her bod is basically a bunch of squats + elliptical training.
So how did Taylor go from being a new mama to doing a "Flashdance"-inspired dance routine in the "Fade" video?
In 2014, the artist opened up to Enstars about her fitness routine, admitting, "I would be lying if I told you that I have hardcore workouts, because I really don't."
"But, I do a lot of squats," Taylor added. "The elliptical is my baby."
Whatever she does, it's working, as Taylor took to Twitter on Monday to thank her fans for the outpouring of love and support.
"Good morning and thank you all so much for all the love...😩😩😘😘😘😘💗 #FADE."
And by the way, there's some famous faces among those fans.
4. Kim Kardashian West, Kylie Jenner, Chrissy Teigen, and more stars can't get over Taylor's "Fade" video.
West's wife could not get over how amazing Taylor looked in "Fade," tweeting Monday, "Ok just woke up & watched the Fade video again for my Monday morning gym motivation. Thank you @TEYANATAYLOR."
The 35-year-old reality star also raved, "You guys!!! @TEYANATAYLOR has the best body ever!!! Like no joke and just had a baby!!!!"
Meanwhile, a gracious Taylor returned the love, tweeting several of Kim's recent (NSFW) vacation photos, writing, "Listen @KimKardashian let's not forget the Mexico slayage tho!! & this is with 2 kids, girl."
PHOTOS: Hollywood's Hottest Bikini Bods!
Kim's sister Kylie was also floored by the video, taking to Twitter to write, "Kanye video CRAZYYYYYYYY wow  #VMAs  @TEYANATAYLOR @kanyewest."
"teyana WHAAAAAAAAT plz train me also what are the lambs," Teigen wrote, referencing the lamb-filled ending to the "Fade" video. "You know what forget it I don't care please help me."
MORE: Kanye West Shares Taylor Swift 'Unity' Photo -- But What Does It Mean?!
And Bella Hadid also heaped on the praise, tweeting, "MOTHER F*KING @TEYANATAYLOR !!!! BADDEST B**CH ALIVEEEEEEEEE."
(WARNING: NSFW language.)
West's video made a big statement, mainly that this was Taylor's big night!
Watch the video below for more on West's "Fade" video debut.
Gene Wilder has died at the age of 83, his nephew, Jordan Walker-Pearlman, confirmed to ET.
The iconic comedic actor, who starred in such classics as Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, Blazing Saddles, Young Frankenstein, and The Producers, died at his home in Stamford, Connecticut, on Monday of complications from Alzheimer's disease.
"It is almost unbearable for us to contemplate our life without him," the statement read.
PHOTOS: Stars We've Lost In Recent Years
Wilder had been battling Alzheimer's for the past three years, with the actor and his family choosing to keep the illness private.
"We understand for all the emotional and physical challenges this situation presented we have been among the lucky ones -- this illness-pirate, unlike in so many cases, never stole his ability to recognize those that were closest to him, nor took command of his central-gentle-life affirming core personality," Walker-Pearlman wrote. "It took enough, but not that."
"The decision to wait until this time to disclose his condition wasn't vanity, but more so that the countless young children that would smile or call out to him, 'There's Willy Wonka,' would not have to be then exposed to an adult referencing illness or trouble and causing delight to travel to worry, disappointment or confusion," the statement continued. "He simply couldn't bear the idea of one less smile in the world."
Walker-Pearlman ended the note with a heartbreaking but beautiful recollection of Wilder's final moments.
"He was 83 and passed holding our hands with the same tenderness and love he exhibited as long as I can remember," he wrote. "As our hands clutched and he performed one last breath
the music speaker, which was set to random, began to blare out one of his favorites: Ella Fitzgerald. There is a picture of he and Ella meeting at a London Bistro some years ago that are
among each or cherished possessions. She was singing 'Somewhere Over The Rainbow,' as he was taken away."
The Associated Press first reported the news, tweeting, "Gene Wilder, star of 'Willy Wonka' and Mel Brooks comedies, is dead at 83, his family says."
Mel Brooks, Wilder's longtime collaborator, was one of the first to react to the news of his friend's passing. "Gene Wilder-One of the truly great talents of our time," he tweeted. "He blessed every film we did with his magic & he blessed me with his friendship."
Wilder is survived by his wife, Karen, nephew Jordan, the Webb family (Kevin, Gretchen, Tucker, and Spencer), as well as Jordan's wife, Elizabeth. His sister, Corinne, died this past January.
It's officially official: Pretty Little Liars is coming to an end!
On Monday, executive producer, Marlene King, and the series' five leading ladies took to Facebook to reveal to that the long-running drama will not return to Freeform after season seven.
"The next ten episides of the show really are going to be the last ten episodes of the series," King said to fans via a live stream from The Brew on the Pretty Little Liars set. "We're saying goodbye. The PLL endgame begins on April 2017.
Currently in its seventh season, Pretty Little Liars' summer finale will air tomorrow night and the murder mystery series will return for its final ten episodes in April 2017 and will end in a special two-hour series finale event.
"It’s been an honor to work with such a talented cast and crew over the last seven years," King said in an statement ahead of the live steam. "We are a family, and it will be hard to say goodbye to a show that has made such an impact on young audiences and been a mouthpiece for cultural change. I’m excited for fans to finally have all of their questions answered, and I believe they will be satisfied with the wild ride that is our last ten episodes."
Pretty Little Liars, which premiered on Freeform (formerly known as ABC Family) in June 2010, was an instant ratings and social media juggernaut for the teen-skewing network. Now, seven seasons later, the show's formerly fresh-faced stars stars, Lucy Hale, Troian Bellisario, Ashely Benson and Shay Mitchell, have become household names and each boast a massive online following.
There had been rumors that a PLL spinoff could be a possibility or that the series would continue on, but without a few key members of the cast. Back in June, ET caught up with Hale at the premiere red carpet, and the 27-year-old actress confirmed that season seven is "the beginning of the end."
EXCLUSIVE: 'PLL' Star Troian Bellisario Jokes About a 'Serious Attitude Problem' on Set
"It's probably the last season with the full cast, which is what made [PLL] what it is," Hale revealed. "It's bittersweet. It may continue in some way, shape, or form with new people or keeping some of the [old] cast."
Unfortunately, our hopes of a spinoff have been dashed and we can only savor the final TK episodes headed our way in 2017. On the bright side, this means we (hopefully!) are going to discover who Uber A is once and for all.
Pretty Little Liars' summer finale airs Tuesday, August 30 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Freeform.
How do you feel about Pretty Little Liars officially coming to a close after season seven? Will you miss the Liars? Share your thoughts with @LeanneAguilera on Twitter!
Taylor Swift did her civic duty.
The 26-year-old singer reported for jury duty in Nashville on Monday, and showed up makeup-free and dressed in a simple black top. According to social media posts making the rounds on the Internet, Swift happily posed for selfies with her fellow potential jurors, and kept a big smile on her face the entire time.
"Met @taylorswift13 today at jury duty. She is so nice. #civicduty," twitter user @n8foo wrote.
"I really appreciate that she showed up for jury duty in our city despite her celebrity status. She was very gracious, and I was proud that my jury duty peers were very respectful," an eyewitness tells ET.
One video shows a mother regaling Swift with a story about her kids singing to "Shake It Off" that very morning, which she appears to be clearly flattered by.
The case Swift was being considered for as a juror involved charges of aggravated rape, aggravated kidnapping and domestic assault, according to local news outlet WSMV-TV. Although Swift said she could be fair and impartial as a juror, she was eventually dismissed from the possible jury pool.
ET has reached out to her rep for comment.
The superstar's presence was certainly missed at Sunday's 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, though it's not exactly a surprise she didn't attend this year -- aside from her  epic beef with Kanye West and Kim Kardashian over his hit "Famous", she wasn't nominated for any awards.
Still, West did bring up Swift while introducing the world premiere of his new music video "Fade," once again reiterating that he "called her" before releasing the controversial song.
Watch below:
Be still our Haleb-loving hearts…
After far too many months of watching former lovers, Hanna and Caleb, fight back their feelings on Pretty Little Liars, it seems like the time has come for this fan favorite couple to reconcile -- and only ET has your exclusive sneak peek of the highly anticipated moment!
In our first look scene from Tuesday's summer finale, Caleb brings a safe (yet shaken) Hanna home, but refuses to believe that she's "okay" after her tumultuous run-in with Noel Kahn on last week's episode.
"Hanna, the last time I left you alone in a room, A.D. took you," Caleb stubbornly recalled. "So I hate to break it to you, girl, but you're stuck with me."
EXCLUSIVE: 'PLL' Star Troian Bellisario Jokes About a 'Serious Attitude Problem' on Set
And that's when everything takes a turn for the swoonworthy…
After calling each other a "pain in the ass," Caleb's pent-up frustrations tumble out of his mouth in a shocking sweet confession of love.
"Hanna you don’t do dishes until they mold," he snapped at his ex. "You eat French fries in bed. Cold. You don’t gas up the car until it starts beeping."
"You won't admit that we're supposed to spend the rest of our lives together," he added nonchalantly. "You send food back if the waiter breaths on it funny. And you know what? There's probably milk in that fridge that's older than me."
Umm… who else caught that whole "spend the rest of our lives together" part? Swoon!
Pretty Little Liars' summer finale airs Tuesday, August 30 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Freeform.
Who else is hyperventilating with Haleb Feels? Share your thoughts with @LeanneAguilera on Twitter and press play on the video below to find out what Hanna and Caleb's dream wedding would look like!
Well, this was unexpected!
Kanye West shared a new photo on Twitter Monday that might be a signal that the 39-year-old rapper is ready to bury the hatchet (again) with longtime enemy Taylor Swift.
"Unity love," Kanye captioned a photo of a T-Shirt showing the 26-year-old singer's 1989 album cover fused with his 2010 record, My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy.
(WARNING: NSFW painted nudity depicted on Kanye's half of the collage).
It's unclear if the "Famous" rapper means this to be an olive branch to Taylor, but while she was busy with jury duty, Kanye continued to address their ongoing drama at the 2016 VMAs on Sunday night, where he was nominated for two awards (and graciously predicted his loss of Video of the Year to Beyonce).
"People come up to me like, 'Yeah, that’s right! Take Taylor!'" Kanye said during MTV's allotted time for him to say whatever he wanted. "But bro, like, I love all y'all. That's why I called her!"
So, while Taylor would like to be "excluded from this narrative," don't be surprised if Yeezy sends her another trove of white flowers for a reprise of the singer's most liked Instagram photo ever below.
Watch the video below for more on Kanye's VMA speech and debut of his incredibly sexy "Fade" video starring Teyana Taylor.
Kylie Jenner is letting her fans know how she achieves the look of her famously plump lips.
The 19-year-old reality star took to Snapchat to share the three-step process she undergoes to get her much copied lipstick style, and surprisingly, it doesn't appear as intense as her fans might think.
First, Kylie says she fills in her lips with lip liner.
Then, she uses matte liquid lipstick -- from her own cosmetics line of course -- in the middle.
Lastly, she pats her lips dry.
... Just don't be alarmed at the intense residue left on your finger!
Last March, Scott Disick revealed it takes Kylie 40 minutes to work on her pout in a memorable episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians.
"Have you seen her do her lipstick? It takes, like, 40 minutes, and then she, like, pulls one lip, pushes one out," Scott marveled. "I don't understand why everybody thinks it's so cute to duck [your lips] out!"
Last May, Kylie also finally admitted to getting temporary lip fillers. ".... It's just an insecurity of mine and it's what I wanted to do," she confirmed after plenty of speculation about her lips on KUWTK."I want to admit to the lips but people are so quick to judge me on everything, so I might have tiptoed around the truth, but I never lie."
But her lips aren't the only part of Kylie that some fans speculate about. She recently cleared up more plastic surgery rumors earlier this month, when she showed off her more voluptuous figure on Instagram.  The makeup maven insisted that she's never had a boob job.
"TMI but it's that time of the month lol," she tweeted. "They will deflate soon. And it will be a sad sad day."
Watch below:
Update: Justin Bieber took to Twitter Monday morning to say that his social return was actually a mistake. "Still no Instagram it was an accident," he wrote. The account still remains active without any updates.
So, what did that mean? Justin Bieber returned to Instagram early Monday morning after several weeks away from the social media site. The “Sorry” singer, 21, had temporarily deleted his account after calling for privacy, slamming his followers for insulting his rumored girlfriend Sofia Richie, and having an online feud with ex, Selena Gomez.
Bieber’s return was without pomp or circumstance. He did not post any new photos or videos, but instead shared nine new white squares. His last clip was posted on Aug. 15, and featured his new dog, Todd. Shortly after Bieber's return, his loyal fans took to the comments section to share how much they loved the singer and were excited he was back. 
The GRAMMY winner first warned his fans to taper their comments about his new lady love, Richie.
“I’m gonna make my Instagram private if you guys don’t stop the hate this is getting out of hand, if you guys are really fans you wouldn’t be so mean to people that I like,” she captioned a picture with the 18-year-old.
Bieber’s ex, Gomez, took to the comments section to bash his words, writing, “If you can’t handle the hate then stop posting pictures of your girlfriend lol - it should be special between you two only. Don’t be mad at your fans. They love you."
MORE: Justin Bieber Takes Sofia Richie to Mexico Following Her 18th Birthday
She later apologized on Snapchat, writing, “What I said was selfish and pointless.”
Bieber has since been spotted out with Richie several times, including celebrating her recent milestone birthday in Los Angeles. The couple was spotted in Cabo, Mexico, over the weekend, getting cozy. Perhaps, Bieber rejoined Instagram to post some vacation pics?
Happy birthday to the late King of Pop, who would have turned 58 years old on Monday.
Jackson's 19-year-old son, Prince Jackson, took some time out to remember his father on his special day by sharing a sonnet written about Jackson, asking fans to remember the legendary singer as a man and not just a musical icon. The poem emphasizes Jackson's more personal roles as a "son, brother, and father."
"Today we celebrate the birthday of a legend, but don't forget to celebrate the Man," Prince wrote on his social media accounts. "Here is a sonnet written for him."
Prince is no doubt making the Jackson family proud, recently starting a Los Angeles production company appropriately named King's Son. He also appears to enjoy a close relationship with the Jackson family. Earlier this month, he shared a family photo reuniting with his grandpa, 88-year-old Joe Jackson, in Las Vegas.
Meanwhile, Prince's younger sister, 18-year-old Paris Jackson, has chosen to remember her father by dedicating multiple tattoos to him. In April, she got the words "Queen of my heart" in her dad's handwriting down the side of her left wrist.
"To everyone else he was the King of Pop. To me, well, he was the king of my heart," she wrote about her meaningful ink.
Aside from Prince and Paris, Jackson is also survived by his youngest child, 14-year-old Blanket.
Watch the video below for more on Paris' tattoos in honor of her father:
Talk about a twist!

As the Freeform drama wraps up its summer run, Callie is about to get thrown for a loop. In ET’s exclusive sneak peek from Monday’s summer finale, a stranger approaches her Justice for Jack booth at the bayside festival she’s stationed at.

“Well, he isn’t a murderer,” Callie replies matter-of-factly. But the young man isn’t budging. Why? Turns out, he’s the victim’s grandson.
Things are about to get interesting!
The Fosters wraps its summer run Monday at 8 p.m. ET/PT on Freeform.
It appears Britney Spears has no hard feelings when it comes to her ex, Justin Timberlake.
Spears participated in a Q&A with fans for Most Requested Live with Romeo on Saturday, when the 34-year-old pop princess shocked everyone by naming Timberlake as an artist she would like to work with. The "Make Me..." singer also chose Aerosmith's Steven Tyler and Gwen Stefani as top choices.
"Aerosmith seems really good and bright. He's a genius, I think. And, he's very rock n' roll. He sings from his soul," Spears said, who's actually performed with the band before for the 2001 super bowl halftime show. "Gwen Stefani -- I think she's great."
Obviously though, it was Spears' casual mention of Timberlake that has everyone buzzing. The two memorably dated in 1999, before splitting three years later.
"Justin Timberlake is very good," she said matter-of-factly.
Of course, she technically already has worked with the 35-year-old "Mirrors" singer musically. Timberlake also performed at the 2001 super bowl halftime show when he was still a part of *NSYNC, and the boy band performed with Spears during her first ever MTV Video Music Awards performance in 1999.
But Spears now admits she has no recollection of the legendary performance.
"I think I was with *NSYNC when I performed for the first time. I think the whole setup was a classroom, and my four main dancers were in the front at their desk and I came out of my locker… But you know what, I don't remember at all," she told host Elvis Duran when she stopped by Elvis Duran and The Morning Show on Monday. "I have no recollection. I couldn’t tell you anything about it."
Spears returned to the VMA stage for the first time in nine years on Sunday to perform a sexy rendition of "Make Me..." -- complete with her grabbing rapper G-Eazy's crotch.
Watch below:
If the VMAs taught us anything, it's that Drake is not afraid to declare his love for Rihanna to the world. The "One Dance" rapper presented the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award to RiRi, announcing he'd been in love with her since he was 22.
After the show, the pair snapped a precious selfie together with Drake kissing the side of his lady love's head.
"This is a night for us all to be thankful for what you have done for us! You have affected so many of our lives in the best way possible. Tonight we celebrate you! @badgalriri," he captioned the pic.
The "Work" singer and a very smitten Drake then headed to the nightclub Up & Down, where tons of celebs, including Amber Rose, Tyson Beckford, Ansel Elgort, Hailey Baldwin, Chance the Rapper, and Jaden Smith, helped RiRi continue the celebrations.
All eyes were on Rihanna, who attended the party in a flapper-inspired lime green jumpsuit with a matching statement necklace. 
Drake, on the other hand, rocked an embellished navy blue bomber jacket, black T-shirt, and dark jeans for the after-party, which they left together.
When Drake was presenting the award to the "Diamonds" singer during the awards show, he said, "She's one of my best friends in the world. All my adult life, I've looked up to her, even though she's younger than me. She's a living breathing legend in our industry."
On their way off the stage, the pair embraced and Rihanna leaned in, seemingly kissing Drake on the lips.
Before he professed his love for Rihanna on the stage, Drake rented out a billboard to congratulate her on the achievement.
"When he extra," the Barbardos native captioned a photo of the billboard that read, "Congratulations to Rihanna from Drake."
Another person cheering for RiRi at the show was Kanye West. To see his speech, watch the video below!



When the best athlete who has ever played the sport faces relentless pressure to confirm to a narrow-minded "norm" -- what hope do the rest of us who jog on a treadmill while watching The Bachelorette have? Here's the genius of Serena: She has shown that as long as you are passionate and competitive and want to metaphorically tear your opponent into tiny little pieces, you are the best. Everything else is noise, and that is the standard she alone can set.









To see a flashback video from 2000 of ET's first interview with Serena, check out the below:



When the best athlete who has ever played the sport faces relentless pressure to confirm to a narrow-minded "norm" -- what hope do the rest of us who jog on a treadmill while watching The Bachelorette have? Here's the genius of Serena: She has shown that as long as you are passionate and competitive and want to metaphorically tear your opponent into tiny little pieces, you are the best. Everything else is noise, and that is the standard she alone can set.









To see a flashback video from 2000 of ET's first interview with Serena, check out the below:
Looks like the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday also doubled as date night for some of music's biggest superstars.
Producer Swizz Beatz shared an amazing group snap on Instagram on Sunday, featuring his wife -- singer Alicia Keys -- Beyonce, Jay Z, Kim Kardashian, Kanye West, Diddy, and girlfriend Cassie. The power couples clearly had a good time together over drinks, judging by the giant smiles on everyone's faces.
"Family Zone," Swizz captioned the incredible candid shot.
PICS: Stunning 2016 MTV VMA Red Carpet Arrivals
The star-studded dinner guests all had a great showing at this year's VMAs, with Kanye debuting his "Fade" video to much fanfare, Diddy and Cassie putting on a united front after breakup rumors, and Beyonce absolutely slaying her performance of some of Lemonade's biggest hits -- not to mention walking away with an armful of Moonmen.
Meanwhile, Keys shared a romantic pic of her and her hubby cuddling backstage, looking radiant while sticking to her no makeup pledge.
But if there's one celebrity pair missing from Swizz's powerful pic it's Rihanna and Drake. The "Work" singer shut it down with four flawless performances in celebration of her Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award, after which her rumored on-and-off fling Drake candidly professed his love for her as he presented her with the big award.
Watch below:


In ET’s exclusive first look from the brand new episode, a perfectly tan Brody shows off his eight-pack abs -- and luscious dirty blonde locks -- as he races out of his happy, Alabama home, after receiving news regarding the whereabouts of his dementia-addled father.
Of course, he takes his sweet time putting on his T-shirt after hopping on his motorcycle -- not that we’re complaining.
Later on in the clip, Brody’s love interest, Bonnie (Kelly Sullivan), heads off to work at the local diner, May Sally’s, she notices the door ajar and a naked figure, which turns out to be Brody's missing dad, sitting at the counter.

“I had a couple of scenes on the motorcycle that were a lot of fun. I hope it makes it because there was one scene where I had to get my clothes on -- I go chase down my dad -- and I hop on the motorcycle, and I drifted this motorcycle in the dirt and went back out,” O’Hurn revealed to ET.
Fans may want to keep an eye out for another scene featuring a shirtless O’Hurn this season. “I thought it was kind of crazy when I was running outside in a towel, so there’s that,” he said with a chuckle. 

“That’s one of the things that I’m thankful is that I live knowing that I’m going to do these things. I live believing wholeheartedly and I never stopped believing in it,” he said of his quick ascent in Hollywood. “Along the path, a lot of people can say things like ‘You can’t do this. You can’t do that. You’ll never get there.’ I stopped listening to all of that and I kept believing in myself more than anybody else ever could and now I’m standing here.”
Too Close to Home airs Mondays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on TLC.
Heather Locklear absolutely slays as the no-nonsense first lady on Too Close to Home. Relive the magic below.
Kim Kardashian lived up to her Selfish title at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday. The reality star, 35, hit up the annual awards show to present for Britney Spears, support her hubby, Kanye West, and, of course, to take a whole bunch of selfies.
The Keeping Up with the Kardashians star posted a series of selfies and videos to her official Snapchat account from inside New York’s Madison Square Garden.
MORE: 7 Behind-the-Scenes 2016 MTV VMAs Moments Viewers Missed From the Broadcast
Using the deer filter, Kim goofed off backstage with singer Ariana Grande. Kim also took a minute to pose with several Olympians, including the Final Five gymnastics team (minus the sick Gabby Douglas).
She snapped a personal selfie with Simone Biles, using her signature duck lips.
Kimye also had some Snapchat fun with gold medalist Michael Phelps and his fiancée, Nicole Johnson.
As Kim got ready for her presenting duties, she posed backstage with the woman of the hour – Britney Spears!
“It’s Britney, b**ch!” Kim declared as the ladies posed before Brit’s headline-making performance. Sunday night’s show marked the first time in nine years that Spears has graced the VMAs stage. She performed her new single “Make Me” with rapper G-Eazy.
While Kim presented the singer, her bestie, Jonathan Cheban, cheered her on from the crowd. Cheban took Kanye’s seat while the rapper gave his speech and introduced his new music video. Kim and Kanye also goofed off with Diddy and his girlfriend, Cassie, toward the end of the evening.
Before hitting the VMAs red carpet, Kim asked her fans on Twitter for their opinion on her ensemble, and they voted on a “Dressy sexy look.”
She didn’t disappoint, wearing a sheer black mini-dress. Check out Kim cheering Kanye on in the video below!
Let’s go back, back to the beginning! Several stars from the MTV hit reality series Laguna Beach reunited on Saturday to celebrate the wedding of Dieter Schmitz and Isabell Hiebl.
Schmitz, a star from the show and longtime friend of both Stephen Colletti and Lauren Conrad, wed his fiancée in Monterey, California, at the InterContinental Hotel. Several of Schmitz’s co-stars, including Colletti, Trey Phillips, and Loren Polster, served as groomsmen.
Conrad was also in attendance, posing with her longtime friend on Instagram stories and sharing a picture of the happy couple to her official account.
“Congrats to @dieterschmitz and @isathebell !!! We are so happy for you two!!! XOXO #dizzy4schmitz,” she captioned the photo of the newlyweds.
Colletti also shared a pic with his best pal, writing, “One proud groomsman. The German king scores himself a lovely Austrian queen. And all is well… #dizzy4schmitz @dieterschmitz.”
Phillips posted a photo of all the groomsmen, writing, “Happy Day!!!! Here we go @dieterschmitz !”
But no one is happier than Schmitz, who posted a framed wedding photo with a beach backdrop to Instagram, writing, “Still pinching myself to make sure this is reality. What an amazing night. @isathebell Schmitz I love you! #dizzy4schmitz.”
Schmitz, Phillips, and Polster currently live in New York, where the groom is the General Manager of the InterContinental Hotels Group. The pals often hang out, and, in fact, Phillips and Schmitz celebrated his final night of bachelorhood with a fancy dinner at Lucien in NYC last week.
“Friends for two plus decades celebrating the last supper before the upcoming wedding to @isathebell requires a romantic corner booth and an abundance of glasses. Thanks @treyphillips!!!” Schmitz captioned the sweet pic.
Taking PDA to a new level! Catfish star Nev Schulman and his pregnant fiancée Laura Perlongo hit the red carpet at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday, looking crazy in love.
The couple wasn’t shy about celebrating their impending bundle of joy as Perlongo walked the carpet wearing an open grey jacket, which exposed her cleavage and her growing baby bump.
A doting Schulman goofed off with his lady love, posing prom-style, cradling his fiancée’s belly, and finally kneeling down to kiss the bump.
After the event, Schulman took to Twitter to praise Perlongo, writing, “She’s a bada**! Nothing better than a confident baby mama!”
Schulman popped the question in late May, shortly after the couple announced they were expecting “accidentally on purpose.”
Didn’t score an invite to Madison Square Garden on Sunday night? No problem! The 2016 MTV Video Music Awards aired live for all to see. But there were some behind-the-scenes moments that TV viewers missed.
Luckily, ET attended the event and kept a close watch on your favorite stars from Beyonce to Britney! Here are 7 unseen moments from the VMAs:
1. Kanye West and Kim Kardashian Were the VMAs Prom King and Queen
From the moment they sat down, the A-list couple was quickly swarmed by fans, snapping selfies and chatting with the crowd that gathered around their seats. They were also the only stars with a visible security detail. Yeezy later forced everyone in his section to stand up and cheer for Rihanna after her epic opening performance.
2. Michael 4 ‘Murica
When Olympian Michael Phelps took to the stage the crowd loudly chanted “USA, USA, USA!” Phelps also had a memorable moment when he took out his phone to film or snap pics of Jimmy Fallon poking fun at Olympian Ryan Lochte. The crowd didn't know quite know how to take it, gasping when the late-night host mentioned having a "gun to his head."
3. Kim Kardashian Stuck to Her Diet
While looking fierce and sexy in her sheer mini-dress, Kim refused all drinks being offered to her in favor of #AtkinsBody.
4. Taylor Swift Fans Were Present Though She Was Not
Though the “Blank Space” singer skipped this year’s show, her band of loyal followers definitely still had a presence. They booed Kanye West when he took the stage to give his speech, directly mentioning Swift. Audible chants of Taylor’s name could be heard through the arena as he spoke. Kanye turned and smiled when someone shouted, “I made that b**ch famous!” and had a more serious face when another person shouted, “Kanye for president!”
5. Rihanna Didn't Hide Her Affection for Drake
RiRi may have given an eye roll when Drake told the crowd he has been in love with her since he was 22, but when the cameras and bright lights were off of them she leaned in for a sweet embrace and the two shared another kiss.  Plus, check out the adorable BTS moment below!
6. Calvin Harris Was Booed
In addition to snubbing his co-writer and ex, Taylor Swift, in his speech, the Scottish DJ also got some flack for not bothering to show up to the show. As his pre-taped acceptance aired, the crowd booed Harris for not his absence.
7. Beyonce Is Beloved
Hands-down the biggest crowd reaction of the night was to Beyonce’s epic Lemonade medley. Celebs and fans alike were on their feet from the first refreshing moment.
Tell us what your favorite moment from the 2016 MTV VMAs was in the comments below!
Baby bumps and superheroes? On Sunday night, MTV stars Jenelle Evans and Farrah Abraham hit the red carpet at the 2016 Video Music Awards looking drastically different.
Teen Mom 2 star Evans, 24, attended the event with her boyfriend, David Eason, wearing a beautiful blush-colored gown and cradling her growing baby bump. The couple recently announced that they are expecting their first child together, a baby girl who will be named Ensley.
MORE: ‘Teen Mom 2’ Star Jenelle Evans Officially Confirms Third Pregnancy, Reveals Baby’s Gender and Name!
Going for a much more over-the-top red carpet look, Teen Mom OG star Farrah Abraham stepped out in a full Wonder Woman costume for the annual event. (Totally normal stuff, right?)
Wearing heavy makeup, platform silver boots, and a red cape, Abraham, 25, sported an “OG!” painted on her arm as she posed for pictures. She also snapped a selfie with Teen Mom 2 star Kailyn Lowry, who hit the carpet solo in a red lace crop top and black wide-legged pants.
Evans did not pose with her MTV co-stars, but she did post a message to her beau on Instagram.
“I've never been this happy in my life. @uncledave01 , you are my one and only. Thank you for being there for me from steaming my dress 5 mins before we leave to unbuckling my heels and taking off my shoes. I've realize it's the little things you do that make me admire you the most. Thank you for bringing this gorgeous light into my world and making it brighter everyday for the better. I love you David Eason. #RelationshipGoalsMet #VMA#PreggoStyle,” she wrote.
Though this will be the pair’s first child together, Evans recently revealed to Us Weekly that she suffered a miscarriage before this most recent pregnancy. After getting checked by doctors for a series of health issues, Evans was told by a doctor that she was pregnant. But a short time later she discovered she was bleeding.
“So actually instead of it being my period I [thought I] had, I guess [it was] a miscarriage the month before I even got pregnant. And that’s when everyone thought I was pregnant at first,” she told Us Weekly.
She also revealed the couple had not been planning to expand their family until after marriage, but that Evans was off birth control on her doctor’s orders.
Hot off their Olympic run, the Final Five are living their best life.

The foursome took the stage to present the award for Best Female Video, which went to Beyonce. Naturally, they all freaked out. Who wouldn’t?!
Hernandez, who will be joining season 23 of Dancing With the Stars, probably had the best reaction after hugging the 34-year-old “Formation” singer onstage.

Hernandez had to preserve the moment, taking to Twitter to make sure the surreal experience actually really happened. “I just hugged Beyonce,” she adorably tweeted to her more than 274K followers.

Hernandez even took a selfie with West, who debuted his NSFW “Fade” music video featuring real-life couple Teyana Taylor and Iman Shumpert at the awards show, captioning the pic, “I love Kanye more than Kanye loves Kanye.”

Kardashian also posted a photo with Biles, Raisman, Hernandez and Kocian to her Snapchat, with a gold medal at the bottom signifying the Final Five’s epic run at the Rio Olympics.
On the “white” carpet, Raisman told ET’s Carly Steel that Douglas’ VMA no-show was due to an “allergic reaction,” reiterating that the 20-year-old gold medalist was “doing OK.” “Something was a little swollen on her face. They’re having her rest, just in case,” Raisman said. Watch the video below for more.
Ariana Grande and Mac Miller looked pretty adorable at the 2016 VMAs on Sunday night, sitting next to each other in the audience and even snuggling up for cute pics.
PHOTOS: 2016 MTV VMA Red Carpet Arrivals
But the singer played coy on the carpet, dodging question about her rumored new beau in favor of talking about the new ink they got together this weekend.
“I got an A, which is my best friend’s initial and my initial, and then I got the venus [symbol] which I've wanted to get for a long time,” gushed Grande, who performed her new duet, “Side to Side,” with Nicki Minaj in a sexy, spin class-inspired performance at the awards show.
The singer also told ET that she couldn’t wait for fans to see the “Side to Side” music video, which debuted on the Guess website on Sunday night.
“I'm really excited about it,” she said. “It's my favorite one so far.”
Grande’s brother Frankie, however, got a little more candid about the speculation surrounding his little sister’s love life.
“When Ariana is happy, I am happy,” he told ET.  “Whatever makes her happy makes me happy. That's for sure.”
Check out the pics from Grande and Miller’s trip to the tattoo parlor in the video below.
The Rihanna gifts kept coming at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards, as the singer delivered an unprecedented four solo performances throughout the three-hour telecast.
For her first set, RiRi kicked off the VMAs with a rapid-fire medley of some of her biggest hits. The 28-year-old superstar ran through a heavily-choreographed medley of "Don't Stop the Music," "Only Girl (In the World), "We Found Love,” and "Where Have You Been." Dressed head-to-toe in a bubblegum pink ensemble from Hood By Air., along with a bevy of backup dancers, Rihanna kept the focus on her moves as she sang along sparingly. (Listen, we already know all about Rihanna's killer vocal chops. More on that later.)
READ: Why Rihanna Almost Didn't Record 'Work' 
Bringing the club to the stage about 30 minutes later, the Barbados-born beauty returned for a second set following an introduction from Naomi Campbell. Wearing baggy pants and a furry bustier, Rih launched into "Rude Boy" and then her 2010 Drake collaboration, "What's My Name." With no Drizzy in sight, Rihanna powered through with plenty of booty shaking and sang nearly all of her Anti hit, "Work."
"Where's Drake?" presenter Jordan Peele wondered afterward. "[He] couldn't afford a ticket cause he spent all his money on that billboard?"
PIC: Drake Surprises Rihanna With the Sweetest Present Ahead of the VMAs! 
Tracee Ellis Ross paid tribute to the singer ahead of her third set, which began with a frequently-bleeped "Needed Me" set against a colorful, psychedelic background. Switching up her look with some baby bangs, Rihanna delivered her sultry "Pour it Up" and powerful "B***h Better Have My Money." By the end, cameras cut to a clearly smitten Kim Kardashian, who was Snapchatting video of herself in the audience, with Rihanna's performance going on in the background.
For her grand finale, Rihanna scored a glowing appreciation from Mary J. Blige and pulled out the big guns: her powerhouse vocals.
Standing on an all-white stage, backed by a full brass band and grand piano, Rihanna held court in a billowing gown held together at her waist by a sparkly belt -- and she saaaaang.
Rih brought down the house with a captivating performance of "Stay," followed by "Diamonds" and "Love on the Brain," appearing adorably emotional by the end.
Of course, Drake couldn't miss an opportunity to profess his love to Rihanna, once again, on a global platform. Even after missing his own chance at an acceptance speech earlier in the night, the rapper made his way up to the stage, dressed to the nines in a black tuxedo and bow-tie, Video Vanguard Moonman in hand. 
"The first time I met Robyn Fenty was in 2005," he began, recalling Rih's very first music video shoot for "Pon de Replay" in his native Toronto. "I was introduced to her as the kid who played background music at the restaurant as people ate their dinner."
"She's someone I've been in love with since I was 22 years old," he gushed, prompting big cheers from the audience. "She's one of my best friends in the world. All my adult life, I've looked up to her, even though she's younger than me. She's a living breathing legend in our industry."
Approaching the mic for her own acceptance speech, Rihanna made sure to show plenty of love to her native Barbados.
"When I think about the Vanguard Award and receiving this tonight, all I could think of was my country. They're gonna be so proud. This is the first Vanguard to land anywhere close to my country," she admitted. "It's not my own, it's my family's. It's my fans', it's my country's, it's the Caribbean’s, as a whole. It's women, it's black women. So many people feel like their little piece is such a major part of this puzzle, and I have to thank you guys for supporting me over and over."
This will be over Ryan Lochte's head for a while.
Jimmy Fallon presented the Video of the Year award to Beyonce at the 2016 MTV VMAs, but not before poking fun at Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte, whose image was tarnished earlier this month at the Rio Games after his now infamous gas station incident with some fellow U.S. swimmers.
MORE: Stephen Colbert Hilariously 'Interviews' Ryan Lochte -- Watch!
Stepping out in Team USA gear and Lochte's hair color -- which was dyed ice blue for the Games -- the Tonight Show host shaded the athlete by facetiously claiming, "I directed all five nominees. What an amazing year I've had!"
"Who had the best video of the year?" Fallon hilariously added. "I could never choose. I couldn't tell you even if there was a gun to my head... which there isn't."
Lochte's teammate Michael Phelps -- who introduced rapper Future earlier in the show and credited his song for inspiring the now infamous “Phelps Face” -- seemed to be enjoying Fallon's speech, and could be seen snapping a picture or video of the bit.
MORE: Ryan Lochte Officially Charged by Brazilian Police for Filing a False Robbery Report
After the show, Fallon tweeted, "Thank you #VMAs and #MTV for having me. Dying my hair back for tomorrow's show."
Meanwhile, after losing sponsors over what took place in Rio de Janiero, a source tells ET that Lochte has signed on to compete in Dancing With the Stars season 23.
Watch the video below for more.
Now this is how you pull off a performance.
Beyonce brought her sold-out Formation World Tour to the MTV Video Music Awards at Madison Square Garden on Sunday with an unbelievable 15-minute Lemonade medley that brought everyone to their feet.

Beyonce then effortlessly transitioned to her country-tinged song, “Hold Up,” stripping down to her signature black leotard and knee-high black boots, and flaunting her best assets while dancing with her troupe.

She then went into her song, “Sorry,” which features the much-discussed lyric, “Better call Becky with the good hair,” infusing some extra sass and attitude into the performance that simply made it that much more unforgettable -- not that she really needed any help.

Things turned to 11 when she sang the super NSFW revenge anthem, “Don’t Hurt Yourself.” “Who the f**k do you think I am?” she snarls. “You ain’t married to no average b*tch boy.”

Literally.
Beyonce closed out her medley (which was really a mini-concert, let’s be real) with her female-empowerment anthem, “Formation,” and showed exactly why it’s nearly impossible to top her. How she didn’t end up closing the VMAs boggles the mind!


Thank you, Queen B. Thank YOU.
There's that Kanye West we know and love!
MTV gave the Life of Pablo rapper a platform to do whatever he wanted at the 2016 VMAs, which Kanye used to debut his new Teyana Taylor-starring video for "Fade," but not before taking a few moments to give one of his Yeeziest speeches yet.
"I am Kanye West, and that feels really great to say, especially this year," the 39-year-old musician opened the speech. “I came here to present my new video, but before I do that… I’m gonna talk.”
Despite the boasting, however, Kanye did show a surprising moment of graciousness, saying, "Now, later tonight, 'Famous' might lose to Beyoncé [for Video of the Year] but I can’t be mad. I’m always wishing for Beyoncé to win so…"
MORE: Kim Kardashian Let Fans Pick Her 2016 MTV VMA Look — And This is What They Chose!
Besides name checking his ex Amber Rose (and thanking his wife Kim Kardashian West for being "a G" for letting him do so), and doubling down again on the "Famous" Taylor Swift drama -- "That’s why I called her!" Kanye said -- the rapper implored the audience to "have a good time," before shouting out his heroes and loved ones.
"I’m standing in front of my idol Puff Daddy. I’m standing in front of my wife Kim Kardashian West. I’m standing in front of the future, Chance the Rapper. 2 Chainz. Jayden Smith," Kanye said. "We are undeniably the influence, the thought leaders."
After name-dropping Taylor, ET observed some audience members cheering her name, while others booed them down.
EXCLUSIVE: Jay Pharoah Impersonates Kanye West, Talks Leslie Jones Bullying: 'Leave Her Alone'
And the speech was not without its serious moments.
"We came over in the same boat, now we’re all in the same bed. Well, maybe different boats," he said at one point. "If you think about last week, there was 22 people murdered in Chicago."
"I was speaking at the Art Institute last year and one kid came up to me and said, 'Three of my friends died, and I don’t know if I’m going to be next,'" Kanye continued. "If you’re seeing people dying next to you you might think, what’s the point? Life can start to feel worthless in a way."
As for "Fade," the incredibly sultry "Flashdance"-inspired video features artist Teyana Taylor doing a sizzling dance routine before being met by husband Iman Shumpert and the couple's 8-month-old daughter, Junie.
You can watch "Fade" exclusively on Tidal now.
One fan of the video was Kanye's sister-in-law, Kylie Jenner, who tweeted, "Kanye video CRAZYYYYYYYY wow  #VMAs  @TEYANATAYLOR @kanyewest."
The 19-year-old reality star also raved about her family's fashion, writing, "Kanye & Kim look so good."
Meanwhile, what we sadly didn't hear was an update on Kanye's 2020 presidential speech, which he announced while accepting the Vanguard Award at the VMAs last year.
Watch the video below for highlights from that.
Britney Spears returned to the show that made her an icon on Sunday night, performing "Make Me..." with an assist from rapper G-Eazy on the MTV Video Music Awards.
Following an introduction from Kim Kardashian, Britney emerged from behind a silk screen in a sheer bodysuit, showing off her enviable assets just barely hidden by a few well-placed yellow crystals. No doubt about it: the pop princess looked absolutely flawless, giving us all the best "Oops!... I Did It Again" fashion vibes from her unforgettable showing in 2000.
The 34-year-old added yet another delightfully sultry performance to her VMAs resume, grinding with G-Eazy -- even going in for a full-on crotch grab! The pair ran through her Glory hit, "Make Me...," before launching into the rapper's "Me, Myself & I," with Brit filling in on Bebe Rexha's chorus.
There was definitely some face-touching towards the end there, and just when we thought the duo might go in for the kiss -- Britney flashed that megawatt smile to the audience and offered up a sweet peck on the cheek.
FLASHBACK! Britney Speras Shares Photo From '...Baby One More Time' Video Shoot - 'Most Precious Day of My Life!' 
The performance comes just two days after Brit dropped her ninth studio album, Glory, and an unbelievable 15 years after she danced with that gigantic snake while performing "I'm a Slave 4 U" at the 2001 VMAs.
Fittingly, Britney reminisced about the memorable moment while teasing her latest performance. 
"The VMAs don’t give you a stage," she said in the video announcement, "They give you a story. Some way of taking a fraction of a second and making it live forever. Before you know it – it's history. Before you know it… it’s Britney b*tch."
Through good times and bad, Britney has always known how to deliver a talked-about VMA moment. Walk with us down memory line and we re-live five of her most major VMA performances over the years.
Dare to chop? Ashley Graham sure does, and she showed it off during Sunday night’s MTV Video Music Awards.
Just days after debuting a hot new long bob, Sports Illustrated swimsuit model Ashley Graham went even shorter, thanks to Renato Campora for Dove Hair. Clad in a revealing Naeem Khan gown, the 29-year-old switched from a lob to a straight-up bob and told ET’s Carly Steel that the new ’do is a bit of a game-changer.

Graham’s doting husband Justin Ervin didn’t hesitate to agree, telling ET, “She looks incredible, doesn’t she? I’m just the living accessory, I gotta make her look good!”
Ervin admitted that his jaw hit the floor when he first laid eyes on the America’s Next Top Model judge tonight, jokingly adding, “I had to have her assistant and stylist pick it up.”
Graham’s sexy VMA look was merely a sneak peek, as the model will be showcasing her new intimates line for Addition Elle during New York Fashion Week next month. “September 14th is my runway show,” the self-proclaimed body activist told us. “You can see all this sexiness walking down the runway in my lingerie.”
Hear more about Graham’s take on the term “plus-size” in the video below.
Well, this is awkward!
Calvin Harris took home the Moonman at the MTV Video Music Awards for Best Male Video for the mainstream hit “This Is What You Came For,” which features vocals by Rihanna and was secretly co-written by his ex-girlfriend Taylor Swift.

“Wow, wow! First of all, I’m so sorry I can’t be there. I have a show tonight in the U.K. otherwise I would definitely be there. MTV, this is crazy,” the 32-year-old Scottish DJ-music producer began his video message, before thanking RiRi. “I need to thank Rihanna from the bottom of my heart. You’re a superstar. Every time we work together you bring something so magical to the project, so thank you.”
Harris also took a moment to single out music video director Emil Nava for his creative vision, but avoided any mention of Swift, who co-wrote the song under the pen name Nils Sjoberg. In July, Swift’s rep confirmed to ET that she had contributed both writing and vocals to the track.

ET was on the scene at the VMAs, and following Harris’ win, boos were heard from the audience, though it wasn’t clear if it was because he skipped the awards show or didn’t give Swift recognition for her creative involvement with the song.
Fans took to Twitter to react to Harris’ presumed shade at the 26-year-old singer.

Kim Kardashian West wasn't sure what to wear, so she asked her fans for some advice.
The reality star hit the 2016 VMA Awards red carpet with husband Kanye West sporting a wet, dark hair look, and a sheer black dress -- a style she chose after tweeting out two polls to her fans.
"OK I will take a poll, what should I wear tonight?" the 35-year-old tweeted, asking her fans whether they preferred a "dressy sexy look" over "casual chill.” Dressy for the win!
"What color hair should I do for the #VMAs ????" Kim also asked, with dark narrowly winning out.
It was a quick hair turnaround for Kim, who appeared to have gone blonde for her VMA appearance in Snapchats she shared on Friday.
Watch the video below for that look.
Nicki Minaj took it all the way back at the MTV Video Music Awards.

Minaj, 33, was accompanied by her longtime love, rapper Meek Mill, and the two adorably posed for high school prom-style photos on the carpet.  So cute!
Minaj also took to Instagram to post about her head-turning look by designer Bao Tranchi, with a caption of an emoji of a winky face and a tongue sticking out.

“First of all, that’s not an engagement ring,” she said in April during an appearance on The Ellen DeGeneres Show. “I have two rings from this boy that likes me. That’s not my engagement ring though. He said, that’s my second ring, and he said if I get a third ring, then that’s my engagement ring.”
Over the past several days, Grande has been teasing her performance with Minaj and their forthcoming music video.
For more on Minaj’s relationship with Mill, watch the video below.
Team USA's women's gymnasts Aly Raisman, Simone Biles, Gabby Douglas, Laurie Hernandez, and Madison Kocian stole our hearts both on and off the mat. Check out all of the candid moments from the team, nicknamed the Final Five, during and after the 2016 Olympics in Rio.
Jay Pharoah is sticking up for his friend.
The outgoing Saturday Night Live star defended his castmate, Leslie Jones, to at the 2016 MTV VMA carpet on Sunday, after the 48-year-old comedian recently fell victim to online harassment, a website hack, and nude photo leak.
"That is my friend, people need to leave her alone," Pharoah, 28, told ET's Carly Steele. "She is a sweet, funny, talented person, and she has been in the game since I was born."She started doing comedy when I was born — so that was '87."
"She deserves all of her success for real," Pharoah added.
Meanwhile, Pharoah also busted out one of his famous rapper impressions, taking the time to walk us through how he impersonates 39-year-old musician Kanye West.
MORE: 8 VMA 2016 Rumors We Hope Are True: From Beyonce Performing to Ariana Grande as 'We've Never Seen Her'
"Kanye West always sounds like he's drowning, you know what I am saying?" Pharoah said before letting out a hilarious Yeezy gasp. "It's like there is a pool around him."
Hard to argue with him, it's pretty spot on!
Watch the video below for more on Jones' website hack.
Check out all of the amazing Video Music Awards looks!
The "Final Five" will be short a member when they present during tonight's MTV Video Music Awards.
The gold medal-winning U.S. women's gymnastics team -- Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, Madison Kocian, and Laurie Hernandez -- are slated to present at Sunday's awards show in New York City, but Douglas won't be in attendance.
Alongside a photo of herself lying in bed, the gold medalist tweeted, "Out of the hospital & resting comfortably! #FinalFive so sad I can't be with u all to present tonite@MTV thank u xoxo #VMAs."
While it was initially unclear why Douglas was hospitalized, ET’s Carly Steel confirmed details with Douglas’ fellow gymnasts on the VMA “white" carpet. "She had an allergic reaction, but she’s doing okay," Raisman told ET. "Something was a little swollen on her face. They’re having her rest, just in case."
Hernandez said that the infection wasn’t a major injury. "It's a little bit swollen, but we hope she can get better soon because we wish she could be here with us."
Kocian added, "She definitely wanted to be here."
Judging from a slew of rumors and hearsay surrounding tonight’s main event at Madison Square Garden, the VMAs are shaping up to be an epic ladies night -- and Britney Spears’ live performance is just the beginning.
Watch the clip below for some of Spears’ most iconic VMA moments.
Beyonce went full circle at the MTV Video Music Awards!
The “Formation” singer brought along her stylish 4-year-old daughter, Blue Ivy, to the VMAs at Madison Square Garden in New York City on Sunday, and the mother-daughter duo -- dressed to the nines in coordinating dresses -- absolutely slayed the “white” carpet.

Beyonce capped off the look with stunning Lorraine Schwartz jewels: Colombian emerald, pink diamond and paraiba earrings, valued at $1.8 million; a 12-carat pink diamond ring, valued at $9 million; and a $1.5 million wrap-around 20-carat diamond ring.

Beyonce and Blue Ivy also shared a cute candid family moment on the carpet, where cameras caught the two deep in conversation.
And when Beyonce arrives, everything else stops -- for good reason.

In June, the 34-year-old singer brought husband Jay Z and Blue Ivy to the CFDA Awards, where she received the CFDA Fashion Icon Award. But, it was her mini-me who stole the show.

Lou Pearlman was a complicated figure among the bands he managed.
Lance Bass talked to ET's Carly Steele on the 2016 MTV VMA red carpet Sunday, where he opened up about the 62-year-old manager, who died in prison last week while serving a 25-year sentence for orchestrating one of the largest Ponzi schemes in American history.
"You never want to hear [of] anyone passing away, and I will never speak ill of the dead," the 37-year-old singer explained, "but it's very conflicting feelings, of course."
Pearlman, who was convicted in 2008 for his involvement in a scheme that swindled 1,700 investors out of a half-billion dollars, was also sued by most of the acts he managed -- the Backstreet Boys, *NSYNC, O-Town, LFO, Take 5, Natural and Aaron Carter -- for fraud and misrepresentation.
EXCLUSIVE: AJ McLean on Lou Pearlman's Death: 'I'll Always Be Grateful for the Opportunity He Gave Me'
"We didn't have the best relationship at all, but if it wasn't for him I wouldn't have met four of my best friends," Bass added. "The worst way to go, I think, is dying in prison so... if you believe in karma, he got his in the end."
Bass and many of his fellow boybanders have expressed mixed emotions after Pearlman’s death.
Watch the video below for Justin Timberlake's condolences to his former manager.
Hope Solo will not be hitting the field -- any field -- in the near future.
The Seattle Reign FC of the National Women's Soccer League announced that the 35-year-old goalkeeper has been "granted a personal leave," and a return date has not been disclosed.
Solo's leave from the team comes just days after she was suspended for six months from the U.S. Soccer organization for conduct that they said was "counter to the organization's principles."
During an interview with Sports Illustrated's Grant Wahl, Solo referred to the Swedish team as "cowards" after they beat the U.S. team at the Summer Olympics in Rio, Brazil. "I thought that we played a courageous game," she said. "But I also think we played a bunch of cowards. The best team did not win today."
Solo,who was also suspended for 30 days in 2015, will not be eligible for the national team again until February.
Kelly Ripa and Mark Conseulos' oldest son is officially all grown up!
Michael, 19, headed off to college on Saturday, but before he left, he posed for a sweet photo with his younger siblings, 15-year-old sister, Lola, and 13-year-old brother, Joaquin.
MORE: Mark Consuelos on Living in L.A. With His Teenage Children: 'We're Like Roommates'
Kelly didn't get too teary-eyed in her Instagram caption, instead making a cute joke: "Saying goodbye to big bro, the college freshman. (Whilst conspiring to take over his bedroom.) 🎓👓📚🎬."
The Live With Kelly! host is clearly proud of her not-so-little boy. In June, she shared a photo of the high school graduate celebrating his next stage in life ahead of the whole family celebrating his big day at Locanda Verde restaurant in New York City.
"The Graduate, his father, his brother, his grandfather. Congratulations HE! We are so proud. 🎓🎉," she captioned the Instagram pic of the three generations of Consueloses.
There's been a ton of celebrating this summer, as the very next day, the family celebrated Lola's 15th birthday.
"Because yesterday was big bro's graduation we are officially celebrating Lola's 15th birthday today. Happy birthday Lola! We love you so much! #quince," she captioned a sweet Instagram pic of the birthday girl and her older brother.
It's hard to believe how grown up Kelly and Mark's kids are! It's not surprising, however, that they've got some of their parents' signature sass. In fact, when Michael attended the Nine Lives premiere with his dad and siblings last month, Lola threw a little shade at her famous father.
"I'm like, 'You're actually kind of cool. I didn't think so at first -- now I think you're cool,'" she told ET.
Hear more about their family outing in the video below.
When it comes to keeping love alive on the road, Gwen Stefani and her beau Blake Shelton have this whole long-distance thing down pat.
While Shelton, 40, was performing at Ashton Kutcher's Back Porch Revival benefit concert in Iowa City, Iowa, on Saturday night, Stefani was able to Periscope the gig from Fresno, California, where she was wrapping the latest leg of her This Is What the Truth Feels Like tour.
We're not sure if you can fangirl over your boyfriend, but the 46-year-old singer's adorable, emoji-filled comments sure make a case for it:
The show benefitted The Native Fund, an organization by Iowans for Iowans and co-founded by former NFL player Dallas Clark. Shelton's performance included a lot of praising the crowd and commenting on the wonderful event, and of course, nods to his usual drinking while singing.
After Periscoping, Stefani had her own show to put on, followed by a celebration of her summer tour with friends, dancers and crew. The soiree included Jello shots, which was apparently a new experience for the mom of three!
"I don't know, but they made these. They're called Jello shots. Have you seen those? I don't even drink, but I'm going to try it," Stefani said, just before adorably licking the cup.
As the party first got underway, the "Make Me Like You" singer was jokingly bummed by her lack of party guests, but the celebration quickly ramped up into high gear as friends like fashion designer Andrea Lieberman and concert crewmembers rolled in. Naturally, Stefani documented the whole thing on Snapchat.
Stefani and Shelton have been dating for nearly a year, and they keep their love alive by traveling together whenever possible. "I just like being with her, but when she's all dolled up and we go places, it's always fun for me," the Voice mentor told ET last spring. "If she was here right now, not one person here would be looking at anybody else but her."
For more on Stefani's romance with Shelton, watch the clip below.
Iggy Azalea appears to have moved on following her recent breakup from her former fiance, Nick Young.
Over the weekend, the 26-year-old "Fancy" rapper was seen vacationing with friends in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, along with French Montana. A video was even shared on social media of Khloe Kardashian's ex-boyfriend jokingly resting his head on Azalea's butt.
Montana, 31, also shared a photo of him and Azalea posing with friends, as well as a few videos.
The hip-hop artists' getaway comes just a month after they were spotted at a Las Vegas nightclub together. "Their interaction was friendly," an eyewitness told ET of the pair then.
In June, Azalea broke things off with Young after accusing him of cheating. "I broke up with Nick because I found out he had brought other women into our home while I was away and caught them on the security footage," she tweeted. "This is just like a second shot to the chest. I feel like I don't even know who the hell it is I've been loving all this time. People in this world really are f**ked up." Young replied a few days later, tweeting: "I live in a world where ppl f**k up learn from it and move on.”
Chicago police have charged two men in the alleged murder of Dwyane Wade's cousin.
Darwin Sorells, 26, and Derren Sorells, 22, are being held without bail, according to police.
Nykea Aldridge, 32, was pushing a baby stroller on Friday when she was shot. Police say the mother of four was not the intended target of the shooting, and the baby in the stroller was not struck by the gunfire. According to law enforcement, the suspects were targeting a for-hire driver.
"This reprehensible act of violence is the example of why we need to change the way we treat habitual offenders in the city of Chicago," police Superintendent Eddie Johnson said. "When will enough be enough? This tragedy isn't just noteworthy because Ms. Aldridge has a famous family member. It's noteworthy because these two offenders are the prime examples of ... repeat gun offenders who don't care who they shoot."
“My cousin was killed today in Chicago. Another act of senseless gun violence," Wade tweeted on Friday. "Four kids lost their mom for NO REASON. Unreal. #EnoughIsEnough."
Blac Chyna looks ready to pop, but that's not stopping her from hitting the gym.
Rob Kardashian's fiancee shared her workout routine on Snapchat, which involved some weight training. "Hey guys, so I decided that I’m actually going to start working out, and here I am! Back at it. Snap back," she announced.
Chyna -- who once said her goal was to gain 100 pounds during pregnancy -- also declared that she was going to begin eating better. “I started eating more clean and walking,” she captioned a video clip. “From 135 to 183 to 176.2.”
The 28-year-old model's fitness snaps come just a few days after she revealed how much weight she's gained while pregnant. “So I weighed in I’m 183lbs, and loving it! So far I gained 48lbs,” Chyna shared on Snapchat. “My goal weight after the baby will be 130lbs -- I was 135lbs b4 the baby. I truly believe I will be 200lbs when I delivery that’s 17lbs away.”
Chyna does have a plan to get the pounds off, sharing that she plans to go on a "strict diet," as well as "waist training, detox tea and working out." That sounds like a Kardashian plan!
In June, ET spoke with Chyna about her pregnancy. "[I feel] great!" she said. "Literally, I'm just all belly, so I'm feeling good."
No bitter exes here!
Less than a week after her split with longtime boyfriend Beau Casper Smart, Jennifer Lopez joined ex-husband Marc Anthony on stage during his “The Private Collection” concert series for a friendly duet to their pop Latin hit, “No Me Ames.”
Fans -- and a visibly surprised Anthony -- greeted the Shades of Blue actress with a warm welcome as she ascended the Radio City Music Hall stage wearing a glittering black gown with a revealing slit and plunging neckline.
The former couple, both 47, were clearly in their element throughout the song, smiling, laughing and dancing before embracing in a big hug following the performance.
The tender moment was shared across both singers’ social media accounts. “Always fun sharing the stage w this one... @marcanthony #NoMeAmes #radiocitymusichall #familia," Lopez wrote on Instagram. Anthony regrammed the photo shortly thereafter.
Despite their 2011 split, the divorced duo has made it a point to put their family and children first, as evidenced by Anthony’s #AllAboutFamily Instagram photo taken after the show that featured Lopez, their 8-year-old twins, Emme and Max, and his current wife, Shannon De Lima.
Just days before her breakup with Smart, Lopez echoed the family-first sentiment with a shout-out during her All I Have show in Las Vegas, where Anthony made an appearance. “You're an international legend and icon, but you're also my baby daddy,” she joked, as her ex took a bow.
The newly single hit maker is also reportedly “on good terms” with Smart, who announced plans to lay low for a while in a recent Instagram post.
Watch the video below for more on Lopez's Vegas performance.
Renee Zellweger is back and better than ever.
The Bridget Jones’s Baby star recently sat down with American Way magazine for their September issue and offered a candid insight into her motivation for leaving Hollywood in 2010 and why she chose to return.
“I planned to take some time off after Chicago, but there kept being once-in-a-lifetime experiences in front of me that I didn’t want to miss out on,” the 47-year-old actress explained of her career in Hollywood. “Then I learned you can’t keep doing that forever, so I chose to see what would happen if I did let that once-in-a-lifetime experience that was ahead of me go and just be still and see what I could build.”
The actress revealed that she traveled to Thailand, Cambodia and Liberia during her time off to work with a gender-equality charity she’s passionate about, noting that being in non-touristy areas was the most eye-opening part of her trip.
“I think traveling off the beaten path is a good idea for anybody because it’s essential for understanding not just the rest of the world but yourself,” she explained.
Despite broadening her horizons, Zellweger says that Bridget Jones is never far away from her.
“I smile a lot on red carpets in the midst of those moments that hopefully people won’t know about,” she mused of her connection to the beloved character. “I smile through the Bridget Jones moments. There are a million of them, all day, every day. But, I’m hopelessly hopeful. I’m an optimist. I guess I just believe that you’ve gotta laugh, have some humor.”
So why return to Hollywood?
“I craved the creative process again,” she revealed. “When I stopped making films, it was because it became more depleting than rewarding. It was because of the way I was living my life, and I don’t think you can be good in a creative medium if you aren’t grateful for the opportunity to participate. I started to miss it and I felt ready."
That feeling made reprising her iconic role for the third Bridget Jones film a "no-brainer."
“There’s this great reunion waiting in London with this character I love and all my friends who I’ve adored for years," she said. "It was an excellent excuse to go back.”
Bridget Jones’s Baby hits theaters Sept. 16.
Adrienne Bailon is so happy she's almost speechless!
The Real co-host appeared on Hollywood Today Live! on Friday to share some more details about her recent engagement to Christian singer-songwriter Israel Houghton.
“I’m so happy beyond words,” the 32-year-old singer gushed. “We were vacationing in Europe. We had just gone to Greece and ended up coming back to Paris, and I was surprised with my parents showing up in Paris. I didn’t know. There was some trickery going on.”
Bailon lived every girl’s dream when Houghton, 45, popped the question in front of the Eiffel Tower.
“It was honestly just magical,” she said. “My parents being there was so special to me. They actually were celebrating 20 years of marriage, and I thought originally that we were just celebrating them, and then obviously when the surprise happened, I was super excited and super happy."
"I can't wait," she added.
MORE: Kylie Jenner and Kourtney Kardashian Happily Hang With Rob Kardashian's Ex Adrienne Bailon
Bailon and her fiance dated for just six months before getting engaged, but she explained that they had a solid friendship before Houghton put a ring on it.
“We were friends for three years before!” the Cheetah Girls alum said. “I think that makes a big difference. Being older, you kind of know what you want. I think when you're younger, you have to date around -- kind of see what you like, what you don't."
“I’m gonna be 33 this year,” she continued. “I knew exactly what I wanted, and he is everything I wanted and more. He's awesome. He is my best friend. I think that makes such a big difference."
On the day of her engagement, Bailon shared a video of her diamond sparker with the Eiffel Tower in the background.
"You. Me. Oui," she captioned the Instagram video.
Bailon isn't the only one with some gorgeous bling. Blac Chyna, who's engaged to Rob Kardashian, has been showing off her massive rock. Check it out in the video below.
Justin Bieber is taking a little time away to celebrate Sofia Richie's birthday!
The 22-year-old pop star was spotted cuddling and passionately kissing his bikini-clad girlfriend in Cabo San Lucas, Mexico, on Saturday, according to Daily Mail. Bieber apparently also bared his behind during the trip.
Bieber and Richie jetted out of town on Friday in celebration of her birthday earlier this week, and Richie has been happily chronicled their vacation on social media.
Judging by the sweet Snapchat photos, it looks like Bieber pulled out all the stops for his model beau. Their weekend has included candles spelled out to say "love," flowers, and sunset views. Aw!
Richie captioned a pic of their bed on Saturday morning -- which featured an amazing beachside view of the ocean -- "Not getting up."
She even sweetly captioned a photo of their beach chair set-ups as simply "happy."
As if those snaps weren't jealous-inducing enough, Richie also shared a breathtaking pic of her beach view via Instagram.
Bieber is all about his new girl, even if that means he may never come back to Instagram. He deleted his account earlier in the month, after fans left some not-so-nice comments about Richie on his posts.
A little social media drama isn't enough to keep Bieber from Richie, however. Though he skipped her birthday dinner on Tuesday, he made it to her party later in the night.
Find out more Richie's birthday bash in the video below.
Marvel's black, female Iron Man has a new name!
Riri Williams, the 15-year-old heroine set to replace Tony Stark in the long-running Iron Man series, will be known as Ironheart.
The teenage superhero is expected to debut in the Invincible Iron Man #1 comic book in November, writer Brian Michael Bendis revealed in a Wired

interview on Monday.
According to Bendis, the name Ironheart was chosen because it "speaks not only to the soul of the character but to the Iron Man franchise as a whole."
MORE: All of the Marvel Cinematic Universe Movies, Ranked From Best to 'Iron Man 2'
It’s unclear when Ironheart will transition from comic books to the silver screen, but Disney actress Skai Jackson wouldn’t mind taking on that role.
Find out what Jackson loves about the comic book character in the video below.
Woody Allen is opening up like never before.
The 80-year-old director sat down with The Guardian and spoke candidly about his personal life and the many “traumas” he’s faced in the past -- including the repeated accusations of sexual abuse by daughter Dylan Farrow.
EXCLUSIVE: Kristen Stewart, Blake Lively and Parker Posey on What It Means to Star in a Woody Allen Film
“I have no interest in all of that,” the Café Society director said. “I find that all tabloid stupidity. That situation had been thoroughly, thoroughly investigated up and down the line by New York social services in a 14-month investigation. It had been investigated by Yale and conclusions were clear and I have no interest in that whole situation. I get harassed all the time on it. But it doesn’t affect me and I just have no interest in it.”
In a February 2014 op-ed for The New York Times, Dylan, one of Allen’s three children with ex Mia Farrow, accused Allen of molesting her when she was a child. Allen has continued to deny these claims, even after Dylan’s brother, Ronan Farrow, penned a guest column in The Hollywood Reporter defending his sister.
The original sexual assault claim in 1992 prompted an investigation that provided no credible evidence. Although Allen and his oldest son, Moses Farrow, have made amends, he is still estranged from Dylan and Ronan.
Despite this, he has found happiness with his wife, Soon-Yi Previn, 45, to whom he has been married for almost 20 years, saying, "I’m in a happy marriage." Nonetheless, he still has feelings of loneliness.
“I don’t have that many friends,” he said. “I lead a very isolated life. I come home and I’m with my family. I go to dinner with a few friends and, every once in a while, they’ll ask for advice, but it’s never existential.”
Allen confessed that one thing he does miss from his young life is the ability to play sports.
“I’ve been very lucky,” he said. “I’m in good health -- at least I think I am. Dementia hasn’t set in yet to any noticeable degree. Everything is fine, but I’m always consumed with sorrow that I can’t get out on a baseball field and play it the way I could. That, for me, is the most poignant.”
“I’d like to race against Usain Bolt,” he added jokingly. “But I’m not sure how well I’d do. I was always a very fast runner. But it’s possible that while I’m still running, he would be doing his post-race interview.”
Thought he enjoys his life as a director, Allen admitted that he sometimes wonders if he should stop making movies and write an autobiography.
“I would have to go through the many regrets in my life and the many turbulences,” he said. “But that’s OK. It’s conflict and excitement. It would be nice to write that out.”
By social media standards, consider this rumored couple confirmed!
Days after getting inked together at Shamrock Social Club in Los Angeles, Ariana Grande and Mac Miller have taken their relationship to Snapchat.
Reports surfaced that the duo were dating earlier this week after the two were spotted getting close on sushi dates and stealing kisses when they thought no one was watching. Though the 23-year-old singer has dodged questions about her rumored relationship, she had no problem showing Miller off on Snapchat.
Grande and Miller, who collaborated in 2013 on "The Way," cuddled up in several snaps posted to the "Dangerous Woman" singer's Snapchat on Saturday.
The two kept close as they tried on some fun filters, giggling and singing R. Kelly's "Bump and Grind." "My mind is telling me no, but  my body is telling me yes!" they sang out for Grande's followers as she leaned into the "Weekend" rapper.
Miller then appeared to grow a little tired during their car ride, cuddling up to Grande as he rested his head on her shoulder.
Grande also appeared very into the 24-year-old rapper as she smiled sweetly while stroking his face.
Now that they're Snapchat official, we'll be sure to keep an eye out to see if Miller cheers on his girl at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards. Grande is expected to take the stage to perform "Side to Side" with Nicki Minaj.
See more about the upcoming show in the video below.
The MTV Video Music Awards are almost upon us!
The show's performers are down to their last stretch before they take the stage on Sunday, and understandably, they couldn't be more excited.
Ariana Grande, who is set to perform "Side to Side" with Nicki Minaj, took to Instagram on Saturday to tease the upcoming live collaboration.
"Tomorrow #sidetoside 🚲 ♡@nickiminaj @hannahluxdavis @mtv," she captioned a video of herself whispering in Minaj's ear.
Future also teased his performance, sharing a cool, interactive 360 degree video on Facebook.
"Get ready for my performance at the Video Music Awards Tomorrow!!!!!! #FBG," he captioned the clip.
MTV geared up for the event with a few teases of their own as well.
First came a behind-the-scenes shot of Grande rehearsing on the VMA stage.
"💜 @arianagrande is in the building 💜 #VMAs," the snap's caption read.
Next was an image that required no explanation: a giant billboard of Queen Bey herself.
And, of course, MTV had to tease a little Kanye West, who will be given a full four minutes during Sunday's show to do what he does best -- and what will happen is anybody's guess.
MORE: 11 Times the MTV VMAs Was the Shadiest Awards Show Ever -- and We Love It!
See more about what to expect from Sunday's VMAs in the video below.
Jana Kramer is getting by with a little help from her fans.
The 32-year-old country star took to Instagram on Saturday to share an update with her followers, giving credit to her fans and her 6-month-old daughter, Jolie, for helping her get through this "extremely hard time."
EXCLUSIVE: Country Star Jana Kramer Splits From Husband Mike Caussin
"I just wanted to say thank you to all my fans for the love," she wrote alongside a sweet shot of herself kissing her baby girl. "This has been an extremely hard time but Jolie has given me more strength than I ever thought possible. Your continued support means the world too."
"Thank you from the bottom of my heart," she added.
Earlier this week, ET exclusively confirmed that Kramer and Caussin had separated. A source close to the couple revealed to ET that the NFL tight end is currently being treated in a rehabilitation center for undisclosed reasons.
Despite all this, Kramer has been on tour, promoting her latest album, Thirty One, and "trying to put on a brave face and do what's best for her daughter," a close friend of the singer's said, adding, "She's been devastated by this."
The former One Tree Hill star and Caussin, 29,  dated for almost a year before getting married in May 2015. The two welcomed Jolie in January.
It was happier times for the couple just a few months ago when ET caught up with Kramer at the Academy of Country Music Awards in April, where she gushed about her life as a new mom.
See more in the video below.
Nate Parker admits he's "still learning."
Following recent controversy surrounding his 1999 rape case and the subsequent interviews he's given to Variety and Deadline, the 36-year-old writer, director, and actor sat down for an exclusive interview with Ebony magazine, where he got candid about rape culture and what advice he would give to his 19-year-old self if he could go back in time.
Parker, now 36, was acquitted in a 2001 trial after an 18-year-old female classmate at Pennsylvania State University accused Parker and then-roommate Jean Celestin (who also co-wrote Birth of a Nation with Parker) of sexual assault. Celestin was initially found guilty, but his conviction was later overturned on an appeal.
"I gotta be able to look at it and say, well, you know, I have engaged in hyper-male culture," he told Ebony about the decade-old case that is now making headlines. "And I'm learning about it, and I'm learning how I can change and help young boys and young men change."
The Birth of a Nation star, who faced criticism after trying to address the case head-on in interviews with Deadline and Variety earlier this month, says he now knows that his previous statements reflected a lack of awareness. Parker even calls his comments "insensitive" and "nonchalant."
"I called a couple of sisters that [I] know that are in the space that talk about the feminist movement and toxic masculinity, and just asked questions," he said. "What did I do wrong? Because I was thinking about myself. And what I realized is that I never took a moment to think about the woman. I didn't think about her then, and I didn't think about her when I was saying those statements, which as wrong and insensitive."
"I was acting as if I was the victim," he added. "And that's wrong. I was acting as if I was the victim because I felt like, my only thought was that I'm innocent and everyone needs to know. I didn't even think for a second about her, not even for a second."
Parker's candidness about his lack of concern for the woman involved in his case -- who committed suicide in 2012 -- led to a conversation about consent, and his understanding of the word back when he was a student at Penn State. Parker revealed at age 19, he didn't know "very much" about the concept.
"Put it this way, when you're 19, a threesome is normal. It's fun. When you're 19, getting a girl to say yes, or being a dog, or being a player, cheating. Consent is all about -- for me, back then -- if you can get a girl to say yes, you win," he said, revealing that his idea of consent in college was all about gauging whether or not a woman was "down," rather than actually asking her.
"Asking that question outright when I was younger? No," he simply stated.
"At 19, if a woman said no, no meant no. If she didn't say anything and she was open, and she was down, it was like, 'How far can I go?" Parker elaborated. "It was simply if a woman said no or pushed you away that was non-consent," he said, explaining that he's now "learning" how to interpret body language.
"I'm 36-years-old and I'm learning about definitions that I should have known when I started having sex," he confessed, adding that he's trying to be open about consent with his daughter, who just went off to college.
"I have talked to her about it all," he shared. "I mean, there's a 1999 lens and then there's a 2016 lens, and I think there's a hyper-sensitivity -- as there should be -- to what's happening around campuses."
The director concluded his comments to Ebony with an apology, stating that he has "a lot of work to do within myself."
"All I can do is seek information that'll make me stronger, that'll help me overcome my toxic masculinity, my male privilege, because that's something you never think about. You don't think about the other people," he said. "I recognize as a man there's a lot of things that I don't have to think about. But I'm thinking about them now."
Kendra Wilkinson has "given in" and gotten Botox!
Despite her fear of needles, the 31-year-old former reality star headed to a med spa in Los Angeles on Thursday for the procedure, documenting the whole thing on Snapchat!
"So I'm finally giving in. I'm doing Botox for the first time ever, all because of Jessica," Wilkinson said, referencing her Playboy pal Jessica Hall, who accompanied her to the doctor's office.
The former Girls Next Door star began her Snapchat story by guiding her followers through spots around her forehead, eyes, and mouth that she wanted to get treated.
Once inside, however, the mother of two revealed she's surprised by how well her skin has kept up. "What I like about my skin is, I think it’s… not aging as much as I thought it would at this time," she said. "I thought it would because of all the drugs I've done!"
While the Kendra on Top star admitted she "had butterflies" going into the procedure, after the fact, she revealed it wasn't so bad. "Popped my cherry!" she captioned a snap of herself giving a thumbs up after the injection.
Wilkinson also took to Instagram to express her satisfaction with the treatment.
"So I got my first Botox treatment today by Dr. Alex at @a_e_skin and I felt so comfortable and am so happy with how everything went," she said. "I finally did it."
And a few days later, it was back to Snapchat for Wilkinson, who showed off the results.
LOOK: Kristin Cavallari, Kendra Wilkinson and More Hot Celeb Moms Hit ‘Bad Moms’ Carpet
Wilkinson definitely isn't afraid to keep it real. Just a few months ago, the former Playboy model took to Instagram to share a close-up shot of her stomach and stretch marks after giving birth to 6-year-old son Hank Jr. and 2-year-old daughter Alijah.
"Look what my two babies did… They made me happy," she captioned the candid snap.
See more in the video below.
Aly Raisman gets the hero’s welcome she deserves!
The 22-year-old gymnast, who received three medals at the 2016 Rio Olympics, was surprised by her hometown of Needham, Massachusetts on Saturday with a day in her honor!
The suburban Boston town deemed the day "Aly Raisman Day," and subsequently paraded the Olympian around on a local firetruck.
Raisman understandably couldn't contain her excitement.
"Today is Aly Raisman day in Needham," she shared on Instagram. "THANK YOU Needham (that's me on the fire truck 😊😊😊)."
The former Dancing With the Stars contestant also posted a snap of the adorably patriotic outfit she picked out for the special day.
"Outfit for the rally today :) So excited to see you all. Thank you Needham for putting this together and everyone for coming out. Can't wait to see you all and can't thank you enough for all the support!! Go USA 💋," she wrote, along with her OOTD.
But Rasiman's neighbors in Needham aren't the only ones cheering her on.
Just two days earlier, the celebrated gymnast discovered a couple of very famous admirers.
"@Aly_Raisman I don't want to seem forward but I feel like we would be friends please?" Chrissy Teigen tweeted at Raisman on Thursday. "We love you!"
"OMG YES. I love u and ur husband. Can we please be best friends & can I send ur daughter some of my leotards?" she wrote back.
A few back and forths -- and an interlude by John Legend, who insisted his "uneven bars game is crazy" -- later, Teigen seemed to have found herself part of Raisman's winning squad.
However, it'll be the Olympic champion's gymnastics squad that she'll be rolling with on Sunday, at the MTV Video Music Awards.
See more on what's next for the Final Five in the video below.
The celebrity cast for season 23 of Dancing With the Stars just keeps getting better!
Olympic gymnast Laurie Hernandez will be competing for the coveted mirror ball trophy, sources confirm to ET.
The 16-year-old athlete from Team USA is freshly back in the United States following her impressive victories at the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Hernandez won silver on the balance beam, and gold in the women's team all-around.
While there's no word on whether or not pro Mark Ballas will return, it sounds like he could make a perfect partner for Hernandez. "I absolutely adore @lzhernandez02 just gorgeous," he tweeted on Aug. 10. "#starpower #needadanceteacher? #RioOlympics2016."
The full cast won't be revealed until Aug. 30 on Good Morning America (ABC doesn't comment on casting speculation), but multiple sources have confirmed to ET that Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte, Brady Bunch star Maureen McCormick, singer-songwriter Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, model Amber Rose, The Fosters actor Jake T. Austin, General Hospital actress Emma Samms and Little Women: LA star Terra Jole will all be joining Hernandez on the dance floor. 7th Heaven star Beverley Mitchell is reportedly still in talks as well.
As for the pros, another source confirmed to ET that Derek Hough will be back, and his sister, Julianne, is officially returning as a judge.
Maksim Chmerkovskiy and his brother, Val, will also return to the dance floor, along with Emma Slater, Witney Carson, Sharna Burgess, Artem Chigvintsev, Lindsay Arnold, Sasha Farber, Gleb Savchenko and Allison Holker.
DWTS premieres Monday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC. Watch the video below to hear more updates on the star-studded cast!
Kylie Jenner and Tyga have taken their love to Las Vegas!
The couple headed to Sin City on Friday, documenting highlights from their trip via social media. But the two weren't alone -- the "Rack City" rapper's 3-year-old son, King Cairo, was also on board!
Kylie took to Instagram to share a photo of her and Tyga cuddled up next to each other and mid-kiss on their private jet.
Apparently, it was a "last minute" adventure for the 19-year-old reality star and her beau, who later performed at Drai's Nightclub at The Cromwell.
PHOTOS: Kylie Jenner and Tyga Sport Matching Outfits for Romantic Date Night
King, clad in a red-and-white combo with matching kicks, looked as relaxed as ever during the flight. "Flyer than ur kid," Tyga wrote over the Snapchat pic of his stylish son, whom he shares with Rob Kardashian's fiancé, Blac Chyna.
Too cute!
Meanwhile in Los Angeles, Kylie's sisters, Kendall Jenner and Kim Kardashian West, were having a little trouble with their transportation while heading to Kanye West's "Famous" exhibition. Kim claimed that Uber, a popular car service app, had banned Kendall.
"Ugh I have to drive @KendallJenner around tonight bc she's banned from Uber!" the Selfish author tweeted.  "Why @Uber?!?! She's a "model" passenger!!!!!"
On Saturday, however, an Uber source confirmed to ET that Kendall "has not been banned."
"It was a minor account issue that is being resolved," the source added. "While it is being resolved her account was put on hold. Uber support has reached out."
Hear more in the video below.
Lou Pearlman’s tarnished legacy will live on.
A week after the disgraced Backstreet Boys and *NSYNC manager died, Magnet Management and Conde Nast have acquired the rights to a recent article about Pearlman, intending to develop the story as a limited series for television, ET confirms. 
Pearlman, who ran a $300 million Ponzi scheme, died on Aug. 19 at the Federal Correctional Institute in Miami Florida, where he was serving a 25-year sentence for his crimes.
The developing series will draw from the recent New Yorker article titled, "We Live in a Pop-Culture World that Lou Pearlman Created," telling the story of Pearlman's rise from struggling business owner to music mogul, as well as his fall to fraud.

While his acts (all except US5) ended up suing the boy band impresario for misrepresentation and fraud, many expressed mixed reactions to his death.
EXCLUSIVE: AJ McLean on Lou Pearlman's Death: 'I'll Always Be Grateful for the Opportunity He Gave Me'
Backstreet Boy member AJ McLean recently opened up to ET on Pearlman's death, saying he had "already made his personal peace" with his former manager.
"I had very mixed emotions," McLean shared. "I think he was in the place he deserved to be -- prison -- but I am still sad at the way he died, at that he was alone."
"I'll always remember Lou as 'Big Poppa' and be grateful for the opportunity he gave me," he added.
Former *NSYNC member Justin Timberlake took to Twitter to express his condolences.
"I hope he found some peace," he tweeted on Sunday. "God bless and RIP, Lou Pearlman."
See more on Timberlake's statement, as well as other reactions to Pearlman's death in the video below.
Happy Birthday, Aaron Paul!
The Breaking Bad star turned 37 on Saturday, and while most of his fans were tweeting him variations of his character's famous "Yeah, b***h!" line (like, "HAPPY BDAY BETCH!!!), his wife, Lauren, switched up the humor with a sweet message that is sure to melt your heart.
"You are perfect to me," the blond beauty, 29, adorably captioned a photo of the two cuddling underneath an umbrella. "You make everyone around you feel special. Your generosity and compassion knows no bounds."
And if that wasn't cute enough, just wait… there's more!
"There is no one I would rather run through the streets with during a thunder storm," she continued. "I loved this day so much. I love every day with you."
"I know we will still be running through the rain holding each other's wrinkly hands one day and that makes me smile," the Kind Campaign founder concluded. "Happy birthday my love. @glassofwhiskey 🎂"
Aaron and Lauren fell head-over-heels for each other at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California. "We met at Coachella, became friends. And then a year later, we fell in love at Coachella," Aaron gushed during an interview with GQ magazine in 2012. "We ran off together at Coachella. You know, first kiss on the Ferris wheel sort of thing."
In January of that same year, Aaron popped the question while the two were in Paris, France. They tied the knot in Malibu, California, in May 2013. "A day will never go by without me reminding you how special you are," Aaron captioned a snap taken at their wedding reception. "Thanks for last night my pretty little bird."
One year later, Aaron couldn't stop praising his wife during his speech at the Emmys. Hear his adorable words in the video below.
Jenni “JWoww” Farley has got some new ink!
While fans of the former Jersey Shore star are familiar with a few of her trademark tattoos (she has a tiger on her upper thigh, tributes to her grandmother and daughter on her shoulders, and a dragon on her ribcage) this time Farley has gone big -- debuting a huge Disney-inspired sleeve on the cover of Inked magazine!
The mother of two got all dolled up to grace the cover of the magazine's October issue, pairing her new sleeve with a sexy new look! And while the former reality star gets pretty racy for the spread, she insists it’s all about proving that new moms still got it!
"I did a cover with Inked magazine in the past and wanted to work with them again," Farley tells ET. "I think everyone believes that once you have kids that you have to change your image. I wanted to do the cover for all the millennial moms out there to show them they can be sexy, successful and strong and still be a great mom. My tattoo and the photos came out exactly how I envisioned it!"
"The sleeve to me represents my love for Disney as well as my version of the reality of Disney stories. It's the happily never after," she adds.
JWoww's sleeve is definitely one of a kind. While at first glance, the body art looks like a tribute to famous Disney characters, Farley was more interested in portraying a darker side to Disney.
"I wanted a knight in shining armor on a white horse riding into the sunset," she tells Inked of her childhood dreams inspired by Disney. "Once I realized that wasn't going to happen, I was screwed up for a little bit. As you grow up, you realize that relationships are hard work and that nobody's life is going to be a Disney movie."
That doesn't mean Farley isn't living a fairytale with husband Roger Mathews, who she happily describes as the "love of her life," but "every day isn't 'Once upon a time,'" she says. "You have to put in work and compromise with the one you decide to be with."
Farley also put in quite some time getting the tattoo, which was done by former Ink Master contestant Sarah Miller, who tattooed the former reality star both at Inked’s Empire State Tattoo Convention, as well as at Farley's house in New Jersey.
But the YouTube star is seeing a much different side of the Garden State these days. "Back when I was on Jersey Shore I was young and dumb and living it up with no responsibilities," she shares. "But I have no regrets. The phenomenal experiences I had in my early 20s allowed me to grow into this human being that I am now."
"Your motivations change when you get older. I can't party like I used to and I don't even try anymore. Because I am up every day at 6:30 to 7 o'clock, I'm in bed by 9 every night," says JWoww, mom to 2-year-old daughter Meilani and newborn son Greyson. "I truly value that I am a kickass mom, wife and businesswoman while I am also a hot, sexy millennial mom who is on the cover of Inked."
Businesswoman is another title Farley has been hard at work on lately. The New Jersey native is set to formally announce the launch her mew makeup line, JWoww Cosmetics, at Sunday's VMAs. The line, which Farley has been working on for the past six months, includes multiple colors of kiss-proof, cruelty-free lip stains, liners and balms.
Everyone can now rest easy -- Kendall Jenner is not banned from Uber after all!
"She has not been banned," an Uber source confirmed to ET on Saturday. "It was a minor account issue that is being resolved. While it is being resolved her account was put on hold. Uber support has reached out."
Rumors started swirling that the 20-year-old reality star was banned from the car service app after her sister, Kim Kardashian West, tweeted, "Ugh I have to drive @KendallJenner around tonight bc she's banned from Uber!"
"Why @Uber?!?!" the Selfish author continued. "She's a "model" passenger!!!!!"
In typical fashion, Kim also took to Snapchat to discuss her concerns. "Ok Uber, we want to know," Kim said in the video, as Kendall chimed in asking, "Why did you ban me?"
"Yeah, she's suspended," Kim, who was sporting a long blond wig, added. "This is not fair. So we just want to know, why was Kendall suspended, because she's literally like a model passenger."
"I'm the best client," Kendall claimed, laughing. "I don't understand."
The two were on their way to a "secret art gallery location," where they got to view Kanye West's "Famous" exhibition.
The display featured the lifelike copies of Kim, Kanye, Taylor Swift, Ray J, Amber Rose, Donald Trump, Anna Wintour, Caitlyn Jenner, Chris Brown, Rihanna, George W. Bush and Bill Cosby that made their debut in Kim's husband's controversial music video in June.
Kanye was unable to be there in person (he's currently on the road for his Saint Pablo Tour which continues in Buffalo, New York, on Saturday), but he did Skype in, as an adorable video from Kim's Snapchat revealed.
To hear more on the 39-year-old rapper's "Famous" music video, watch the video below.
Dwyane Wade's cousin, Nykea Aldridge, was shot and killed while pushing a stroller in Chicago on Friday. She was 32.
Wade confirmed the news on Twitter, writing, "My cousin was killed today in Chicago. Another act of senseless gun violence. 4 kids lost their mom for NO REASON. Unreal. #EnoughIsEnough."
"The city of Chicago is hurting," the 34-year-old NBA pro continued in a series of tweets. "We need more help & more hands on deck. Not for me and my family but for the future of our world. The YOUTH! These young kids are screaming for help!!!"
According to CNN, Aldridge was heading to an elementary school when several men started shooting at each other. Two of the bullets struck Aldridge, one in the head and another in her arm. She was taken to Stroger Hospital where she was pronounced dead upon arriving. The child was not injured.
On Saturday, Presidential candidate Donald Trump also confirmed the news and weighed in on the tragedy via Twitter.
"Dwyane Wade's cousin was just shot and killed walking her baby in Chicago," he wrote. "Just what I have been saying. African-Americans will VOTE TRUMP!"
Trump's original tweet misspelled Wade's name. He deleted the post, then re-tweeted the same message with the correction, which received a lot of backlash from users of the popular app, who wrote things like, "YOU ARE DISGUSTING," "Buddy, you're a lame-o," and "how could you use someone else's tragedy as a way to campaign for yourself?"
Actor Don Cheadle also had a message for Trump -- "you are truly a POS."
"Sorry," he continued, "I misspelled "die in a grease fire."
Following the backlash, Trump tweeted, "My condolences to Dwyane Wade and his family, on the loss of Nykea Aldridge. They are in my thoughts and prayers."
Wade, who was raised in Chicago and recently signed with the Chicago Bulls following 13 years with the Miami Heat, has been an advocate for gun violence awareness. During the opening ceremony at the ESPY's in July, the athlete took the stage to deliver a powerful call to action against racial injustice and gun violence in America with fellow NBA players Carmelo Anthony, LeBron James and Chris Paul.
"We cannot ignore the realities of the current state of America. The events of the past week have put a spotlight on the injustice, distrust and anger that plagued so many of us. The system is broken," Anthony explained. "The problems are not new. The violence is not new. And the racial divide is definitely not new. [But] the urgency to change is at an all-time high."
"The racial profiling has to stop," Wade added. "The shoot-to-kill mentality has to stop. But also, the retaliation has to stop. The endless gun violence in places like Chicago, Dallas and Orlando — it has to stop," Wade said. "Enough is enough."
Kim Kardashian is a blonde!
Following a much talked-about Mexican vacay, where the 35-year-old reality star Snapchatted multiple bikini pics and twerking videos, Kardashian was surprisingly silent on Friday -- until she revealed her new lighter locks! Kardashian is expected to present at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards. 
While this isn't the first time Kardashian has gone blonde (the mother of two sported a platinum blonde wig at Kanye West's Yeezy Season 3 fashion show in February, and brought the blonde back earlier this year), her dark roots and hours of being absent on social media lead us to believe she spent the day dying her brunette tresses.
"What do you think? Dark lip tonight with my blonde hair?" she asked her followers Friday night before getting her makeup touched up.
"OK guys, I changed the lip. Couldn't go light… I mean dark," she updated minutes later.
Shortly before unveiling her new look on Snapchat, the Keeping Up With the Kardashians star took to Twitter to tease another secret: the location of her husband's Famous exhibition.
"Heading to a secret art gallery location to view Kanye's Famous Exhibition!!!!" she tweeted Friday night.
Kardashian isn't the only one who recently changed up her look. The Selfish author's soon-to-be sister-in-law, Blac Chyna, recently Instagrammed a couple photos from what appear to be shots from her upcoming reality show, looking very much like a Kardashian.
See more in the video below.
Happy National Dog Day!
There's few things a Hollywood star can count on more than their furry friends. Dogs have been there for our favorite celebs through thick and thin, great for Instagram likes, workout buddies, and always there to keep a good secret.
It's no wonder the stars came out on Friday to pay tribute to their four-legged companions. Check out a few of our favorite National Dog Day pics below.
John Stamos took to Instagram on Friday to share an adorable photo of himself swimming with his dog, Frieda, though pics like these aren’t uncommon on the 53-year-old actor’s page. Stamos’ Instagram is full of cute puppy pics of Frieda and his other dog, Linka, who died last week. 
Kate Upton has somehow passed down her photogenic genes to her dog, Harley! The model and her pooch shared a cute smooch in celebration of the holiday on Friday, and couldn’t look better while doing it.
Gina Rodriguez and her pup Casper have grown so close, they're starting to look alike! The Jane the Virgin star and her furry friend showed off their Snapchat filter mastery on Instagram.
Russell Wilson took a break from newlywed life to gush about his dogs, Prince and Naomi. "Best Dogs Ever!" Wilson wrote on Instagram, along with a snap of his two great danes looking out at a lake. "Early Mornings Sitting on the porch!"
Check out more sweet shots below.
While many celebs paid tribute to their dogs, Zac Efron was remembering his dog, Puppy, in a different way. The 28-year-old actor announced that Puppy had died with a touching post on Instagram on Thursday night.
"Through thick and think you’ve always been my best friend. I'll see you at the finish line, RIP Puppy Efron," he wrote.
See more in the video below.
Sean "Diddy" Combs and Cassie appear to still be going strong, despite breakup rumors.
The 46-year-old Bad Boy Records mogul celebrated Cassie turning the big 3-0 on Friday with a sweet photo montage on Instagram.
"HAPPY BIRTHDAY BABY! @cassie I LOVE YOU ALWAYS. GOD BLESS YOU," Diddy wrote alongside several heart emojis and a crown.
Cassie seemingly squashed split rumors by Instagramming a pic of herself on Sunday. In a pic where the singer rocks a black bikini and red leather jacket, she captioned, "We always good."
A few days later, Diddy reposted the same picof Cassie with the caption, "Always."
MORE: Jay Z Delivers Surprise Performance at Diddy's Bad Boy Reunion Concert Following 'Lemonade' Drama
Rumors that Diddy and Cassie called it quits emerged after a reported argument that resulted in cops being called.
While the couple is certainly on again (or maybe they were never off?), Diddy isn't known to have bad blood with exes.
Watch Diddy reunite with his ex-girlfriend, Jennifer Lopez, in the video below.
Champagne Papi’s got some moves!
Rihanna got quite the surprise while driving around Los Angeles on Friday when she happened upon a billboard with her name on it.
That's right, Drake took out a giant billboard for RiRi, which is located right off the La Tijera exit on the 405 freeway.
While the 29-year-old rapper didn't exactly profess his love for the "Diamonds" singer, he did offer his congratulations for the Video Vanguard Award Rihanna will be receiving at MTV's Video Music Awards on Sunday.
"Congratulations to Rihanna from Drake and Everyone at OVO," the billboard reads.
Of course, Rihanna couldn't be more touched by the giant surprise. "When he extra ❤🏆!!!" she wrote alongside a photo of the billboard on Instagram.
While the pair have yet to confirm they're more than just friends, just last month Drake gave a sweet shout-out to the Barbadian beauty in concert.
"Shout-out to the most beautiful, talented woman I've ever seen in my life," he told the crowd after joining Rihanna on stage for their duet, "Work," at her Manchester, England show. "She goes by the name of Rihanna… I'm getting my heart broken."
But back to Sunday's VMAs. Rihanna and Drake will have even more to celebrate, as MTV announced on Friday that the "Sledgehamer" singer will be opening the show.
See more of what to expect from the VMAs in the video below.
Now this is what we call relationship goals!
Joe Manganiello, 39, and his beautiful wife Sofia Vergara, 44, looked happier than ever in some adorable pics posted on Friday, showing the couple enjoying each other's company during an afternoon out.
"Afternoon tea with my wife," Manganiello tweeted.
Earlier in the day, Vergara shared some Instagram shots of her food, along with some funny captions.
"You are too small for me," Vergara wrote about one tiny dish.
"I don't know what u are but I'm gonna have to eat u," she wrote about another.
"Tea time" seems to be a regular occurrence for the celebrity power couple who often share their most lovey-dovey moments.
June marked the second anniversary of when the pair started dating.
Manganiello popped the question during the couple's Hawaiin vacation in December 2014 being together for six months. They tied the knot in November 2015 at The Breakers Palm Beach resort in Florida.
Now we know where Kylie Jenner gets her style inspiration!
A day after big sis Kendall was spotted walking the streets of Los Angeles exposing her black bra through a ripped up T-shirt, Kylie has followed suit.
The 19-year-old reality star took to Instagram to show off her copy-cat look, posting several pics of the racy style.
Jenner first shared a captionless snap of herself, letting her ripped-up vintage “Nothin' But a G Thang" tee speak for itself as her back bra peeked through.
"Dirty peach on the lips," Jenner captioned another pic of herself, this time on her way out of the house.
Judging by her later Snapchats, it seems Kylie kept the racy look contained to the car as she went for a drive with her on-again boyfriend Tyga. Kendall, however, flew solo while she rocked her ripped-up Metallica tee around West Hollywood, before meeting up with friends for some coffee.
See more on the Jenners' unique style in the video below.
Jimmy Kimmel is at it again!
To celebrate the upcoming release of Kanye West's Yeezy sneakers for kids and the launch of his Saint Pablo tour, the 48-year-old comedian hilariously pranked a few sneaker enthusiasts on Jimmy Kimmel Live.
What they thought was a sneak peak of Kanye West’s Yeezy Boost 1150 sneakers (which aren’t even real shoes, by the way), was actually a pair of kicks that Kimmel bought off eBay for $13.20.
"This is really, really classic," says a self-proclaimed "shoe guy," as he closely inspects the fake Yeezys.
One woman admired the sneaker;s "fancy" design, while another man who claimed to work in fashion gave his stamp of approval. "These are legit," he says.
"They seem to be well-made," adds another man, who inspects everything from the sole to the tongue of the shoe. "They're Adidas so you can’t really go wrong there."
Another woman notes the "soft and smooth" material. "It feels lovely," she says.
MORE: Kanye West to Open 21 'Life of Pablo' Pop-Up Shops Worldwide This Weekend Only
"They don’t feel like they’re a cheap shoe, whatsoever," another man says with confidence.
Though West has promised to lower the price points, his Yeezys typically retail for around $200 -$350 a pair. However, Kimmel’s prank proves that it’s hard to tell the difference between the real deal, and a cheap knockoff.
West’s Adidas collaboration hasn’t come without a tiny bit of drama, namely when his sister-in-law, Kylie Jenner, singed a deal with Puma. See more in the video below.
Kelly Clarkson has "Love on the Brain"!
The 34-year-old singer covered Rihanna's soulful love song during a Facebook Live on Friday, and we must say she absolutely killed it!
Clarkson performed the song for her fans in celebration of Friday's release of several live covers on her website. The American Idol alum's collection includes covers of Coldplay's "Fix You," Florence and the Machine's "Shake It Out" and the Dixie Chicks' "Top of the Word," among others.
While her Rihanna cover isn't among the songs available for download on her website, Clarkson was sure to give RiRi props ahead of her Facebook Live performance.
"I just love this song, @rihanna kills it! #LoveOnTheBrain," she tweeted.
Check out Clarkson's stripped-down version of "Love on the Brain," accompanied by just an acoustic guitar and keyboard, below.
As for the ballad's original singer, she's got a lot of love for the song too.
Rihanna announced on Instagram earlier this week that "Love on the Brain" would be her next single with a little clip of a recent concert performance.
Rihanna, who performed the song at the Billboard Music Awards earlier this year,  is set to accept the Video Vanguard Award at the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday.
See more about the upcoming show in the video below.
Anna Chlumsky and her husband, Shaun So, welcomed their second child, Clara Elizabeth, on Thursday, July 28, ET can confirm.
The happy couple, who wed in 2008, are already parents to 3-year-old daughter Penelope Joan.
Prior to giving birth, Chlumsky revealed one of her biggest pregnancy cravings. "With this pregnancy, I want Japanese food all the time," she told Carson Daly in May, "I want sushi!"
Last year, the 35-year-old Veep star opened up to ET about motherhood and whether her daughter, Penelope, has changed her outlook on her breakout film, My Girl. 
"Not so much," she said. "It was three months of my life when I was 10. I think I have perspective on everything that has happened since that movie -- on childhood and being a kid. I think I'm applying my perspective to raising her. I don't necessarily think kids need to be professionals. And I felt that way before her and it'll just apply, I think."
Chlumsky admitted she hasn't thought about whether she will watch her 1991 film with her daughter when she's old enough.
"Possibly. I just so haven't even crossed that bridge yet," she said. "I'm just trying to figure out how much we're supposed to let her use the iPad."
All eyes are on Ashley Graham!
The Sports Illustrated swimsuit model turned heads in New York City on Thursday as she headed to the set of America's Next Top Model in a glitzy, bodyhugging ensemble.
Graham, who is a judge on the upcoming season of the hit VH1 show, donned a sparkly nude-and-blue, wide-legged Michael Kors jumpsuit, which showed off her ample cleavage and jaw-dropping curves.
Her booty was also on full display, as she flashed a "smize" to photographers capturing her pic. (We think it's safe to say, Tyra Banks would be very proud.)
The 29-year-old model later shared a selfie of the look via Instagram, highlighting her flawless light brown tresses and the jumpsuit's plunging neckline.
"2nd look of the day for @antmvh1," she captioned it. "@makeupvincent @andrewfitzsimons."
ET caught up with the self-proclaimed body activist in May, where she explained why she's not a huge fan of the term "plus-size."
"I have a community of women who love to be called that, and there's a community of women who don't, and it's terrible that it’s a constant conversation," she confessed. "But at the end of the day, I'm a woman, I am a model and I'm happy exactly where I am."
She also opened up about her relationship with food, telling ET's Lauren Zima that every day is "a challenge."
"I still have my moments where I will pig out, but I always balance it out with a really hard work out, or the next day -- I really, I don't beat myself up over it -- so I'll eat healthy the next day," Graham dished.
"It's one of those things where my relationship with food is my own journey, like every other woman that I know, and it's a matter of just mapping it out for myself, and not being discouraged," she added.
Hear more in the video below.
Britney Spears' Glory has arrived in all its glory!
The 17-track album could easily be considered Spears' best work since In the Zone and Blackout, kicking off with a cool mix of slow- and mid-tempo jams before launching into a full-fledged dance party. Still, somewhere along this global ride -- the pop star brings an infectious Spanish flair to "Change Your Mind (No Seas Cortes)," delicious tranquility on the French "Coupure Électrique," and even brings a hint of British-Brit  on ''If I'm Daaaancing" -- we were left with a few questions. Like...
1. Why Is It Called Glory?
Britney albums usually get their titles via fairly straightforward avenues -- Oops, I Did It Again and Circus come from song titles, Britney and Britney Jean are her name -- though there are outliers, such as In The Zone and Femme Fatale. So, why Glory? It's not the name of any track on the album.
Turns out the explanation is so simple a kid could think it up -- because one did. "My son [Preston, 10] actually came up with the name Glory. He was like, 'Mom, you are going to feel glorious once this is over,'" she explained to iHeartRadio. "He's really proud of that."
2. Why Wasn't Glory Released During the Summer?
You could argue that we're still clinging to the last days of summer -- and "Make Me...," the lead single, did debut in July -- but the entire record should have dropped back in June, in our humble opinion. It's chock full of full-on bangers! We are retroactively making the Bieber-esque "Better" our official Song of the Summer. Because it would have and should have been.
3. Is This the Album Britney Has Had the Most Control Over?
Britney has repeatedly said how "very, very proud" she is of Glory -- is that because it's her truest vision yet? We know that she worked closely with her right-hand A&R woman, Karen Kwak, who said, “Britney pursued the songs she wanted to do for herself. She came up with concepts and melodies." It shows.
Glory is like the immaculate child of Blackout and In The Zone, two records Britney had extensive input in, creatively-speaking. Listening to the tracks, it's clearly Britney's sonic sensibilities. It's cool and artsy fartsy ("Man on the Moon"), with some urban influences ("Liar").
4. Who Is Inspiring All This Seductiveness?
Glory is inevitably a sexy album. No doubt about it: Britney is in full seductress mode on this! But last we heard, pop's reigning princess hasn't been romantically linked to any eligible bachelor since last year. During the Late, Late Show segment "Carpool Karaoke," she said, of her personal life, "I might French kiss someone but I'm not going to marry anyone, no. I don't believe in marriage anymore."
Obviously you don't have to tie the knot to have, ahem, slumber parties, so this one mostly boils down to us being genuinely curious about Brit Brit's sex life. Sue us! She's singing about blindfolds and sheets all on the floor just like an ocean. We want the receipts! Give us the receipts!
5. What Is the First Word Britney Sings on "Make Me..."?
Britney is in fine vocal form on Glory, but we honestly have absolutely no idea what the very first lyric on "Make Me..." is. "??????? / I'm dreaming a mile a minute 'bout some-bo-day." It sounds like she is going to sing, "forever," and then changed her mind to "surrounded." For-oudned? And Genius has it listed as "Friday," which is somehow even more confusing than a word we literally just made up.
6. How Many F-bombs Does She Drop?
We love NSFW Britney! We did the math and she lets a total of seven F-bombs fly, thanks in large part to a well-placed "f**kin'" in the chorus of "Slumber Party." There is one more in the lyric, "I ain't f**king with your dirty, dirty, dirty laundry" on "Liar," for good measure. Sorry, "Work B*tch." Apparently the F-word is the new B-word.
7. Why Didn't Britney Reunite With Any Past Producers?
We love that she enlisted new -- from Cashmere Cat and Robopop ("Just Luv Me") to Mattman & Robin ("Do You Wanna Come Over?" and "Slumber Party"), YoungFyre ("Private Show" and "What You Need") to Bloodpop ("Better." Fun fact:  Bloodpop produced Justin Bieber's "Sorry," hence the similar ~vibes~), but couldn't we get at least one track from Danja?
We know this isn't technically Blackout 2.0, but it does have Blackout influences, so we would have loved to see what she would have concocted in the studio with Danja ("Gimme More," "Break the Ice") or Bloodshy & Avant ("Toxic" "Radar"). Or maybe William Orbit ("Alien") on something without so much will.i.am influence? Even Max Martin, for old times' sake!
8. Why Is G-Eazy the Only Feature?
To be fair, Britney albums are always light on features -- great! More Britney! Though the pop star has kind of explained how she and the "Make Me..." rapper linked up, we're still not clear how he secured the sole feature on Glory. Rumors of collabos included guest spots from Missy Elliott and Ty Dolla $ign, however, that's all they ever were. Rumors. But... But... But... could we please get a Britney-Missy song?
9. What Is the Next Single Going to Be?
"Private Show" and "Clumsy" were fun enough hype tracks, but neither should be an official single. Not when there are so many other cuts that have potential to be big-time radio hits. "Do You Wanna Come Over?" would be huge. "Just Luv Me" and "Hard to Forget Ya" could make a serious impact. And "If I'm Dancing" is too much fun to not get some spins in da club, the fact that it's a bonus track be damned.
10. Do You Wanna Come Over?
A question in its own right, but also our vote for single No. 2.
11. What Does "No Seas Cortes" Mean?
"Change Your Mind (No Seas Cortes)" is easily one of our favorite offerings -- even if we initially had no idea what we're singing along to. It seems there's an accent missing -- "Cortés" is proper -- and literally translates to "Don't Be Courteous."
Others suggest it translates more informally to "Don't Be Polite," which would make the spoken word passage -- "Yo sé que estás intentando ser educado / Yo sé que me quieres tratar bien / Pero no seas cortés" -- "I know you're trying to be polite / I know you want to treat me well / But don't be polite."
12. When Did Britney Learn to Speak French?
We're teased with Britney en Français with a countdown on "Man on the Moon," which is unexpected enough. Oh! But wait! Britney sings AN ENTIRE SONG in French -- "Coupure Électrique," the final track on the deluxe edition. (The title is also seemingly a reference to Blackout!) And she's credited as one of the track's co-writers, alongside three others. Um, is Britney a secret Francophile?! If so...since when?
13. But Seriously. Can "Slumber Party" Be a Single?
"Slumber Party" needs the single treatment -- after "Do You Wanna Come Over?" that is. She can easily censor those F-bombs and if she remixed it with a Drake verse, it would be fire on the radio. Instant No. 1.
Anyway, we'll be jamming to Glory until Britney's performance at the MTV Video Music Awards this weekend. It's her first time performing at the show in nearly a decade. Before she hits the stage, look back on all of her most iconic VMA performances in the video below.
It's not easy being the Sexiest Dad Alive.
While many celebrities experience their fair share of trolls on Twitter, the type of harassment Ryan Reynolds receives is somewhat different -- as is the way he handles the comments.
The 39-year-old actor has found himself on the receiving end of quite a few explicit tweets requesting various sexual acts, and while many stars would block inappropriate tweets or simply ignore them, flying under the radar just isn't Reynolds' style. The Deadpool star seems to have instead taken a note from his superhero alter ego in hilariously brushing off his followers' advances.
Sometimes Reynolds is just too busy taking care of family to fulfill some users' requests.
Other requests can be negotiated.
While some users are just going to have to get used to taking "no" for answer.
With a busy career and another baby on the way, Reynolds is unfortunately just too busy to cater to everyone.
But what does Blake Lively think of all her husband's sexually explicit Twitter requests? Well, according to the actor, she's probably behind most of them.
And we all know these two aren't shy when it comes to talking about their time in the bedroom -- see the video below!
Richard Branson has a new lease on life.
The 66-year-old billionaire and Virgin Group founder survived a terrible bike accident in the British Virgin Islands this week, and turned to social media and his company's website on Friday to share how he miraculously cheated death.
"I was heading down a hill towards Leverick Bay when it suddenly got really dark and I managed to hit a 'sleeping policeman' hump in the road head on," Branson explained on his Virgin.com blog. "The next thing I knew, I was being hurled over the handlebars and my life was literally flashing before my eyes. I really thought I was going to die. I went flying head-first towards the concrete road, but fortunately my shoulder and cheek took the brunt of the impact, and I was wearing a helmet that saved my life." 
Branson was cycling with friends and his two adult children, Holly and Sam, at the time of the accident. The group was training for the upcoming Virgin Strive Challenge, a month-long journey that will see participants hike, cycle, swim, mountain bike and complete a half-marathon run through Italy for charity.
"I really couldn't believe I was alive, let alone not paralyzed," he added. "I traveled to Miami for X-rays and scans, but have been extremely fortunate that apart from a cracked cheek and some torn ligaments, I hopefully will be able to complete the Virgin Strive Challenge next month."
"My attitude has always been, if you fall flat on your face, at least you’re moving forward," he concluded. "All you have to do is get back up and try again. At least I'm practicing what I preach – though a little too literally!"
Natalie Portman is loving her move back to the states!
The Black Swan star opened up on Thursday's Jimmy Kimmel Live! about her move to Los Angeles after living in Paris for two years with her French husband, Benjamin Millepied, and the couple's five-year-old son, Aleph.
"Everyone smiles a lot here," the 35-year-old director and actress observed. "It's so nice."
"They're very cool," she added of her former fellow Parisians, explaining, "There's a lot of rules of politeness, and codes of behavior that you have to follow."
"A friend of mine taught me when you go in some place, you have to say 'Bonjour' before you say anything else -- 'hello,'" Portman shared. "And then you have to wait two seconds before you say anything else ... or they'll think you're super rude, and they'll be rude to you."
"It's like talking to Siri in a way," Kimmel joked about the etiquette.
Now, Portman doesn't have anything against the Parisian way of life, but she admitted that the move back to America has been a nice change of pace.
"I didn't realize that I got used to it until I got [to L.A.]," she revealed. "I was so surprised, you get into an elevator and someone would start a conversation. Or like someone would smile at my child, I'm like, 'What a good person!'"
Watch the video below.
Meanwhile, Portman may be back in America, but that doesn't mean she's coming back to the Marvel universe.
Last week, the actress revealed that she has no plans to shoot another Thor, focusing instead on other projects, such as A Tale of Love and Darkness, Portman's directorial debut.
Watch the video below for more.
This may be Maddie Ziegler's fiercest performance yet!
The former Dance Moms star recently attended a master dance class led by Britney Spears' famed music video choreographer, Brian Friedman, at Los Angeles' Millennium Dance Complex, where she absolutely SHUT. IT. DOWN. on the dance floor.
Rocking a sleek ponytail, black-and-white Adidas crop top and matching black pants, the 13-year-old dancing diva worked it out to Ariana Grande's "Into You," pulling out all the sass, flawless technique and fierce facial expressions.
Needless to say, the temperature was definitely rising in that room!
Watch the full video below (Ziegler starts slaying at the 1:17 mark).
Ziegler, who is a judge on So You Think You Can Dance: Next Generation, is currently gearing up to perform with choreographer Travis Wall on an upcoming episode of the dance competition show.
The two both took to Instagram on Thursday to share a behind-the-scenes pic from rehearsal.
"YAY! so excited for this," Ziegler captioned the snap, which was reposted by the SYTYCD alum. "Catch us on @danceonfox on Monday to see us dance!!!"
Following SYTYCD, Ziegler's going to have her hands full next month as she hits the road for Sia's North American Nostalgic For the Present tour. But if Grande is in need of some additional dancers to join her onstage anytime soon (like Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards), we think Ziegler would fit right in -- the finger snaps, the ponytail, girl's got it all!
ET caught up with Ziegler earlier this month at the Industry Dance Awards, where she adorably gushed over Sia and what it was like when the "Chandelier" singer asked her to join her on tour.
"She's the best. I'm so honored to be dancing with her for six weeks," Ziegler said. "Sia's like my second mom. She's like a best friend to me."
Hear more in the video below.
Ariana Grande and Mac Miller have taken their relationship to the tattoo parlor.
While the rumored new couple didn't get inked with each other's names, they did get tatted together at Shamrock Social Club in Los Angeles on Thursday.
Grande was quick to boast about her new body art on Instagram.
"A couple new finger tats today," she wrote, alongside a pic of herself in the tattoo parlor. "So fine & perfectly petite, they won't even show up in this Polaroid. love & thanks. 💛 ♡ @_dr_woo_."
The 23-year-old singer also showed off her new tattoos -- the letter "A" on her thumb and the Venus symbol on another finger -- on Snapchat.
"I got two new tattoos today," she said in a short video. "I got this one for my friend, and for myself, because we have the same initial."
As for Miller? The 24-year-old rapper added to his extensive collection with a tattoo of the horizon on his hand.
"The god @_dr_woo_ blessed me," Miller wrote on Instagram, before unveiling his new ink in a couple more pics.
While Grande and Miller seem to be attached at the hip lately -- recently spotted on sushi dates and sharing smooches around Los Angeles -- the two actually met years ago, when they collaborated on 2013's "The Way."
But it’s another collaboration that Grande will be focused on this weekend, when she takes the stage at Sunday's MTV Video Music Awards to perform "Side by Side" with Nicki Minaj.
See more in the video below.
Dancing With the Stars' upcoming season is shaping up to be one of its most star-studded yet.
Brady Bunch actress Maureen McCormick, Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte, and singer-songwriter Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds will all be competing for the coveted mirror ball trophy next season, a source tells ET. 7th Heaven star Beverley Mitchell is reportedly still in talks to join the competition.
Derek and Julianne Hough will also be returning to DWTS next season, another source confirms to ET. Derek will be back as a pro, and Julianne will once again serve as a judge.
More DWTS season 23 contestants ET previously confirmed include Little Women star Terra Jole, model Amber Rose, Wizards of Waverly Place actor Jake T. Austin, and General Hospital actress Emma Samms. Popular pro Maksim Chmerkovskiy will also return next season after last appearing in 2014 -- when he won the season 18 trophy with his partner, Olympic ice dancer Meryl Davis.
As for McCormick, DWTS' Instagram account posted a hint on Thursday about who pro Artem Chigvintsev's partner is this season, and judging by the clues, all signs point to the 60-year-old actress.
"Hint: @theartemc's partner is a published author, released a country album, and started acting when she was 9! Who is she? #DWTS," the caption read, which appeared alongside a snap of 34-year-old Chigvintsev.
McCormick released her memoir, Here's the Story: Surviving Marcia Brady and Finding My True Voice, in 2009, and released  a country album in 1995 titled, "When You Get a Little Lonely." McCormick also made her acting debut in The Farmer's Daughter in 1965, when she was just 9 years old.
As for Mitchell, ET chatted with former DWTS contestant Jodie Sweetin at the premiere of Kubo and the Two Strings earlier this month, when she revealed that she's definitely talked to the 35-year-old former WB star -- as well as 37-year-old Step by Step actress Christine Lakin -- about appearing on the hit ABC show. Mitchell is filming Hollywood Darlings with Sweetin and Lakin -- an unscripted docu-comedy series on Pop -- debuting in 2017.
"We'll see. They might. You never know," Sweetin said.
ABC doesn't comment on casting speculation. The full cast will be revealed on Aug. 30, on Good Morning America. The new season of DWTS premieres Monday, Sept. 12, at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
One pro dancer that we'll definitely miss is Kym Johnson, who told ET exclusively on Monday that she's done with DWTS after marrying her season 20 partner, Shark Tank businessman Robert Herjavec, last month.
"I love the show and I'd love to still be part of it but, you know, I still want to hang up my dance shoes and what a way to end," Johnson said when we caught up with the newlyweds at the Television Academy's Performers Peer Group Celebration in Los Angeles.
Watch below:
Sisters gotta stick together.
On this week's Keeping Up With the Kardashians, Kim and Kourtney Kardashian arrange a pampering session for their sister, Khloe, complete with matching pajamas and brunch, to show her some love as she deals with all of the heartache after refiling for divorce from Lamar Odom.
"Kourtney and I wanna do something for Khloe, something super chill at the house," Kim explains in the preview clip. "Just like a little pampering Khloe moment, so that she feels loved."
"I just wanted you to feel adored, admired, loved and cared about," Kourtney tells Khloe. "You've been through a lot lately ... You just refiled for divorce."
"Even though you act strong and together, sometimes you need TLC," Kim adds.
EXCLUSIVE: Lamar Odom Opens Up About Khloe Kardashian Divorce -- 'We've Been Through a Lot'
The sweet moment hit home for Khloe, who acknowledges the issues in her personal life.
"This just shows that my sisters do love me, and are aware of everything I'm going through," she says. "I do not have a clue what I'd do without them."
MORE: Lamar Odom Is Ready to Get Back Into Basketball Training in New 'KUWTK' Promo
Watch the clip below.
Meanwhile, the Kardashian family knows the importance of a little R&R!
Last week, Kim rocked a super gorgeous sheer crop top while vacationing in Mexico.
Watch the video below for more.
Keeping Up With the Kardashians airs Sundays at 9 p.m. ET/PT on E!
From a 'Game of Thrones' director to one of the stars of 'UnREAL,' these nominees are up for their first Emmy award.
Kim Zolciak is one happy lady!
The former Real Housewives of Atlanta star took to Snapchat on Thursday to show off her new, 
11-carat diamond ring in celebration of her upcoming fifth wedding anniversary with NFL football player Kroy Biermann.
"Hubby got me a present! I'm so excited to open it," the 38-year-old reality star captioned a snap of a silver gift box with a big red bow. 
"This is my present from my hubby, you guys, is a Forevermark wedding band for our five-year wedding anniversary," she said with excitement. "I just got the band early because he loves me so much. Each one of the diamonds is a Forevermark which only one percent of the diamonds in the world are." 
A source tells ET, Biermann purchased the Forevermark Diamonds ring from Tara Fine Jewelry and selected precisely 11 carats in honor of their wedding anniversary on Nov. 11.
Biermann, 30, who signed with the Buffalo Bills earlier this year, has been training for the upcoming season in Rochester, New York, which has given Zolciak a bit of anxiety.
"My best friend, my everything left this morning to play for @buffalobills," Zolciak, who lives in Georgia, captioned a photo of her hubby last week. "Although Kroy is so excited as I am (my parents grew up there, half my family still lives there) never mind the fact the fans are AWESOME, the team is AWESOME and my hubby is ecstatic ... It was hard to say good bye!" 
The couple has been married since November 2011. Zolciak is the mother of six children, Brielle, 19 and Ariana, 14, from a previous marriage, and Kroy Jr., 5, Kash, 4, and 2-year-old twins Kaia and Kane.
Britney Spears is officially back and better than ever!
During an interview with KTU 103.5 FM's Cubby & Carolina Bermudez in New York City on Friday, the 34-year-old singer opened up about releasing new music, what's to come following her performance this Sunday at the MTV Video Music Awards, and what really happened behind the scenes while filming The Late Late Show's "Carpool Karaoke" segment with James Corden.
"[Carpool Karaoke] was really fun," she gushed. "The guy was just so incredibly sweet. I had no idea he has kids, he's a teddy bear. I was like, 'I just want to hug you right now.'"
"It was a little awkward, like, driving by grocery stores," she continued. "People walk by and there are like 18 cameras around us. This is just so awkward."
As far as what songs the two would sing, Spears said Corden "controlled the whole thing," but she did get on his case sometimes and say, "I don't want to hear that song again."
"They didn't show that part," she joked, telling the radio hosts that "…Baby One More Time" and "Oops!... I Did It Again" were two of the tracks she was sick of hearing on repeat. "Oh my God, and he kept playing them. He put a wig on for it. Yeah, I totally went along with it."
This is an exciting week for Spears, as her latest album, Glory, just dropped, a project she says was "two and a half years" in the making.
"When we first started the project, I wasn't really happy," the pop star admitted. "That took about six months. Then we found an amazing girl who found me the most fun people to write with. Things started rolling. We made a good body of work."
As for touring? Spears said it's not completely out of the question.
"You never know, honestly, my situation right now is very cool, I'm kind of spoiled," she dished. "But, you know, who knows what the future brings."
The blond beauty is currently gearing up for her highly anticipated MTV Video Music Awards comeback on Sunday, where she'll perform her lead single, "Make Me," off Glory.
"I still get very nervous," she confessed. "[There's] just something in the air at the VMAs, it's like electric. I can't really explain it. Every time I've performed there it's always been one of these nerve-racking experiences."
Spears also touched on rumors that she's in talks to perform the halftime show at Super Bowl LI. When asked if she would ever consider it, she simply replied, "maybe."
"[There would have to be] a lot of training and work before that happens," Spears -- who previously performed during the 2001 Super Bowl halftime show with Aerosmith, *NSYNC, Nelly and Mary J. Blige -- explained. "But I've never done that [solo] before, it would be intimidating. It would be fun though."
Fun indeed, especially if the New York Giants made it to the championship game. Spears admitted she has a crush on one of their players -- 23-year-old wide receiver, Odell Beckham Jr.!
"It's always been Brad Pitt," Spears replied when asked who her current celebrity crush is. "But no, no, it's not [Brad]. I really don't have a crush on anyone right now."
It wasn't long before she gave in, saying, "OK, I will say, I think Odell. "Hello. I mean… hello!"
The MTV Video Music Awards air Sunday at 9 p.m. ET on MTV.
As we patiently wait to see what Spears will pull off onstage this time, watch the video below to relive her most iconic VMAs moments.
Clea DuVall is right on time.
The actress is known for always being prompt, if not early. With lunch plans set for 1 o'clock, DuVall, dressed in a green army jacket and black sneakers, strolls through the front door of Little Dom's -- one of those hip, in-the-know eateries on L.A.'s East Side -- at exactly 1:00:00. Like clockwork.
Soon enough, between spoonfuls of Italian wedding soup, DuVall is getting philosophical about therapy and the emotional growth she experienced writing and directing her first feature film, The Intervention. It's the next step in her career, one she made flanked by two stellar actresses -- Melanie Lynskey and Natasha Lyonne, who also happen to be her best friends -- and the whole thing has been profoundly personal.
"It's like, we want to pretend that the versions of ourselves that we feel better about are who we are, and that person [before] wasn't us," she muses. "But it's all us. And we have to be that person to get to be this person that hopefully we're feeling good about today. I feel pretty good today. How do you feel today?"

DuVall was born in L.A. and born into Hollywood -- acting is something of a family business. (Her father, Steph DuVall, is also an actor. He played Shorty on Ray Donovan!) At the age of 19, she made her big-screen debut in Little Witches, before breaking out in 1998's The Faculty, playing the one-liner spewing goth Stokely and coining the phrase, "F**k you, gutter sl*t!"
The now 38-year-old actress has found consistent work in the two decades since, with a steady diet of TV roles -- including memorable turns on Carnivàle, Heroes, American Horror Story: Asylum and, most recently, as the first daughter's girlfriend on Veep -- and an impressively extensive filmography. (She has one of those IMDb pages you scroll down and go, "Oh, yeah! Girl, Interrupted!" "Oh, yeah! Identity!" "Oh, yeah! Argo!")
Somewhere in there, maybe 12 years ago, she guesses, she began writing -- "Taking scripts as far as they could go but ultimately nowhere, because I didn't know what I was doing." So often actresses say they turned to writing because it was the only way to get the roles they wanted. That wasn't the case for DuVall.
"As an actor you have a lot of free time and you have a lot of creative energy, and I wanted to have another outlet,” DuVall says. “It was more about just being creative than it was about making something or creating an opportunity for myself."
"Writing parts for myself is the least appealing thing of being a writer, because there are so many actors I respect and admire who I think are so much better than I am," she says. "Being able to create a role for them that is something a little bit different is really exciting to me."
The Intervention, a heartfelt, often hilarious dramedy that plays like a Big Chill for millennials, is an ensemble affair, centered on three couples who organize a weekend getaway as a guise to hold a marriage intervention for a fourth couple. "This movie, in particular, I wasn't satisfied focusing only on me anymore. As an actor, that's what you do. Your role fits into the whole, but the main thing you're thinking about is you and what you're doing. I wanted to focus on more pieces of the puzzle."
DuVall explains that the idea stemmed from admitting her own blind spots. "That came out of me really thinking that, at a time in my life, I knew what was best for everybody else." She pauses thoughtfully and leans back in her chair. "That was really just a way for me to not look at myself. [Writing the movie] sent me down a path of really dealing with things that I was avoiding and doing work on myself that I hadn't done before. It changed my life and got me to a place where I was able to have better relationships with other people and with myself."
Meanwhile, DuVall wrote the lead role -- Annie, a meddling know-it-all -- for her best friend, Lynskey. She wrote a supporting role for herself: Annie's best friend, Jessie, who is grappling with her own commitment issues with a long-term girlfriend. During a Writers Guild LGBT committee panel in June, DuVall called Jessie "a gay character that is gay in a way that is the gay that I feel like I am."
"I think it's not so much about the character but the role that they play," she says now. "So much of the time, it's about their struggles coming out or about the character being gay and it's a thing. I find it really refreshing when I see a movie or a TV show and being gay isn't a thing. They just are. It's a part of the world, almost as though it were a normal thing. "
It's normal?! (I’m gay, too, so I can make this joke.)
"No," she deadpans, and then lets out a laugh. "But in this script, if I'm writing a part where I'm basically playing myself, it felt dishonest to me to write myself as a straight character in a story that I am telling. I play straight characters all the time, and it's not a big deal. But if I have the opportunity to tell a story, I felt like it would be inauthentic of me to not take the opportunity to represent gay characters in that way, where they're just a part of the story. The movie is not about them being gay. They're fine with it. Everybody else is fine with it. They're way past all of those conversations, to the point where it's just a part of life. Because it is a part of life, whether certain people like it or not. Gay people exist."
So, this is a fantasy film...?
"Yeah, its a science fiction movie. It's kind of like The Matrix," she jokes, her voice lilting. "I've only seen one Matrix movie, but I kind of feel like this is Matrix 4. People are going to love it! I don't know why they didn't invite us to Comic-Con."
DuVall enlisted her other best friend, Lyonne, to play her onscreen girlfriend, effectively turning The Intervention into an unofficial But I'm a Cheerleader reunion, the 1999 film that achieved DuVall icon status -- at least in the LGBT community.
The satire starred Lyonne as a high school cheerleader outed as a lesbian and sent to a "sexual redirection" camp run by RuPaul Charles -- yes, that RuPaul! DuVall played the out and proud object of Lyonne’s affection, and Lynskey rounded out the cast as a nerdy fellow camper. But I'm a Cheerleader cemented DuVall's best friendships with Lyonne and Lynskey, even if, countless film sets and co-stars later, she is unable to put into words exactly why the relationships have lasted.
"Natasha and I are so different that -- I don't know..." DuVall says. "We just have a connection. We always have. She is my family and I really love her, unconditionally. Forever. Sometimes we can push each other's buttons. But it feels very familiar and very comfortable and loving. Melanie and I are a lot more similar, but just very -- I don't know! It's that same sort of just soul connection."
DuVall says asking Lyonne to play her other half onscreen in The Intervention was her shortcut to guaranteed chemistry -- and one less thing she'd have to worry about while directing.
"Sometimes when you're playing love interests opposite someone, it is uncomfortable and awkward. That all of a sudden you're just like, holding hands and hugging and kissing? It's bizarre," she admits. "I think you can sometimes see when people don't have chemistry or they don't have that connection. It's obvious. I knew that Natasha and I would effortlessly have that. In our friendship, we're affectionate with each other and we really love each other and really care about each other. We have such history, and I knew that would come through."

Admittedly, DuVall never intended to be behind the camera on The Intervention. "I wrote a part for myself, and I thought writing and acting and directing for my first thing would be too much." But after failing to find anyone else who was the right fit for the project, she had to accept the fact that it was because she was that person.
A perk of having worked almost nonstop over the past 20 years is that DuVall had also inadvertently gotten a crash course in directing from the pros and knew what to do on set -- and what not to do. She credits director Rodrigo García, who helmed a handful of episode of Carnivàle as well as the 2008 Anne Hathaway thriller, Passengers, for showing her the invaluable experience being on set provides in terms of understanding every job from grip to gaffer.
"Ben Affleck was another person who I really loved working with. I just love him so much as a man, but also as a director," she adds of her Argo director. "He's so smart and he really empowers his cast and his crew. That was something that I really tried to do, because I've worked with those first-time directors that try to micromanage you, and it's not fun. You can't do your best work when someone else is trying to do it for you."
With the rest of the cast assembled -- Lynskey's real-life boyfriend, Jason Ritter, landed the part of her fiancé, while Alia Shawkat, Ben Schwartz, Cobie Smulders and Vincent Piazza rounded out the other couples -- the ensemble headed to Savannah, Georgia, for an 18-day shoot, where DuVall stuck to the Affleck Method. "You are all better at your jobs than I am and that's why you are here," she says was essentially her philosophy on set.
"I wanted them to feel appreciated. I wanted them to feel invested. I wanted them to feel like they were getting an opportunity to be their best selves. Is that what happened? I don't know," DuVall says, before cracking a grin and backtracking: "Don't ask that! They loved it. They loved me!"
Directing your first feature is one thing. Directing your best friends in your first feature is another. Directing your best friends who are Emmy and Critics Choice award nominees and SAG Award winners in your first feature is, well -- it begs the question: Did casting Lyonne and Lynskey make the experience ultimately feel more comfortable or stressful? "Kind of both."
(Lynskey recently told The Los Angeles Times, that she had no option but to do the movie, since DuVall had written it for her. "I just talked to my therapist about how we could communicate without ending our friendship. I had three sessions about it.")
"They both were so respectful and loving and supportive and really wanted me to succeed and really wanted to help me. And I really got that. I really had that sense," DuVall makes clear, but admits that having the "two people who know me better than anyone" made it so that she couldn't lie about feeling stressed.
"There was only one moment, which was I think our second or third day of filming, where I woke up and I was like, 'I don't know if I can do this,'" DuVall says. "And I cried. It was the only time I cried! And then I just let myself feel scared for, like, five minutes, and then I went out and was like, 'All right, everybody, this is what were doing.' And then it was fine."
The Intervention premiered at Sundance Film Festival earlier this year, where it garnered a Special Jury Prize for Lynskey's performance and was quickly bought up by Paramount, to be released in theaters and on demand on Aug. 26.
DuVall has lined up a few acting gigs while she searches for the next project she wants to direct. She's certain she wants it to be something she isn't acting in. As for the specifics? "I kind of know it when I see it." Whatever it should be, with her first feature in the can, she shouldn't have any problems finding work on either side of the camera.
But, for DuVall, The Intervention will always be more than just her directorial debut.
"I watch it now and I'm so happy I'm in the movie! I'm so happy they were in it and we get to have this thing that we did together forever. It's incredible. We created something that will live on, like way beyond any of us. And that's so cool," she reflects on the experience.
"To be able to go to Sundance together, when we were there with But I'm a Cheerleader, and now we are all together in this thing that I wrote. I was in my apartment and had this idea sitting on my couch that I've sat on with both of them, and then we got to go and make the movie and then we're at Sundance and now it's coming out. And now anyone in the world can see it, if they want to. It feels very surreal," DuVall says sheepishly, before adding with a smile: "I'm not connecting with the reality of that."
Yeezy Yeezy Yeezy just jumped over the whole crowd!
Kanye West kicked off his "Saint Pablo" tour in Indianapolis, Indiana, on Thursday night in decidedly epic Kanye fashion via a floating platform that towered over the audience.
Scooter Braun, a friend and consultant to the 39-year-old rapper, raved about the set design from the audience on Instagram, writing, "The world has never seen anything like this!"
MORE: Kanye West Writes 'McDonald's' Poem for Frank Ocean's 'Boys Don't Cry' Magazine, Fast Food Chain Responds
"Tonight @kanyewest killed it. And @trvisxx ...he had fun. #saintpablotour #openingnight #indy #feltlikeakid #damnthatwasfun #yeezy," Braun captioned a video of the audience jumping up and down while basically being consumed by bass. (WARNING: Minor NSFW language).
The crowd was very taken with the elaborate stage, as seen in various fan videos and photos shared from the concert.
MORE: Kanye West Opens 21 'Life of Pablo' Pop-Up Shops Worldwide
And the "Famous" rapper tried to share the love back -- even though it proved difficult from his perch!
West has tour dates planned in North America through the end of October, and has made quite the effort to promote his new album on a grand scale.
Last weekend, the rapper rolled out 21 temporary Life of Pablo pop-up stores worldwide, selling album merchandise clothing that was unique to each of the cities it was sold in.
And one can only guess what we'll be seeing from West at this weekend's MTV Video Music Awards in NYC. He doesn't have a show planned that night (he'll be performing in the relatively close city of Toronto the following night), and if history is anything to go by, we may be looking forward to a very lively night from our favorite musician/designer/awards show speech maker!
MORE: The 17 Yeeziest Moments That Ever Happened!
Watch the video below for what to expect (and not expect) from this year's VMAs.
The drama between Kate and Jon Gosselin continues.
In more of Kate's recent tell-all interview, she claims her ex-husband transformed suddenly before their 2009 split, and says she's still shocked about their divorce.
Meanwhile, Jon exclusively told ET on Wednesday that he's "very upset" about Kate's recent comments about their eight children, including the revelation that 12-year-old Collin -- who Jon recently admitted to ET he hasn't seen in two years -- is enrolled in a program away from home to help him cope with "special needs."  "I love my children very much," Jon said. "I’ve always been there for them and I always will be. It’s shocking."
In Kate's latest comments, the 41-year-old reality star claims to People that prior to their breakup, Jon’s behavior suddenly changed. Kate claims he began buying pricey items like motorcycles and cars -- as well as staying out late at night -- despite having eight kids and a wife at home.
"I really would have thought he'd have been here for the long haul," Kate reflects. "The weirdest thing is that overnight he became a different person."
"People closest to me thought I was crazy and making it up," she adds. "When they saw it for themselves, they were like, 'Whoa.' They saw the proof -- and then I saw all the letters from women saying, 'I've been there, too.'"
However, in an interview with ET earlier this month, 39-year-old Jon addressed the confusion viewers may have had in thinking he had such a drastic lifestyle change so suddenly after their split, given the time delay between real life and when the show actually aired.
"It's after we got divorced that things got crazy because I was going out, but the show was still showing us married, so, the public didn't know," he explained. "But what was happening was I was going out trying to live my life doing appearances and stuff, and then the next episode was us married with the kids and all that stuff."
As for Jon's now strained relationship with his twin daughters, 15-year-old Mady and Cara, Kate tells the magazine she's proud that Mady spoke up against her father. "He doesn't even know us," Mady told People, denying that she and her sister have been kept from him. "He should maybe spend some time thinking about why we don't want to see him, and maybe realize that if he ever does want a relationship with us, talking about us on TV is not the way to make that happen."
Kate says Mady is actually taking the "high road" when it comes to her father.
"She doesn't want to join his game," Kate says about her outspoken daughter. "At that age, to be able to locate the high road and stay on it, that just blows me away."
"It's not going to be an easy road -- anyone who grows up with a parent who is often absent is going to have issues to deal with," she also acknowledges.
Earlier this month, Jon told ET that Mady and Cara suddenly stopped coming to his house when they were around 12-13 years old. "I didn't question it. I was just like, 'Hey, do what you want, be with your friends,' and then it just became they're not coming," he said.
He does, of course, want more of a relationship with his teenage girls.
"I mean, they're moving into womanhood," he said, pointing out that they're turning 16 in October. "I hope I can talk to them and develop a relationship in the future. But there's a lot of stuff that has to go on before that."
Watch our exclusive interview with Jon in the video below, in which he admits he hasn't seen all eight of his kids together in three years.
Jennifer Lopez is staying strong amid heartbreak.
Just two days after news broke that the "Ain't Your Mama" singer reportedly called it quits with her longtime boyfriend, Beau Casper Smart, the pop diva took to Instagram to share a telling message.
Wearing her Shades of Blue character's signature pantsuit and black heels, Lopez fiercely looks into the camera while standing next to artwork painted on a sidewalk in New York City. "Protect Yo Heart" the black-and-red graffiti reads.
"@egt239 I think this is what you meant to post… Ha," Lopez, who portrays detective Harlee Santos on the crime series, captioned the photo. "#protectyourheart."
The 47-year-old actress was jokingly calling out her producing partner, Elaine Goldsmith Thomas, who posted the same photo to her own account, but accidentally cropped part of Lopez's head and the word "protect."
"Queens Logic," Thomas captioned her snapshot. "#shadesofblue @jlo #protectyoheart."
Lopez and Smart first sparked romance rumors in late 2011. They called it quits in June 2014, but reunited again in January 2015.
The on-again, off-again couple recently hung out backstage at Lopez's All I Have show at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Las Vegas earlier this month. A week later, the 29-year-old choreographer announced via Instagram that he was going to be taking a break from social media. Meanwhile, Lopez headed to the Big Apple to return to the Shades of Blue set.
"New experiment," Smart wrote. "Gonna try to live old school for a little while. Going back to a time before social media. Gonna focus on personal connections over a type and text existence."
Hear more on what led to their breakup in the video below.
Mariah Carey has arrived to Fox's Empire.
In a new teaser released on Friday, fans get a sneak peek at the GRAMMY winner in her upcoming guest-starring role on the hit music drama. The highly anticipated episode will air on Oct. 5.
Carey plays a singer named Kitty, who joins Jamal (Jussie Smollett) in the recording studio to record a sultry duet. The clip also shows Kitty's first interaction with Cookie (Taraji P. Henson) and introduces the return of Shine (Xzibit) and Lucious' half-brother, Tariq (Morocco Omari). 
ET was with Carey recently, where she teased the tune she’s been working on for her Empire guest turn.
"I was in the studio last night and one of the things I had to do was get a song together," Carey said, adding that Kitty will be "pretty glamorous."
Smollett also revealed to ET that Carey vocally produced the recording.
"It was incredible!" Smollett said. "She landed at 1 a.m. She came into the studio. We were there until seven in the morning, and we just recorded the song, and it was incredible, and I love her. It's different getting to know someone that you love and respect and being able to work and do the work with that someone."
EXCLUSIVE: 'Empire' Star Jussie Smollett on Mariah Carey Collaboration 
In May, Carey -- who next appears on her E! docu-series, Mariah's World -- told Watch What Happens Live host Andy Cohen that she’d only appear on Empire if the part is "amazing."
"They had this one idea and I was like, 'Look, if I'm not going to have an amazing character arc, then why would we go on Empire to be basically a version of myself?'" she explained.
Empire returns for its third season on Sept. 21 at 9 p.m. on Fox.
There was a period of time during the aughts when seemingly every thriller, every found footage flick, every horror movie was "Based on a True Story." No matter whether there were ghosts or demons or killer clowns, there were also real events that inspired the story. You couldn't escape it.
For the most part, moviemakers have moved past slapping "Based on a True Story" on trailers -- unless the movie is about a white Southern family doing something nice for a black person. It was essentially a gimmick, anyway; the film should be all the scarier because it supposedly happened. Don't Breathe, the new home invasion picture from director Fede Alvarez (2013's Evil Dead remake), doesn't carry the label. But it could.
The movie follows a trio of teens who rob homes in Detroit -- a sort of Bling Ring of the Motor City -- to bankroll their dreams of a better life in California. There's Rocky (Jane Levy), whose mom dates a man with a literal swastika tattooed on his hand and abuses Rocky and Rocky's little sister. Meanwhile, Alex (Dylan Minnette) has...something going on with his dad. And Money (Daniel Zovatto) has a "$" sign tattooed on his neck, and that's about all we know about him.
The three orchestrate the heist of a blind man, who is only credited as "The Blind Man" (Stephen Lang). If there is any moral dilemma over their mark, Money demurs, "Just cause he's blind don't mean he's a f**king saint, bro." The stupid teenagers proceed to ignore every red flag and wind up trapped inside his home, unable to make a noise lest their sightless pursuer catch them. Literally every shot could be close-captioned "[screaming internally]".
The movie is scary. It starts off scary -- even Ghost House Pictures' title card is scary -- and only becomes more torturous from there. It's scary in how unsubtle it is, tracking through the house and zooming in on all of these things that will obviously be important later -- a bell! A mallet! A piece of glass! But knowing they will come back into play -- though, not when -- turns the movie into a nightmarish puzzle. It's scary in that stupid way, when you know what's coming, but still find yourself clutching the person next to you anyway. It's scary in original ways, too, completely built on the dramatic tension of who sees who -- and in one pseudo-night vision sequence, the audience is the only one who sees anything.
It's scariest because, while perhaps not directly inspired by true events, the premise reminds me of the Byron David Smith killings of 2012.
Those killings took place in Little Falls, Minnesota -- a Midwest city in vaguely the same sense as Detroit. Smith wasn't blind, but both he and The Blind Man had military backgrounds, the former flew Air Force during the Vietnam War before moving to the U.S. State Department, the latter is said to have fought in Iraq. Both were cased by teenagers looking to loot large amounts of cash. Both shot and killed the teens after they broke in.
In Don't Breathe, Money brings a gun into The Blind Man's house and, as Alex notes, that gives T.B.M. the legal right to shoot them. And he does -- he actually straight-up murders Money, in slow-motion. Smith's case revolved around the "Castle doctrine," which allows a homeowner to defend their home using lethal force -- under certain circumstances. Smith was ultimately found guilty on two counts of first-degree murder with premeditation and on two counts of second-degree murder, with one juror calling him a "deranged individual." He was sentenced to life in prison.
EXCLUSIVE: Jon Heder and David Krumholtz Join Forces in New Horror Comedy 'Ghost Team'
And that's where the truth ends for Don't Breathe...
(SPOILER WARNING: If you've gotten this far without seeing the movie, stop reading now. I'm about to discuss the ending, which is so bonkers insane that it needs to be seen to be believed.)
I almost wish the movie had stayed in that lane -- the cat-and-mouse elements proved the most terrifying, anyway -- but it takes a rapey twist in the third act, albeit one you kind of saw coming.
You learn early on in the film that T.B.M. is loaded because he won a settlement after his daughter was killed in a car wreck by another driver. The other driver was a "rich girl" who was found innocent and served no time. When Rocky and Alex descend into T.B.M.'s labyrinth of a basement, they discover their captor is also holding that girl captive. (Which is essentially the twist in that 2009 Julia Roberts movie, Secret in Their Eyes! But I digress!)
Here's where it gets really f**king loony: during an escape attempt, the "rich girl" is killed. Through a series of truly unfortunate events, T.B.M. captures Rocky and tells her that he thought it was only fair that since the "rich girl" took his child from him, she give him another. He says he is not a rapist -- they had a deal that once she gave birth, she would be set free. Which is still rape -- but tells Rocky he cannot wait any longer. He goes to a mini fridge and procures a jar of semen and a turkey baster and attempts to inseminate Rocky. Honestly, I'm experiencing PTSD just writing this, so, uhh...go watch it for yourself!
I will say this much: Don't Breathe has a lot more semen in it than you would probably expect.
Larry King and his wife, Shawn King, aren't letting recent reports about their marriage of 19 years affect them.
Larry, 82, was recently "blindsided" by Shawn having an alleged year-long affair with another man, according to Page Six, and is reportedly "heartbroken, embarrassed, and furious." But during an appearance on Hallmark Channel's Home & Family, airing Friday, Larry said he doesn't pay attention to rumors.
"I've been in the business next May for 60 years, and I've dealt with rumors for a long time," Larry says when asked by host Mark Steines about the latest scandalous reports. "I've dealt with people involved with rumors, and rumors are what they are -- they're rumors -- and to tell you the truth, I don't pay any attention to them."
PICS: Biggest Celebrity Cheating Scandals
Shawn adds that the two are banding together like always.
"This week I'm the latest pin-up girl," Shawn, 56, comments. "You have to just develop a shell around yourself, and not get hard on the inside, and stick together."
When co-host Debbie Matenopoulos notes that that's a "hard thing" to do in Hollywood, Shawn explains, "Yeah, but we've been at it for a while."
Larry and Shawn -- the TV and radio host's seventh wife -- married in 1997. The two both filed for divorce in April 2010, but never went through with it. They have two children together, 17-year-old Chance and 16-year-old Cannon.
This isn't the first time rumors have swirled surrounding alleged infidelity between the two. ET sat down with baseball coach Hector Penate in April 2010, who claimed to have had an affair with Shawn. Shawn has denied the affair.
"I've been in love very few times in my life, and she was one of them," Penate told ET. "She joked that we should go to Vegas and get married quickly, you know? We talked about kids, so, we talked about that all the time."
Candace Cameron Bure has no shame in adorably embarrassing her kids in public!
The Fuller House star took to Instagram on Thursday, sharing a video of her 14-year-old son, Maksim, trying to dodge one of her smooches in a restaurant.
In the cute clip, the mother of three gives her abashed teenager a kiss on the cheek, as his face turns bright red and he flashes a smile. When he doesn't give his mom much of a reaction, the 40-year-old actress playfully sticks out her tongue and proceeds to look at the dinner menu.
The camera then pans over to the other side of the table where her other children, 16-year-old Lev and 18-year-old Natasha, are seated, watching the funny mother-son moment go down.
"When your 14 year old doesn't want kisses from you anymore," Candace captioned the video.
Too cute!
Earlier this week, Natasha was the one stealing the spotlight on Instagram after she was caught red-handed wearing a striped bralette that actually belonged to her mother. It all went down when Natasha posted a selfie of herself rocking a USA sweatband and the barely visible top.
"Why are you wearing my bralette?!!!!" Candace wrote in the comments section. "Every time I leave town -- you take my stuff!!!!"
Hear more from their hilarious feud in the video below.
Rihanna is getting ready to slay.
The 28-year-old singer was snapped in New York City ahead of her big MTV Video Music Awards performance on Sunday where she'll be celebrating her Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award, stunning in her workout wear. Rihanna looked flawless going makeup-free and putting up her hair in a simple bun on Thursday, showing off her slim stomach in a black bra top and sweats.
... Looking good, RiRi!
PICS: Rihanna's Sexiest Shots
Multiple sources tell ET that Rihanna will perform a whopping four times during the VMAs, and that none other than Barbra Streisand and Frank Ocean will be presenting her with the award.
Clearly, the 2016 VMAs is shaping up to be an epic ladies night. Beyonce -- who has the most nominations out of any artist this year -- is rumored to be performing, as well as Britney Spears, and Ariana Grande with Nicki Minaj. The gold medal-winning "Final Five" U.S. women's gymnastics team  -- Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, Madison Kocian and Laurie Hernandez -- also told ET that they will be making an appearance.
Watch the video below to see eight 2016 VMA rumors we hope are true, including 23-year-old Grande performing as "we've never seen her."
Consider Sarah Hyland a fan of good old-fashioned dating.
"I think there's something special in forming a relationship with just talking," she told ET in a recent sit-down. "I think communication is really beautiful. It's the key to any relationship."
The 25-year-old actress is happily dating former Vampire Academy co-star Dominic Sherwood in real life, but her character in Netflix's newest film, XOXO, is another story.
"My character, Krystal, goes through a lot," Hyland said on Sunday, chatting about the film at The London Hotel in West Hollywood, California. "She's really naive and very young, and believes in true love. She's just looking for that thing that she's always wanted, so she meets a guy online and they have plans to meet up at this music festival, XOXO, and things don't go as planned for her."
Krystal's journey is one of several interconnected storylines in the ensemble film, streaming on Friday, Aug. 26 on Netflix. Graham Phillips, Ryan Hansen and Chris D'Elia are among Hyland's co-stars.
Hyland admitted that even if she were single, she would "never" consider dating on the Internet.
"Stranger Dangers are online!" she joked. "You just don't know. Catfish can happen anytime... It freaks me out. I just like talking one-on-one."
Hyland may consider her character naive, but Krystal also delivers one of the film's most memorable lines: "Part of growing up is accepting the fact that you're not going to get everyone's approval. It's a waste of your time to try."
Hyland said it's a mantra she also strives to live by in her own life.
"I have grown into myself as a woman," the Modern Family star explained. "The only person that you are really obligated to please is yourself. And if you don't love yourself, you can't love anyone else."
As for the online trolls that target Hyland and her famous gal pals, she really can't be bothered with a clap back.
"I wish it didn't exist. I wish it didn't happen to anybody, but you have to have thick skin," she said. "You have to believe in yourself and the people you surround yourself with. That's the most grounding of all. It doesn't matter what other people say, because as long as you love yourself, [who cares about] other people's opinions?"
Taylor Swift has started donating the $1 million she's pledged to give Louisiana, to help the state recover from a catastrophic flood that's killed at least 13 people and has affected thousands more.
The 26-year-old singer donated $50,000 to the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank on Thursday, and the nonprofit organization thanked her on Instagram.
"Today @taylorswift donated $50,000 to the Greater Baton Rouge Food Bank! The #laflood destroyed our warehouse but we are going to shake it off!" the caption read, alongside a picture of staff holding up a "Thanks Taylor!" sign.
Last week, Swift told ET in a statement that she's donating $1 million to Louisiana flood relief, recalling how welcoming her fans were when she visited the state during her 1989 World Tour last year.
"We began the 1989 World Tour in Louisiana, and the wonderful fans there made us feel completely at home," she said. "The fact that so many people in Louisiana have been forced out of their own homes this week is heartbreaking."
And she's not the only pop superstar giving back. Britney Spears -- who hails from Kentwood, Louisiana -- has teamed up with the American Red Cross and CrowdRise to raise money for the victims of the massive floods. Fans who donate at least $10 are eligible to either win two roundtrip tickets to New York City and two tickets to the MTV Video Music Awards this Sunday -- as well as the chance to meet Spears before the big show at Madison Square Garden -- and another winner will get to own the outfit the singer ends up wearing at the MTV Video Music Awards, along with an autographed album.
Swift has been enjoying some down time in NYC lately, hitting the gym and working on her fit physique. Wednesday was no different, when she was snapped entering the gym showing a bit of her belly button in a cropped maroon T-shirt, fierce black leggings and sneakers.
PICS: Celebs Give Back
Later that night, she went out to dinner with her good friend, YouTube star Todrick Hall. Watch the video below to check out the leggy look she sported for a fun night out.
Grab your sunnies and a bowl of popcorn, because the shadiest awards show on TV is back: the MTV Video Music Awards.
The VMAs air live from Brooklyn on Sunday and if history has taught us anything, it's that the celebrity claws come out around those Moonmen -- and we love it! We may not remember who stood at the podium to accept awards at the 1995 ceremony, but that look on Madonna's face when Courtney Love crashed her live interview that year is forever seared in our memory.
In celebration of our favorite history-making VMA moments, we're looking back at the 11 shadiest ceremonies of all time. Full disclosure: a few of these moments lack the subtlety of true, delicately-delivered shade -- crossing over into painfully obvious feud territory -- but you get the point. These celebrities had just about enough of each other, and they weren't afraid who knew it!
Case in point, our first example...
1993
RuPaul & Milton Berle
In one of the most uncomfortable VMA moments ever, RuPaul and Milton Berle went way off script, with RuPaul calling Milton a "queen" and quipping, "So you used to wear gowns, but now you’re wearing diapers." Uncle Miltie clapped back by grabbing his co-presenter's breasts and declaring, "Shut up! Let him, her read [the winner's name]. She-he. Go ahead." Major miscalculation on that one.
It appears as though any video evidence of the cringe-worthy moment has been scrubbed from YouTube, but RuPaul definitely had a lot to say about it backstage.
PICS: The Best and Worst Dressed at the 2015 VMAs 
1995
Madonna & Courtney Love
An instant classic! While chatting with Kurt Loder ahead of the 1995 VMAs, Madonna found herself on the receiving end of a flying compact from Courtney Love.
"Should we let her come up? No, don't. Please," Madge deadpanned. "Courtney Love is in dire need of attention right now."
1997
Fiona Apple & The VMAs
Fiona Apple took a bite out of the hand that was feeding her in the very best way during her 1997 Best New Artist acceptance speech, calling out to the viewers at home. "Everybody that's watching this world, this world is bulls**t," she said. "And you shouldn't model your life about what you think that we think is cool, and what we're wearing and what we're saying and everything. Go with yourself."
1998
Mariah Carey & Whitney Houston
Staged shade! This moment was quite obviously rehearsed, but nonetheless delightful. Mariah Carey and Whitney Houston faced off onstage for a classic "Who wore it best?" battle. Wearing the same chocolate-colored gown, the divas stared each other down before coming to an amicable agreement.
PICS: The Craziest VMA Looks Ever 
2002
Christina Aguilera & Eminem
Eminem & Moby
An Eminem two-fer!
Christina Aguilera showed us the true meaning of shaaaaade when she offered a polite chuckle and muttered "Interesting..." before presenting Eminem with his Moonman in 2002. Of course, this was just one tiny chapter of the pair's long-running, well documented feud, but according to MTV, Em and Xtina appeared to bury the hatchet backstage.
"Eminem was engaging in a spirited conversation with award presenter Christina Aguilera that at initial glance could have easily been construed as an argument," the report stated. "However, once the rapper said his peace and Christina voiced on her opinions, Em, who was nodding his head and looked to be agreeing with the singer, opened his arms just as she was about to walk away and the two actually briefly embraced." 
But back to the shade...
Em took Christina's dig in stride at the podium, politely thanking her, but things took a turn for the worse when he set his sights on Moby in the audience. 
"That little Moby girl threw me out of my zone for a minute," he told the crowd. "Keep booing, little girl! I will hit a man with glasses." Yikes!
2003
Madonna & Christina Aguilera
We're gonna go ahead and file this one under "unintentional shade." Madonna swapped some serious saliva with Britney Spears during a group performance on the 2003 show, only to turn around and offer a quick peck to Christina Aguilera. (Not to mention, half of Christina’s screen time was hijacked by an audience shot of Britney’s ex, Justin Timberlake.) Guess which pop princess walked away with the photo op?
2009
Kanye West & Taylor Swift
It’s the shade that keeps on giving!
Kanye West and Taylor Swift's complicated relationship began at the 2009 VMAs, when Yeezy infamously crashed the country darling's acceptance speech. Say it with us, now: "I'm really happy for you, Imma let you finish, but Beyonce had one of the best videos of all time!"
Years later -- in 2015, to be exact -- Kanye and Taylor appeared to put up a united front, with the "Shake It Off" singer presenting 'Ye with the VMAs' Video Vanguard Award and calling him her “friend.” But, alas, that peace was incredibly short-lived. 
2010
Taylor Swift & Kanye West
Before Taylor and Kanye's eventual reconciliation and estrangement (again), there was her 2010 VMAs comeback. Performing "Innocent" for the first time, Taylor delivered her own subtle revenge on the rapper. "32 and still growing up now," was among the song's memorable, targeted lyrics.
READ: VMAs Bad Blood! Why Do Stars Like Nicki Minaj and Adam Levine Love to Bash the Show? 
2013
Taylor Swift & Harry Styles
The Audience & Miley Cyrus
Taylor with even more VMAs shade! Yas, girl! But this time, it was from her seemingly safe seat in the crowd.
As ex-boyfriend Harry Styles took the stage with his band, One Direction, Tay Tay was caught by audience cameras, undeniably muttering: "Shut the f**k up" in his direction. Hey, at least pal Selena Gomez got a giggle out of it!
Meanwhile, not everyone was impressed with Miley Cyrus' twerk-a-thon at the 2013 VMAs. Rihanna was among the celebs that maintained hilariously stone-faced expressions while watching her performance, while the guys of One Direction appeared to just be confused all around.
2014
Katy Perry, Sam Smith & Everybody Else
All hail the King and Queen of VMAs shade! Sam Smith and Katy Perry were the epitome of IDGAF at the 2014 ceremony. They delivered flawlessly synchronized side-eye as Miley wept nearby...
Pretty much wanted nothing to do with Katy's date, Riff Raff...
Wondered who Fifth Harmony was...
And paid very little mind to what was happening onstage.
Long may they reign!
READ: 22 Questions We Have After Watching the 2015 VMAs 
2015
Nicki Minaj & Miley Cyrus
Miley returned to the VMAs in 2015 as the master of ceremonies, but nothing could have prepared her for the thundercloud of shade that was about to roll through, courtesy of Nicki Minaj. 
The rapper blasted Miley under no uncertain terms while accepting her award, calling her: "This b***h that had a lot to say about me the other day in the press. Miley, what's good?!" And with THAT. STARE. Nicki dropped the mic on the VMA shade game.
So, who is going to deliver this year's shadiest moments? Tune in to MTV on Sunday, Aug. 28 to find out!
The scariest horror film ever! Kerry Washington participated in a hilarious skit for Jimmy Kimmel Live on Thursday night.
The host introduced the clip, talking about Washington’s return to Scandal and her Emmy nomination for her role as Anita Hill in Confirmation.
“There’s buzz she might get nominated for an Oscar too for her role in a very scary movie that was inspired by real-life events,” Kimmel noted.
He then played the clip from the movie Group Text in which a very pregnant Washington, 39, who is expecting her second child with husband Nnamdi Asomugha, is seen sitting on her couch in her PJs watching a movie when her phone lights up and dings.
It’s a group message from her friends asking her to go out. But even when she says she can’t, they keep texting. So she turns her phone off, but that doesn’t work. Then she flushes it down the toilet, but it reappears. So she shoots it with a gun Olivia Pope style, but it magically reassembles itself in the form of the devil emoji.
Though she didn’t really star in the fake horror film with “Oscar buzz,” Washington certainly has been keeping busy.
News of her second pregnancy broke in May, but that hasn’t stopped the actress from getting back to work on the hit ABC drama, Scandal. But her co-star, Tony Goldwyn, has noticed a change in Washington since she’s become a mother.
"She’s thrown herself into motherhood with so much passion and enthusiasm and joy. And it's just a great thing to see,” Goldwyn told ET in July. "I saw her yesterday with her little bump and she's beautiful and very excited. Every day I walk in and she goes 'come here, come here, come here.' And she shows me a new picture of her daughter and a new video and it's great."
Kate Middleton and Prince William are dedicating themselves to a cause very close to their hearts. As the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge continue to promote children’s mental health, the couple visited with representatives from YoungMinds in London on Thursday.
In a sweet video message posted by Kensington Palace, the Royals and several members of the organization opened up about the importance of parents seeking help when dealing with mental health issues in their children.
MORE: Kate Middleton Stuns in Red After Meeting James Corden’s Sister at Charity Event With Prince William
“We’re parents ourselves. I’m sure we’ll face worries. We do face worries because we’ve got small, young children,” the mother of Prince George and Princess Charlotte said. “But if those worries escalate, having that feeling that there’s somebody there that’s non-judgmental that can provide the professional support and that can really provide a helping hand at a difficult time, I think, is really impressive.”
Her husband mirrored the sentiment, praising the work of the employees at the hotline call center.
“You’ve got these caring, lovely people on the phone, who listen for as long as they need to build the picture of what’s going on and provide extremely good advice,” he said.
Both parents want to emphasize that there’s no shame in seeking help. And they want to encourage fellow parents and young people to seek assistance whenever they need it.
“What we’ve taken away, I suppose, is just how normal it is,” Kate said.
“It’s totally fine to talk about it, to seek help, and speak out,” William added. “Because we’re not all superheroes and there’s a lot of pressure on parents. Most of it is self-made, from parents themselves, where you feel you have to handle everything. You have to show strength and resilience to everything. But there are sometimes when it all gets to be too much and you need to reach out and that’s totally fine.”
Zac Efron is mourning the loss of his beloved dog. On Thursday, the Neighbors 2 star took to Twitter to honor his fallen pet.
“Through thick and thin you’ve always been my best friend. Until we meet again, RIP Puppy Efron,” the actor captioned a sweet photo of his dog licking his face.
Efron, 28, has been a long-time animal lover. Back in November 2014, he adopted a tiny black puppy with his now ex-girlfriend, Sami Miro.
He later tweeted a sweet photo of himself with the little guy in May 2015, writing, “The morning after we rescued him #ChappelleShow.”
There have been several sad celebs who have lost pets recently. Just last week, John Stamos revealed that his dog, Linka, had died.
"She was always by my side, especially in the dark times," Stamos captioned the photo, showing Linka watching over him from outside a pool. "Never judging. By my side. Only loyal."
Demi’s down time! As she tours the globe for her Future Now Tour with pal Nick Jonas, Demi Lovato is taking full advantage of any free time she gets. On Thursday, the “Stone Cold” singer took to Snapchat to share some sunny pics with her fans from Canada.
“Making new memories in Vancouver,” she captioned one photo on a boat with a Canadian flag waving.
MORE: Demi Lovato Turns 24, Receives Birthday Wishes from Cast of 'The Walking Dead'
She also shared a belfie with two of her pals, writing, “Lauren Kelsey and my a**.”
Lovato, 24, also gave her best Kardashian impression, posing at the front of the boat in a sexy neon bikini with string cutouts and a bold pattern.
Lately, the singer has been touring non-stop. She has several more dates in Canada before returning to the States on the last day of August.
Lovato recently sat down with her tourmate, Jonas, for an interview with The Calgary Herald when the topic of shedding their Disney star images came up. Lovato said she had an easier time than Jonas moving past her child actor past thanks to her 2011 stint in rehab.
MORE: Demi Lovato Sued by Sleigh Bells For Alleged Copyright Infringement
“For me, the transition was a little bit easier because I didn’t have to do anything to break out of the Disney mould. It’s a lot easier when you just go to rehab,” said the mental health advocate. “So, I kind of grew up really fast in the public eye in that way and so when it was time to release my music, I think people looked at me differently. I wanted to prove to people that I wasn’t just a stereotypical Hollywood starlet that goes to rehab and falls back into the trap of the things that got her there. I wanted to make sure that the music that I made was great and that I was passionate about the music that I put out and I sang my heart out.”
Lovato has remained clean and sober since and now works hard to be an advocate for mental health.
Damn, girl! Kylie Jenner was showing off a more voluptuous figure on Snapchat and Instagram on Thursday and her fans definitely took notice.
First, she posed in a daring grey top with a plunging neckline before switching into an off-the-shoulder white crop top that boasted plenty of cleavage. The cosmetics queen quickly took to Twitter to answer her fans’ questions and speculation about her curvier look.
When one follower asked if she’d gotten her breasts done, the 19-year-old replied, “Um never.”
Many speculated that Kylie had gotten a boob job during her recent Snapchat lull when she told fans she’d been suffering from severe food poisoning. After hearing those claims, she replied, “Do u want to feel them to validate?”
Another asked Kylie for her tips, saying her “boobs looked so good.” The reality star revealed, “TMI but it’s that time of the month lol,” adding, “They will deflate soon. And it will be a sad sad day.”
She also dished that she wasn’t wearing a bra in the photo, but when she does wear one, Kylie shared the kinds she likes to rock.
MORE: Kylie Jenner Poses for Sister Kendall's 'Vogue' Issue -- See Her Most High-Fashion Photo Shoot Yet
“Bomb shell or this one BOMB bra from Victoria secret that I’ve had for 4/5 years that they don’t make anymore,” she revealed.
It was a busy day for the youngest member in the Kardashian-Jenner clan. She posted Snapchats while out with her boyfriend, Tyga, and then she filmed a clip for her app with pals.
They’re making duets great again! On Thursday night, Barbra Streisand visited The Tonight Show to perform a historic duet with GOP candidate Donald Trump. Well, technically it was host Jimmy Fallon doing his best Trump impression.
“Thank you, it’s great to see me!” Fallon declared as he took the stage with a bright orange wig and lots of face makeup. “When you see me sing, you’re going to be blown away.”
“Oh, like your hair in a wind storm?” Streisand quipped.
“Toupee, I mean, touche,” Fallon joked.
The pair then sang the famous duet “Anything You Can Do,” changing up the lyrics a bit to match some of Trump’s most famous campaign moments.
“Any wall you can build, I can build taller. I can build any wall taller than you!” Fallon declared, referencing Trump’s declaration that he wants to build a wall to keep out illegal immigrants.
Once the song was over, Fallon told Streisand, “You really are a prima donna,” to which she replied, “You’re a prima Donald.”
“The Donald” also asked if Streisand wanted to be his new campaign manager.
“No way, Jose!” she replied.
“Jose? Where is he? Get him out of here!” Fallon joked.
Later in the evening, the famed singer also performed with fellow guest Alec Baldwin, singing, “The Best Thing That Has Ever Happened.”
Britney Spears hopped in the passenger seat with James Corden for an all new installment of "Carpool Karaoke" on Thursday, and the pop superstar recreated some of her most iconic music video moments while opening up about expanding her family in the future.
The "Piece of Me" singer, who was decked out in all-black and rocked dark shades for the sunny car ride through the streets of West Hollywood, kicked things off by singing along to "Oops!... I Did It Again."
After slowly easing into the karaoke part of "Carpool Karaoke," Corden and Spears really started to get into the iconic track, even lip-syncing the iconic, Titanic-inspired spoken-word bridge. After all these years, Britney hasn't forgotten any of those references.
After their faux-emotional duet, Corden and Spears broached the subject of children. Corden gushed about his 5-year-old son, Max and his 1-year-old daughter, Carey, while Spears couldn't help but beam while talking about her sons -- 10-year-old Sean and 9-year-old Jayden -- whom she shares with ex-husband Kevin Federline.
"They're not babies anymore," the 34-year-old diva lamented, before admitting that she'd like to have more kids in the future.
"I would like to have like, three more," Spears shared. "I have to find the right guy first."
PHOTOS: Britney Spears Through the Years
As they drove, Corden asked Spears to describe the ideal guy she's looking to marry, but she made it abundantly clear that tying the knot isn't something she sees happening 
ever again.
"I think I might not ever go to men again," Spears said. "I'm just done with men."
"You're saying you don't want to be with anyone, ever, for the rest of your life?" Corden asked.
"I mean, I might French kiss someone, but I'm not going to marry anyone," she replied. "I don't believe in marriage anymore."
Spears' previous marriage to Federline ended in divorce in 2007 after three years. She also famous wed her childhood friend, Jason Alexander, in 2004, at a chapel in Las Vegas, but that union was annulled less than three days later.
After the heavier love life talk came to an end, the two got back to the business of recreating more of Brit’s famous music video moments -- and for "…Baby One More Time," Corden brought out some costumes.
Both the singer and the host rocked her iconic grey cardigan over a white button-down shirt. However, Corden's outfit was surprisingly more revealing and he was the only one of the two who went all the way with the signature pigtails.
After Corden slayed her breakout single, the singer was left nearly speechless, simply shaking her head in awe and marveling, "Amazing."
Corden has proven time and again that he can hold his own against some of music's most venerable stars. Check out the video below for a look at one of the Late Late Show host's most epic installments of "Carpool Karaoke."
The NFL regular season is almost here, and with it comes an old favorite, the Sunday Night Football theme song!
Carrie Underwood has been NBC’s diva of choice since 2013, but until this season, she was performing a reworked version of Faith Hill's "Waiting All Day for Sunday Night," which was set to Joan Jett's "I Hate Myself for Loving You."
Now, the country star gets to put her own spin on things, recording a brand new version of her Miranda Lambert duet “Somethin’ Bad.” Underwood teased the 2016 theme during some super-short Olympic promos, but now, the @NFLonNBC Twitter account has given fans a behind-the-scenes look at the new tune!
“Stand up and cheer, stomp your feet, start clappin’,” the country crooner sings in the clip. “NBC Sunday Night about to happen.”
We can’t wait!
The NFL season opener between last season's Super Bowl teams, the Carolina Panthers and the Denver Broncos, airs Thursday, Sep. 8 at 8:30 p.m. ET/ 5:30 p.m. PT on NBC.
More like That 70's Whoa! Mila Kunis continued to show off her chic pregnancy style in this colorful, psychedelic Tolani dress on Wednesday.
Kunis was spotted out in Beverly Hills, California, and the expectant mom looked wonderfully retro in the long-sleeved, short-hemmed, button-down number.
The bright, busy outfit looked just like something her That 70's Show character, Jackie Burkhart, might have rocked, and Kunis couldn't have looked cooler, pairing the patterned top with simple, white sneakers.
Kunis and her husband, Ashton Kutcher, first met while co-starring on the Fox sitcom over a decade ago. The pair struck up a romance in 2012, six years after the show went off the air, and got engaged in February 2014.
Kunis and Kutcher welcomed their first child, daughter Wyatt Isabelle, in October 2014, and later tied the knot in a private ceremony in Oak Glen, California in July 2015.
The cute couple announced that they were expecting their second child in June.
Last month, the Bad Moms star spoke with ET about her upcoming bundle of joy, and how the second pregnancy is wildly different than the first.
"I think with the first one, you're so enamored with the initial experience that I was constantly checking the app, 'What fruit size is the baby? Is it the size of a grape or an avocado?'" Kunis shared. "Now I'm like, 'Wait, how far along am I?' You're busy running after the other one and working full time." Check out the video below to hear more.
Blac Chyna is looking more like a Kardashian every day.
The 29-year-old model Instagrammed a couple of new photos on Thursday which appear to be shots from her upcoming reality show, but it’s her hair that’ll make you do a double take.
In the pics, Chyna’s loosely curled raven locks are reminiscent of Kim's signature hairdo.
MORE: Rob Kardashian's New Neck Tattoo Might Be of Blac Chyna's Name
To be fair, Kim didn’t invent the hairstyle, even if it definitely feels like Chyna took a page out of her style book.
That said, if imitation is the sincerest form of flattery, then Kim should be delighted by her future-sister-in-law’s hair choice. Plus, Chyna and Kim K. were friends long before she got engaged to Kim’s brother, Rob Kardashian. Maybe she looks up to the 35-year-old reality star?
Meanwhile, Chyna and Rob are expecting a child later this year, and recently opened up about their personal lives in a Facebook Live chat. Watch the happy couple talk marriage, pregnancy and more in the video below.
Many of the victims of the Pulse nightclub shooting in Orlando, Florida won't be faced with having to pay medical bills for their treatment.
Orlando Regional Medical Center, where a majority of victims injured in the June rampage were taken for emergency care, won't be sending those patients bills for their treatment, which could come out to more than $5 million in total for the hospital.
"Orlando Health has not sent any hospital or medical bills directly to Pulse patients and we don’t intend to pursue reimbursement of medical costs from them," said Orlando Regional's parent network in a statement to ET.
Furthermore, Orlando Health has pledged to help the victims with their future medical needs to the best of their ability.
'We can’t predict the future needs of these patients, their financial situations, or what the state or federal governments may require us to do for charity policies," their statement continued.
"So, while we can’t assume the answer is free care forever, we will use our very generous charity and financial assistance policies to assess the best way to ensure our patients get quality care here at Orlando Health in the most fiscally responsible manner."
49 people were killed and 53 others were injured during the mass shooting terror attack inside Pulse, a gay nightclub in Orlando, on June 12. The shooter, Omar Mateen, was killed by police after a three-hour standoff.
Orlando Health President and CEO David Strong said in a statement to ET, "The Pulse shooting was a horrendous tragedy for the victims, their families, and our entire community."
"During this very trying time, many organizations, individuals, and charities have reached out to Orlando Health to show their support," Strong added. "This is simply our way of paying that kindness forward."
After the shooting, some of the biggest stars in entertainment lent their time and talents to a variety of charities aimed at helping the victims of the tragedy. Check out the video below for a look at what some celebs are doing to help.
Vanessa Hudgens is no stranger to carefree, Coachella-inspired styles, and this time, her hair is no exception.
The Powerless actress replaced her brunette lob with a fiery new ’do, and fans captured every glorious inch of V’s bright red ombré style last night, as she debuted it on Snapchat.
A sassy expression coupled with the 27-year-old’s new mermaid-like hair extensions make her trademark brunette tendrils a distant memory. Not to mention they give her a much more distinct look from her little sister, Stella.
Though let’s be real -- Vanessa switching up her hair length is nothing new, as the Grease Live! star was seen vacationing in Italy earlier this summer with an equally lengthy, albeit less vibrant, hairstyle.
What’s next for Vanessa’s hair? Time will tell, but until then, we’ll allow her to continue to surprise us -- like with her answer on whether or not she’s down to do another musical in the exclusive clip below.
Reese Witherspoon is ready to head back to Alabama!
The 40-year-old actress sat down for a Facebook Live to chat with her fans on Thursday, and revealed she's definitely up for making a sequel to Sweet Home Alabama!
"I love Sweet Home Alabama!" Witherspoon raved in response to a fan's comment on the 2002 film.
"We are not making a sequel that I know of, but if Disney wants to call me, I would happily make a Sweet Home Alabama 2!" she said.
Throughout her 20 minute chat, Witherspoon also dished on a couple other fan favorites, teasing that she's thinking about making another Legally Blonde.
"I really loved making Wild, a movie I made a couple years ago," she said of her favorite movies to make. "I also loved making Legally Blonde, because I love pink! It was really fun!"
"I got to wear all the amazing costumes, and I got to work with a dog every day. I love dogs!" she added.
See more from Witherspoon's Facebook Live in the video below.
It may have been 15 years since Legally Blonde came out, but Witherspoon has no trouble fitting into her old Elle Woods costumes.
Just last month, the actress slipped back into the film's iconic teeny pink bikini for an epic throwback shot.
"I'm able to recall hundreds of important details at the drop of a hat," she posted to Instagram, along with the hashtag "#LegallyBlonde15."
See more in the video below.
Almost two decades after Princess Diana's death, there still isn’t a day that goes by that her eldest son, Prince William, doesn't miss her.
The 34-year-old Duke of Cambridge paid a visit to Keech Hospice Care in Luton, England on Aug. 25, where he got emotional while speaking with 14-year-old Ben Hines, who lost his own mom to cancer a year ago.
"Time makes it easier," William said, comforting Hines. "I know how you feel, I still miss my mother every day and it's 20 years after she died."
"The important thing is to talk about it as a family," William added. "It's OK to feel sad. It's OK for you to miss her."
Princess Diana was killed in an auto accident in Paris nearly 19 years ago, on Aug. 31, 1997. William was 15 at the time, while his younger brother, Prince Harry, was 12.
Last month, Harry also opened up about his mother's death,  and admitted that one of his biggest regrets was not being open about his loss and how he was coping with it.
"I really regret not ever talking about it,” Harry said during a benefit event for his mental health charity, Heads Together. "For the first 28 years of my life, I never talked about it." Check out the video below to hear more from the royal about dealing with trauma and tragedy.
Frances Bean Cobain's soon-to-be ex-husband isn't going down without a fight.
Isaiah Silva, whom Cobain married in 2014, has requested spousal support from the 24-year-old daughter of Kurt Cobain and Courtney Love.
According to documents obtained by ET, Silva, 31, is requesting $25,000 a month -- a total of $300,000 a year -- in alimony. Silva, formerly of the band The Eeries, claims that he put his career on hold after marrying Cobain.
The documents go on to state that Silva has gone into debt after Cobain reneged on her promise to pay for private school and housing bills for his 7-year-old daughter from a previous relationship. Silva states that in addition to losing financial stability, his daughter has traumatically lost a step-mother, and therefore also requests funds for his daughter's visits to therapy.
Silva's request also mentions Cobain's lavish lifestyle as well as the estate of Cobain's late father, Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain, reportedly valued at $450 million, as proof of her wealth and ability to provide alimony payments. A hearing has been set for Sept. 7.
Divorce documents obtained by ET in March state that Cobain was open to paying spousal support, but was adamant about protecting her father's estate. So far no prenuptial agreement has surfaced.
Cobain has been focusing on herself since filing for divorce, which has brought her closer to her mother.
Love couldn't help but gush about her daughter earlier this month, when Cobain posted a short video of herself covering Jimmy Eat World's "The Middle" to Instagram.
"Your father is very proud of this as am I baby," the former Hole singer wrote.  "I love you to the moon and back ❤❤ #proudmommy."
See more in the video below.
It's been 15 years since Aaliyah's death, but the singer still has a special place in Beyoncé's heart.
The "Formation" singer took to Instagram on Thursday to share a throwback video of herself and the fallen star from the 2000 VMAs, when both were just starting their careers.
21-year-old Aaliyah had already released a hit sophomore album, One in a Million, by 2000, and was just on the verge of releasing her third and final album, Aaliyah, the following year. Beyoncé, still a member of Destiny's Child, co-hosted the VMAs red carpet pre-show for MTV.
"Miss Aaliyah, how you doing, girl?" Beyonce asked the "One in a Million" singer in the throwback video.
"It's so good to see you again," Aaliyah replied.
"You too! What are you looking forward to seeing?" Bey said, before the two gushed about D'Angelo.
"He's fine. He's hot!" Aaliyah raved to Beyonce's giggles.
Beyonce has long moved on from co-hosting on the red carpet, instead slaying it on the stage.
In fact, multiple sources tell ET that Beyoncé, up for a record 11 awards at this year's VMAs, will also be performing this Sunday.
The singer last performed at the VMAs in 2014, but it's her show stopping 2003 performance that MTV has been teasing.
Whether Blue Ivy -- who watched her mom's 2014 performance from the arms of Jay Z -- will be accompanying Beyonce to the show is still up in the air, but we can only imagine the kind of fashion they'll bring to the red carpet.
See some of their latest mother-daughter looks in the video below.
Jenna Dewan-Tatum can't stop gushing over her little family!
In a behind-the-scenes interview clip obtained by ET from her latest photo shoot with Danskin, the dancer and actress explains what life is like at home with her husband, Channing Tatum, and their 3-year-old daughter, Everly.
"A normal day for me is, I get up with my daughter, [and] we generally watch Sesame Street," Jenna, 35, adorably reveals. "We do some breakfast, we change. It takes a while to put clothes on my daughter, so you gotta, like, plan that out."
"Then, if I'm with her, we normally go to the park or do something fun," she adds. "And then generally when she naps, is when I go do things. I'll either go work out or go do my meetings, or go and do whatever I need to do for my work, and then I'm home by dinner."
"We do dinner, we do bedtime -- 20 million books, 20 million songs," she continues, laughing. "And then I'm lucky if I got her down on time and then I'm like, 'Ahhhh, 200 e-mails to return.' That's my normal life!"
Jenna says that balancing her busy life is a struggle, but she couldn't be happier to be doing what she loves with the two people she loves most.
"Definitely there are lots of days that l am really tired, especially after becoming a new mom," she confesses. "There's nothing more exhausting because physically, mentally, emotionally it requires you to be on all the time."
"And having a job and being married and having a crazy busy life, I try and balance as much as I can," she continues. "I do the best I can. Some days I'm not that great at it, some days I'm better, but I have found -- and it's so true, a lot of people will say that -- that over time, you really have to take time for yourself, and it’s the hardest thing for me to do because I [think], 'There's so many other things I should be doing, there's other people to be taking care of.'"
Busy, indeed!
Jenna is the new brand ambassador for Danksin, a women's dance and activewear line, and she will be the face (and body!) of their fall 2016 ad campaign. The images will launch in the October issues of magazines like Teen Vogue, Glamour, InStyle, Harper's Bazaar and Self.
"I'm hoping I can steal pieces from today's shoot because I don't think anyone's going to want to wear them after I've been sweating in them all day long," she joked following the photo shoot, which had her jumping on a trampoline and leaping on a rooftop. "I found out recently my very first leotard was Danskin when I was [in] my very first dance class when I was four years old."
And she's been rocking them ever since! Jenna admits it's been awhile since she hit the dance floor, but performing in front of the camera again is "like riding a bicycle."
"I like to say, 'Once a dancer, always a dancer,'" she dishes. "In everything -- the way you walk, the way you move, the way you talk, the way you sit -- everything is just, you've been trained a certain way your whole life, so it's a bit muscle memory. It's maybe not quite what it was when you were doing it every day, but it does come back."
The brunette beauty may be ultra-busy, but she always finds time to get up and be active -- something she's been doing since she was Everly's age.
"I like to be physical, and workout and dance, because it makes me feel good," she explains. "It really does. I grew up doing it -- it is obviously something that is so natural for me that when I'm not doing that, I actually feel kind of off and weird."
"My mom would always joke that I would just dance around the house [when I was younger,]" she adds. "[My parents] wouldn't even be able to have a conversation. They'd be like, 'Jenna, where are you?' And I'd be practicing my tap and be like, 'yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm doing my routine.' I just went through life dancing."
American swimmer Ryan Lochte isn’t out of the woods just yet. Brazilian police charged the Olympic gold medalist on Thursday for filing a false robbery report involving an incident that took place at a gas station in Rio de Janeiro during the Olympic Games.
Authorities released a statement to The AP explaining that the 32-year-old swimming star, who returned to the United States before police initiated their investigation, would be informed of the charges facing him in Brazil. Additionally, the indictment will be sent to the International Olympic Committee's ethics commission.
Lochte originally claimed that he and three teammates -- Gunnar Bentz, James Feigen and Jack Conger -- were coming home after a night of partying when their taxi was pulled over by men pretending to be Rio police. He said that one of the robbers pointed a gun at his forehead and stole their money.
Later, Lochte altered his story, saying that the group wasn't pulled over but instead, they were robbed at a gas station after having the taxi pull over so they could use the restroom.
Rio police officials claim that the swimmers vandalized the bathroom at the gas station and urinated on the building. According to their report, two gas station security guards were the ones who pointed their gun at the swimmers, demanding monetary payment for the damages.
MORE: 2016 Rio Olympics: The 9 Biggest and Most Scandalous Moments
Bentz, Feigen and Conger were detained by Rio police before heading back to the U.S., and in follow-up statements revealed that they had indeed urinated behind the gas station and that Lochte tore a poster out of a metal frame on a wall before armed security demanded money from them.
All four swimmers have released public statements apologizing for their behavior and for altering or omitting the facts of the incident in earlier statements. Feigen, who was the last to return home and address the incident, said he was ordered to pay a fine of nearly $11,000 to get his passport back so he could return home.
Lochte, who was the first of the swimmers to go public with the story of being robbed at gunpoint, took to Instagram on Friday morning to issue an apology.
"I want to apologize for my behavior last weekend," Lochte wrote. "For not being more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning and for my role in taking away from the many athletes fulfilling their dreams of participating in the Olympics."
Lochte also admitted, "I should have been much more responsible in how I handled myself, and for that I am sorry."
In Brazil, the maximum penalty for falsely reporting a crime is 18 months in prison, according to the AP. If Lochte doesn't return to face the charge, he could be tried in absentia.
Check out the video below to hear more about the embattled Olympian's mea culpa.
Kaley Cuoco, Martin Spanjers and Katey Sagal got together with Amy Davidson and her baby boy, Lennox, for a sweet 8 Simple Rules reunion on Thursday.
"A little #8simplerules reunion party today with a tiny addition @kateylous @martinspanjers @amy_davidson#lennoxsawyerlockwood (someone is smiling down on us)," Cuoco captioned the black and white photo, referencing the late John Ritter. The show came to an end in 2005 after three successful seasons.
Last month, it was revealed that Sagal will be joining the cast of Big Bang Theory, where she'll once again be playing Cuoco's TV mom.
"Yes yes yes yes !!!" Cuoco posted to Instagram when  the news was first announced, along with a throwback pic of herself and Sagal. "Once my tv mom, always my tv mom, love you@kateylous !!!!! #fullcircle." 
"There will be a little reunion there, which we're excited about," Executive Producer Steve Molaro told ET's Kevin Frazier about the casting news. "She's going to be a little bit of a neurotic character because she's spent her life with her troubled son, Randall, who has been in and out of jail and has had some issues with dealing drugs. So we're going to start to dive into that."
But while Cuoco's clearly delighted to have Sagal on set, the long-running series is also getting a couple of cast members she’s not too thrilled about -- babies!
See more in the video below.
Before Linda Thompson tied the knot with Caitlyn Jenner in 1980, the author and songwriter had already experienced a whirlwind romance with another world famous celebrity -- Elvis Presley. Now, Thompson is opening up about her nearly five-year relationship with The King.
"I was still a virgin when I met him," Thompson tells ET's Nancy O'Dell during an intimate sit-down to discuss her new memoir, A Little Thing Called Life: On Loving Elvis Presley, Bruce Jenner, and Songs in Between. Presley and Thompson met in Memphis on July 6, 1972, when she was 22.
"I think that is what added to the allure of me for him," she recounts. "Because he was a very territorial man. And a very jealous man. It really made him feel wonderful that I was a virgin."

Presley had actually been special to Thompson as far back as childhood, when she told her parents that she'd one day marry the legendary singer when she grew up.
"When I was six years old, sitting at the breakfast table, I [told my parents], 'I am going to marry Elvis Presley,'" Thompson remembers.
While she never walked down the aisle with the music superstar, she did end up dating him for over four years, eventually splitting up in 1976, eight months before Elvis died of a heart attack. During that time, Thompson says she learned a lot about The King that she never expected.
"I saw prescription medication on his nightstand," Thompson says, "and when I questioned, 'Have you been ill?' He stammered and he didn't really have a good answer for it."
"I had never been around drug abuse or alcoholism, my parents didn't even keep alcohol in the house, not even beer," she adds. "I was pretty green going in."
While the prescription pill abuse got worse over the course of their relationship, Thompson says Presley started cheating on her as well, and frequently.
"Elvis was not monogamous. As we say in the South, bless his heart. He just wasn't monogamous," she says. "He had a tremendous capacity to love and he loved women and women loved him… I was happy to share him with his legions of fans and even understood sharing him occasionally to infidelity, but it didn't make it any easier."
After four years, Thompson says she wanted a regular life and a chance to raise a family in a healthy household, which wasn't something she thought she could have with Presley.
"I didn't think that lifestyle would be conducive to family life," she recalls. "I had to make a decision. It was a tough one and I felt depleted once I left."
Before calling it quits with the rock 'n' roll legend, Thompson says she had a prophetic moment about her future relationship with Jenner, similar to her youthful declaration that she'd one day marry Presley.
"Elvis and I were sitting in bed watching the 1976 Olympics from Montreal and this incredible visage of a man, this incredible specimen of man crossed the finish line of the decathlon," she shares, recounting Jenner's triumphant Olympic performance. "Elvis turned to me and said, 'You know, I am not gay, but that man is a damn good-looking man,' and I said, 'He is. In fact, I think one day I am going to marry him,' and Elvis said, 'Yeah, over my dead body.'"
"So it's an insanely crazy moment that, you know, of course I couldn't of had any portent of what was to come," she adds.
Four years later, in 1980, Jenner and Thompson sparked a relationship that lead to them tying the knot in 1981 and welcoming two children, Brandon and Brody Jenner. They would eventually divorce in 1986.
Five years after that relationship ended, Thompson hit things off with yet another icon: music producer and recording star David Foster.
"He's one of the funniest people that I have ever met and he is charming," Thompson marvels. "He had this raucous sense of humor, an irreverent sense of humor, and I hope he's forgiven me and the hurt that I have ever caused him."
Foster and Thompson filed for divorce in 2005, 14 years after they tied the knot and six years before he would go on to marry Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Yolanda Hadid.
"I feel very blessed that I have been able to love three great men," Thompson says, "Three really wonderful, sensitive, complicated men."
For more from Thompson on her relationship with Jenner and the struggles they faced during their five-year union, check out the video below.
Carrie Underwood isn't afraid to get a little sweaty.
The 33-year-old singer took to Instagram to share a selfie from her workout on Thursday, no makeup and all!
"I'm a sweaty mess, but I’m a sweaty mess in an adorable tank! @cailabycarrie #staythepath #nomakeup BeNice #run #KeepingItReal #cardio #love," she wrote, along with her barefaced pic. 
Of course, the "adorable tank" Underwood was sporting was a top from Calia, the line of activewear she launched last year. The new mom hasn’t been shy about touting her own collection on Instagram.
As for the secret to her toned physique? It's all about simplicity!
"You don't need that much," she told ET in May. "I like free weights and a Bosu, and you're in business. Maybe a medicine ball. I do lots of squats and lunges, and I like to run, I like to run outside if my knee allows me to. But just body weight stuff, push-ups, pull-ups."
"It doesn't have to be complicated," she added.
See more in the video below.
Sarah Jessica Parker is severing ties with Mylan, the company behind EpiPen, after learning that prices for the life-saving allergy drug have skyrocketed from $100 in 2009 to nearly $600 over the last several years.
The 51-year-old actress, whose 13-year-old son James, has a severe peanut allergy blasted the drug manufacturer, saying that EpiPen is a "vital part of our families healthcare as it is for many who are at risk."
In a lengthy statement via Instagram on Thursday, Parker explained her decision to walk away from Mylan
"I recently learned that the price of EpiPen has been systematically raised by Mylan to a point that renders the medication cost-prohibitive to most people," Parker wrote. "I'm left disappointed, saddened and deeply concerned by Mylan's actions. I do not condone this decision and I have ended my relationship with Mylan as a direct result of it."
The former Sex and the City star added in closing, "I hope they will seriously consider the outpouring of voices of those millions of people who are dependent on the device, and take swift action to lower the cost to be more affordable for whom it is a life-saving necessity."
EpiPen auto injectors contain the hormone epinephrine, used to fight off the potentially fatal allergic reaction known as anaphylactic shock.
Though the drug reportedly only carries $1 worth of medicine, and cost less than $60 in 2007, Mylan has raised the price on EpiPens about 10 to 15 percent on a semi-annual basis.
However, Mylan is attempting to remedy the situation following public outrage, which also included a statement from Hillary Clinton, who called the price hike "outrageous."
MORE: Jennifer Lopez Reunites With Pal Leonardo DiCaprio at Star-Studded Hillary Clinton Fundraising Event
Amid the continued backlash, Mylan announced  on Thursday that it is taking "immediate action" to make the drug more affordable, which includes offering an instant savings coupon covering up to $300, for those who have to pay out-of-pocket for the drug.
"We have been a long-term, committed partner to the allergy community and are taking immediate action to help ensure that everyone who needs an EpiPen Auto-Injector gets one,” Mylan CEO Heather Bresch said in a press release.
“We recognize the significant burden on patients from continued, rising insurance premiums and being forced increasingly to pay the full list price for medicines at the pharmacy counter," Bresch explained. "Patients deserve increased price transparency and affordable care, particularly as the system shifts significant costs to them."
Bresch blamed the price hike on a greater issue within the health care industry, and implored "all involved" to “take steps to meaningfully address the U.S. health care crisis."
A bit of good news for Ryan Lochte.
The 32-year-old Olympic swimmer has secured a new endorsement deal with Pine Bros. Softish Throat Drops.
"Thanks to all the folks at Pine Bros. for your confidence in me," he wrote on Twitter. "I look forward to making you proud." 
Lochte has agreed to appear in a commercial and print ads for Pine Bros., a popular cough drop brand that has been in business for over 140 years. The ads will be shot in Los Angeles over the next few weeks, according to a statement released by the company.
Rider McDowell, Pine Bros. CEO, reached out to Lochte last week after Ralph Lauren and Speedo terminated their sponsorships with the swimmer.
"We all make mistakes, but they're rarely given front-page scrutiny," McDowell said. "He's a great guy who has done incredible work with charities. I’m confident that Pine Bros. fans will support our decision to give Ryan a second chance."
Last week, Lochte took "full responsibility" for his Rio robbery claims and for "over-exaggerating" a version of events where he stated that the taxi he shared with his teammates, Gunnar Bentz, Jack Conger, and James Feigen, was pulled over by men posing as police officers while headed to the Olympic Village. He also claimed he was robbed at gunpoint.
"And that's why I'm taking full responsibility for it, is because I over-exaggerated that story, and if I had never done that, we wouldn't be in this mess," Lochte explained to NBC's Matt Lauer, in his only interview about the scandal so far. "Those guys would never be in Rio, or were in Rio. None of this would have happened, and it was my immature behavior…"
See the latest on the scandal in the video below.
Leslie Jones is one step closer to justice.
The brutal cyber attack on the 48-year-old actress is currently being investigated by Homeland Security, ET confirms.
"The investigation is currently ongoing. In order to protect the integrity of the case, no further details are available at this time," a Public Affairs Officer for the Department of Homeland Security said in a statement to ET.
The Ghostbusters star's official website was hacked on Wednesday, revealing her personal identification, including information found in her driver's license and passport. The hacker also leaked multiple nude photos of what appears to be Jones, as well as pictures of her with celebrities like Rihanna and Kim Kardashian West.
While Jones has yet to respond to the hack, many famous faces have taken to Twitter to throw their support behind the comic, including Hillary Clinton.
"@Lesdoggg, no one deserves this—least of all someone who brings us so much joy. I’m with you. –H," the Democratic nominee tweeted on Thursday.
Wednesday's hack wasn't the first time Jones has faced online bullies. Just last week, the Saturday Night Live star opened up to Time magazine about being bombarded with racist tweets earlier this summer. 
"I was in my apartment by myself, and I felt trapped," Jones revealed. "When you're reading all these gay and racial slurs, it was like, I can't fight y'all. I didn't know what to do. Do you call the police?”
"Then they got my email, and started sending me threats that they were going to cut off my head and stuff they do to 'N words.' It's not done to express an opinion, it's done to scare you," she said.
See more in the video below.
If what they wear plays any role in their relationship, Justin Bieber and Sofia Richie truly are the perfect pair!
The hot new couple -- who first sparked romance rumors earlier this month when they were photographed holding hands on a beach in Laguna Beach, California -- were twinning in the fashion department long before they became an item.
ET's rounded up 13 times Bieber, 22, and Sofia, 18, seemingly swapped style secrets. Check out their eerily similar ensembles below!
1. Comfy & Casual
Not only do Bieber and Richie regularly sport edgy black hoodies, but they both keep their hoods pulled up and over their heads. The "Sorry" singer recently paired his sweatshirt with a baseball cap and khakis, while Richie dressed hers up with strappy heels and distressed skinny jeans.
2. Signature Accessory
When in doubt, throw on a bandana! The two love a good kerchief, and we can't blame them.
3. Band Tees & Distressed Denim Jeans
Looks like the duo share a passion for classic rock music, too! Bieber donned a colorful Nirvana T-shirt with ripped jeans to the 2015 American Music Awards, while Lionel Richie's daughter was photographed wearing a Def Leppard baseball tee in Los Angeles.
4. Cuties in Camo
The blonde model paired her low-rise camouflage pants with a cropped jacket and black hat for an impromptu Instagram photo shoot. Her beau, also clad in a black hat, opted for a camo jacket over a black hoodie while performing onstage during his Purpose World Tour.
5. Babes in Braids
Not everyone can pull off cornrows, but these two seem to do it well! Richie had some extra fun with the trendy 'do, incorporating pink extensions into her braided tresses.
6. Wild Style
Bieber rocked the stage at the 58th Annual GRAMMY Awards in a bright cheetah print jacket, which perfectly complements the chic one Richie modeled during one of her fashion photo shoots.
7. Homage to Hip-Hop
He loves Tupac, she loves Snoop Dogg -- their nearly identical graphic T-shirts seemingly prove their appreciation for rap most likely played a role in their coupling.
8. Vibrant Outerwear
But seriously, do these two share a closet? Bieber and Richie both turned heads in their colorful bomber jackets.
9. All-Black With White Kicks
When 75% of your wardrobe consists of black apparel, sometimes you just have to rock an all-black ensemble. Bieber and Richie did just that, styling their dark-hued outfits with white sneakers.
10. Hot Headgear
You can never go wrong with a beanie, and it looks likes Bieber and Richie have quite the collection! The two are frequently photographed wearing the accessory in various shades.
11. Motocross Muse
Richie turned 18 on Aug. 24, donning an ultra-sporty look for her birthday bash held one night earlier at Koi restaurant in Los Angeles. She wore a pair of motocross-inspired pants with a simple black tank top. Perhaps she took a style cue from Bieber's sexy dirt bike get-up?
12. Rockin' the Basics
An oversized gray top over a pair of black skinnies is a fashion favorite for this cute pair. Bieber styled his outfit with black-and-white kicks, while Richie went with black stilettos.
13. Seeing Double
Blond hair. Brown eyes. A sophisticated white blazer over a classy shirt. Couples who dress together, stay together, right?
Ryan Reynolds is acknowledging wife Blake Lively's special day with his trademark dry humor.
Lively turned 29 years old on Thursday, and in a rare move for the private couple, Reynolds gave his wife a shout-out on Twitter.
"Just want to wish Billy Ray Cyrus the most special, magical birthday ever," Reynolds joked, referring to the fact that today marks the country star's 55th birthday. "I love you with all my heart. Also, Happy Birthday to my wife."
Reynolds, 39, has been married to Lively since September 2012. The gorgeous couple has one daughter together, 1-year-old James, and is expecting baby number two soon. In April, a source close to the former Gossip Girl actress confirmed to ET that she's pregnant again.
ET talked to Lively in June, when she revealed that her hubby helped her get bikini ready for her role in The Shallows just 10 months after giving birth to James. He also read the script before her and gave his instant stamp of approval.
"He was very kind and generous to do that," Lively said. "I was really sick [at the time] and I was working, and so he read it and he was like, 'Aww the action is amazing.'"
Watch below:
He might not be dating Katy Perry, but at least now she knows his name.
That's right, the 31-year-old pop star is aware of the man who believed he had been dating her for the last six years, admitting she finds the situation "very sad."
Perry appeared on Sirius XM's "Morning Mashup" on Thursday, when the hosts asked her if she had seen the Catfish episode, where Spencer from Tennessee was convinced he and Perry were in love.
"Yes, somebody sent me a link," she revealed. "I didn't actually read through it, because I just think it's really unfortunate and very sad."
Perry further commented on the ruse when one of the hosts implied that Spencer, who went so far as to make Perry an engagement ring using his great-grandmother's emerald, wasn't "wide awake."
"Yeah, you know, not everyone can be, but I think that, you know, my heart goes out to him, actually," she said, "because anybody that's been fooled like that or just you know… People have dreams, and people live in different parts of the world where not everything is as accessible."
"Like, we live on the coast, and you know, we get stuff in a way that some other people don't get, and so I feel bad for him," she elaborated. "And so I didn't really like to indulge in that, because my heart would die."
In the Catfish episode, the show's hosts, Nev Schulman and Max Joseph, broke the news to Spencer that he had actually been communicating with a woman named Heather who lives in England.
Perry, meanwhile, was in Italy, enjoying her very real relationship with Orlando Bloom.
See more in the video below.
What's a girl to do after she's gone braless on Jimmy Kimmel Live? Wear nothing but a bra the very next day, of course!
Hours after rocking a yellow camisole on the late-night talk show…
…Kendall Jenner grabbed coffee with friends at Alfred Coffee & Kitchen in West Hollywood, California, on Thursday in a very curious, grunge-inspired outfit. The 20-year-old model sported a heavily ripped-up vintage Metallica T-shirt featuring the album art from their sophomore studio LP, Ride the Lightning.
The collar was left intact, but a giant U-shaped keyhole was cut to expose Jenner's chest and stomach, which she tastefully covered with a black bra. She accessorized with a neck full of chokers and a gold bodychain, then completed her rock n’ roll look with cropped, light-hued boyfriend jeans, white patent boots, and her beloved keychain accessories.
Who knew Jenner was the one for whom the bell tolls?
If this ensemble makes you scratch your head, Jenner probably doesn't care. She took to Snapchat with a close-up of the look, throwing a 100 emoji right over her envious abs.
The Vogue cover girl has gone heavy on the '90s looks lately, which is as on-trend as you'd expect from not just a model but a member of the Kardashian clan.
There was this off-the-shoulder ribbed tee she rocked with a bandana and topknot while at the horse races with her grandmother, Mary Jo, in July:
This Kardahsian-approved bodysuit and high-waisted jean combo, seen on Jenner and a pal in June:
And, of course, there was the belly-bearing outfit she wore to the Adele concert in Los Angeles earlier this month. It screams 1997, in the best way possible. Check it out in the video below.
The drama between Amber Heard and Johnny Depp isn't over yet.
After Heard was awarded $7 million in the divorce settlement with Depp and pledged to donate the full amount to charity, the 53-year-old actor sent a portion of the financial donations directly to two charities chosen by Heard. However, Heard is now insisting that Depp double the amount to account for his tax deduction, and to pay the full amount immediately rather than in installments.
"Amber Heard appreciates Johnny Depp's novel interest in supporting two of her favorite charities, the ACLU for domestic violence and the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles. This is great and unexpected news," a member of Heard's team said in a statement on Thursday. "However, if Johnny wishes to change the settlement agreement, we must insist that he honor the full amount by donating $14M to charity, which, after accounting for his tax deduction, is equal to his $7M payment obligation to Amber. We would also insist that the full amount be paid immediately and not drawn out over many years."
"Anything less would be a transparent attempt by Johnny's counsel, Laura Wasser and Patti Glaser, to reduce their client's true payment by half under the guise of newfound concern for charities that he has never previously supported," the statement continues.
Prior to the exes' latest disagreement, Depp's rep praised Heard in an announcement that the actor had sent the first of multiple installments to Heard's chosen charities.
"Following Amber Heard's announcement that her divorce settlement was to be divided equally and gifted to Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and the American Civil Liberties Union, two exceptionally deserving and important charities, Johnny Depp has sent the first of multiple installments of those monies to each charity in the name of Amber Heard, which when completed will honor the full amount of Ms. Heard's pledge," his rep said in a statement. "Ms. Heard’s generosity in giving to these wonderful causes is deeply respected."
Last week, Heard and Depp settled their divorce case, and the 30-year-old actress withdrew her restraining order against him.
"As described in the restraining order and divorce settlement, money played no role for me personally and never has," Heard later said in a statement revealing her plans to donate the entire $7 million she was awarded. "Except to the extent that I could donate it to charity and, in doing so, hopefully help those less able to defend themselves."
"Hopefully, this experience results in a positive change in the lives of people who need it the most," she added.
Courtney Stodden is trying some unconventional methods to deal with the devastating miscarriage she suffered in July.
Stodden, 21, Instagrammed a video of herself on Wednesday cradling her "reborn baby," which she says her therapist suggested she buy. Reborn baby dolls are dolls that are made to look and feel just like newborn infants, and can cost anywhere from $180 to more than $550.
"Just received my reborn baby today! Exciting," Stodden wrote. "I know it may seem a little strange but my therapist suggested that having him may help me cope with my loss."
The video shows Stodden -- wearing a pink wig after she shaved her entire head earlier this month -- excitedly holding the doll, and sounding on the brink of tears.
"Oh my God, this is amazing," she says. "Oh, he's so pretty. So beautiful."
"Look at your brother," she later tells her dog.
Stodden also shared the doll's birth certificate, which lists its weight at 5 lbs., 6 oz.
Clearly, the doll looks stunningly realistic.
"The Babies," she captioned another pic of the doll holding a puppy.
The model announced she was expecting her first child with her husband, 56-year-old Lost actor Doug Hutchison, in May. Sadly, Stodden's rep confirmed to ET that she suffered a miscarriage last month.
She later penned a heartbreaking letter to her unborn baby.
"My precious Angel," she wrote. "I never had a chance to hold your tiny hand. Never will I get to kiss your little warm feet. Never will I have the fortune to look into your precious eyes."
"I will never get over this...losing you," Stodden added. "I hope you know how much I miss you growing inside of my tummy. I hope that you know that I wanted to give you life -- a beautiful life -- and desired so much to watch you grow into an incredible human being."
Watch below:
Kim Kardashian West just can't stop showing off her fit physique. And who can blame her?!
The 35-year-old reality star, who has lost 70 pounds since giving birth to son Saint in December, continued to flaunt her toned bod as she beat the Mexican heat with another sexy, sheer look last week.
Kim appeared to be posing for another photo shoot while at pal Joe Francis' Casa Aramara in Punta Mita, Mexico, stepping out in high-waisted black Supreme bikini bottoms and a black sheer crop top that left little to the imagination.
The Keeping Up With the Kardashians star opted for a slightly more covered-up look later in the day, pairing her black string bikini bottoms with a nude bikini top and white T-shirt.
Kim's racy looks have clearly drawn a lot of eyeballs, including those of her sister, Khloe, who couldn't help but give Kim's bod a shout-out on social media. "My body motivation 😍😍 Mrs. West," she wrote on Instagram.
But days later, it was back to business for Kim, who Snapchatted her final thoughts on her Mexican getaway.
"I just don't get why I'm so pale after Mexico," she said to her fans on Thursday. "I didn't actually lay out that much. I think my spray tan just wore off."
Spray tan or not, Kim clearly isn't scared to put her beautiful body on display. The mother of two also proudly showed off her booty on Snapchat last week to celebrate her arrival in Mexico.
See more in the video below.
Eva Longoria is the newest member to join the CW's Jane the Virgin!
The 41-year-old actress and producer took to social media on Thursday to confirm the news.
EXCLUSIVE: 'Jane the Virgin' Boss Confirms Jane Will Finally Have Sex in Season 3 
"Ohhhhh can't wait! Jane The Virgin get ready!" she wrote on Twitter announcing that she would be directing episode #303 of the hit show. 
The new episode, titled "Chapter Forty-Seven," was written by Carolina Rivera and Micah Schraft. No word yet if she'll also guest star on the episode.
Gina Rodriguez, who stars as Jane, has been giving fans a sneak peek of the new season, and recently posted a few Instagram photos with co-stars Justin Baldoni and Brett Dier.
Baldoni also shared a cute snap from what appears to be a daycare center. "TV family fun," he captioned the post. 
The new season of Jane the Virgin premieres on Monday, Oct. 17 at 9 p.m. on The CW.
Carlton Gebbia's marriage of 18 years is on the rocks, a source close to the former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star tells ET.
According to the source, Gebbia and her husband, David, have been separated for a year and are "living together and raising their children under the same roof."
"She wants her children to have a solid foundation and not be living in two homes," the source says. "They've been married for 18 years. There's no reason they can't raise they're children together."
Last Friday night, the source says the estranged couple had a "horrid argument" over their "pending divorce and money."
EXCLUSIVE: Keshia Knight Pulliam Breaks Down Amid Divorce Drama, Shoots Down Cheating Rumors
Gebbia was reportedly hospitalized on Friday following an incident at the Los Angeles nightclub, Bootsy Bellows. Paramedics were called out to the establishment and the former reality star was seen being placed in a wheelchair before she was taken out on a stretcher to the ambulance, according to TMZ.

EXCLUSIVE: RHONY Star Luann de Lesseps Reveals Why She Forgave Her Fiance
Soap opera star Kassie Wesley DePaiva disclosed to her fans on Thursday that she has been diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia.
"(I) have spent six of the last nine weeks in the hospital," the 55-year-old actress wrote on her blog. "I will continue treatment over the next three months. My prognosis is good, I will not likely need a stem cell/bone marrow transplant, and we expect a complete cure. I consider this just a bump in the road."
DePaiva portrayed Blair Cramer on One Life to Live for 10 years, before returning to her role as Eve Donovan Larson on Days of Our Lives.
The daytime TV star praised her support group for being there for her during this difficult time. "I have amazing prayer warriors, family, and friends that have been extremely supportive," she continued. "I have a strong faith that strengthens me every step of the way."
EXCLUSIVE: Valerie Harper Opens Up About Her First Starring Film Role Since Cancer Diagnosis
DePaiva promised her fans that she plans to return to Days of Our Lives when she's able. "Although I'm unable to be 'camera ready' now...my goal is (to) get back to stirring up trouble in Salem soon," she wrote. "Keep me in you(r) thoughts and prayers."
Former Beverly Hills, 90210 star Shannen Doherty has been very vocal about her battle with breast cancer, and recently spoke to ET about her struggles. "It's hard. I started thinking that I wasn't going to live... I don't look past today," she said. "I don't know if I'll ever look like me again," she adds, wearing a scarf over her head."
Looks like one couple's awesome dance moves has paid off in a big way.
Adele shared a heartwarming moment with two of her fans at her recent concert at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, when she agreed to attend their upcoming wedding after spotting them dancing in the audience. The 28-year-old singer brought up a man named Vince and his partner, Ryan, onstage, when they informed her about their engagement.
"He was dancing like no one was watching, but I was, so I want him to come up," Adele explained, calling out 25-year-old Vince.
When Ryan, 26, mentioned the two were getting married in Montana in September, Adele readily accepted the invitation from Vince after hilariously asking where exactly Montana was.
"I would love to come!" the "Send My Love" exclaimed. "My tour should be over by then, so I'll come."
Ryan later cracked, "What's your rate?," after which Adele assured him, "Don't worry, I'll do it for free. I'll do it for you for free."
Adele has showed her support for the LGBTQ community before, crying onstage at her show in Antwerp, Belgium, in June, when she dedicated her performance to the victims of the devastating mass shooting at Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida.
"I want to start tonight by dedicating this entire show to everyone at Pulse nightclub last night," Adele told the audience as they applauded. "The LGBTQ community, they're like my soulmates since I was really young, so I'm very moved by it."
Of course, Vince and Ryan aren't the only couple Adele has celebrated during her sold-out tour. Adele helped a gay couple get engaged during a concert in Denmark in May.
Watch below:
Rob Kardashian is ready to mend fences.
In a clip from this Sunday's episode of Keeping Up With the Kardashians, the 29 -year-old reality star sits down with momager Kris Jenner, to talk about his strained relationship with his sisters after proposing to Blac Chyna.
"I get that you're in this new relationship, that's amazing for you," Kris explains. "But it doesn't mean that you can't still be close to all of us – that's how life works."
Rob then points out that it's hard to reach out and have a close bond with his sisters when they haven't been accepting of his romantic relationship with  Chyna.
"No, I know, but you all aren't like that welcoming of this relationship, so you can't expect me to just be like, 'Oh, let's all hang out and everything's cool and fine,'" Rob says. "It's not that easy."
Kris then shifts the focus to Rob's relationship with Khloé Kardashian.
"I want you and Khloé to be OK and happy and connected. It's your sister," she points out. "You know, she's had a hard year and is going through a bad time with all the Lamar [Odom] stuff still, and she couldn't need her family more than she does now, and that includes you."
"If you made an effort just to kind of mend the feelings that are hurt and just try to get back on track with everyone, it would be so easy if you would just make the first move," Kris adds.
Watch the clip above to see who Rob decides to call first.
Keeping Up With the Kardashians airs Sundays  at 9 p.m. ET on E!
Johnny Depp and Amber Heard appear much more amicable now that their divorce is settled.
The 30-year-old actress was awarded $7 million in the divorce settlement with Depp, and chose to donate it all to charity. On Friday, ET confirmed that the actor had sent financial donations to the two charities chosen by Heard.
"Following Amber Heard’s announcement that her divorce settlement was to be divided equally and gifted to Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and the American Civil Liberties Union, two exceptionally deserving and important charities, Johnny Depp has sent the first of multiple installments of those monies to each charity in the name of Amber Heard, which when completed will honor the full amount of Ms. Heard’s pledge," his rep said in a statement. "Ms. Heard’s generosity in giving to these wonderful causes is deeply respected."
Last week, Heard explained to ET why she chose to give her settlement money to these organizations. "The donation will be divided equally between the ACLU, with a particular focus to stop violence against women, and the Children’s Hospital of Los Angeles, where I have worked as a volunteer for the past 10 years alongside organizations like the Art of Elysium," she said in a statement. "Over the years, I have seen firsthand how more funding for staffing, better equipment and better medication can make the difference between life or death for a child."
Both charities have thanked the actress for her generous contributions. "I know these organizations will put the funds to good use and look forward to continuing to support them in the future," Heard concluded. "Hopefully, this experience results in a positive change in the lives of people who need it the most."
The exes settled their lengthy case last week after Heard withdrew her request for a domestic violence restraining order against Depp, 53. "Our relationship was intensely passionate and at times volatile, but always bound by love," they said in a joint statement. "Neither party has made false accusations for financial gains. There was never an intent of physical or emotional harm."
Scott Eastwood has finally reached out to the father of his ex-girlfriend, Jewel Brangman, who tragically died in a car accident in 2014.
In a candid interview with GQ Australia, 30-year-old Scott said he didn't speak to Jewel's father, Alexander Brangman, after her death, because he still hasn't "found the right words." But in a new interview, Alexander says Scott apologized to him with a phone call on Tuesday night.
"He said, 'I didn't reach out because I didn't know what to say,'" Alexander tells People. "He was very apologetic."
The 61-year-old law professor admits he was disappointed when Scott didn't come to Jewel's funeral two years ago.
"Quite frankly, I was hurt by it," Alexander says, recalling the emotional time. "I was disappointed he didn't come to her celebration of life. Many people were actually disappointed. Many of her friends flew across the country to pay their respects and condolences. There wasn't even a flower sent."
He also had an issue with Scott talking about Jewel publicly, without his consent.
"I don't think he handled the situation properly," Alexander says bluntly.
Still, the grieving father showed some understanding when it comes to the Suicide Squad actor's actions.
"Maybe he didn't know how to grieve, and in some ways, I could have helped him," Alexander muses. "Or could still help him. I was angry -- but everybody grieves differently. You know, he's a kid, too. I didn't know what his grieving process is -- I'd like to get to know more of what he went through. Because that's a difficult thing."
"If he wants to confide in me the struggles he's been going through in regards to their relationship and her passing, I'll be more than glad to counsel him," he adds, explaining that Scott wanted to meet with him to discuss things in person.
Scott told GQ that Jewel's death has had a profound impact on him. "I've lost friends before; I’ve lost some great friends. But, I had never lost someone I had been really intimate with, you know, like in that way, in a relationship," he said. "I think that really affected me in a way that... I don't know. Maybe it’s made it harder for me to date."
On Sept. 7, 2014, while driving from San Diego to Los Angeles, California, Jewel was killed after she rear-ended a van while driving a 2001 Honda Civic, according to the accident report obtained by ET. She was just 26 years old.
"The f**ked up thing is, it was a fender bender, and there was a recall on airbags," Scott told the magazine. "Her airbag exploded. It shot a projectile through her body. It split her spine, and um... I've never told anybody that."
Watch the video below for more on Scott and Jewel's relationship.
The Ballers star is ballin'!
According to Forbes, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson is the world's highest-paid actor, earning a whopping $64.5 million in a year. That's more than double what the 42-year-old star made in 2015, and $20 million more than Jennifer Lawrence, the world's highest-paid actress two years in a row.
It was a big year for Johnson, who earned upfront salaries for Central Intelligence, Fast 8 and Baywatch, and the success of his film San Andreas also saw his net worth skyrocket.
The second highest-earning actor may come as a surprise to some moviegoers. Rush Hour star Jackie Chan earned a whopping $61 million for his film work in China, while Matt Damon takes the number three spot, grossing $55 million, largely in part for The Martian's box office success.
Rounding out the top five on Forbes' list is Tom Cruise ($53 million) and Johnny Depp ($48 million).
As for Johnson's Fast and Furious frenemy, Vin Diesel takes the number seven spot on the list, grossing an annual income of $35 million thanks to his roles in Guardians of the Galaxy and Furious 8.
The co-stars' alleged feud may finally be over as Diesel recently praised Johnson's work on Fast 8, saying he "shined in it." Here's more on the action stars' on-set scandal:
Terra Jolé has her eyes on the coveted mirror ball trophy!
The 36-year-old Little Women: LA star has signed on for season 23 of Dancing With the Stars, a source confirmed to ET on Thursday.
Jolé, who is married to Joe Gnoffo, just gave birth to her second child, son Grayson Vincent, earlier this month. The couple is also parents to 1-year-old daughter Penelope. In addition to being a mom and gearing up for DWTS, she's also been busy filming her hit Lifetime series.
So just how impressive are Jolé's dancing skills? ET has obtained an exclusive sneak peek look from Little Women: LA's mid-season, which briefly shows a pregnant Jolé and her pals at a belly dancing class. Girl can shake it, and we can't wait to see more from where that came from!
While the final DWTS celebrity cast won't be revealed until Aug. 30, sources confirmed to ET that Amber Rose will be competing on the hit show. Former Disney Channel star Jake T. Austin is "100 percent" set, and General Hospital's Emma Samms is "definitely in."
As for the pros, Maksim Chmerkovskiy will be returning to the stage for the first time since 2014. Joining him is his younger brother, Val, as well as Allison Holker, Emma Slater, Witney Carson, Sharna Burgess, Artem Chigvintsev, Lindsay Arnold, Sasha Farber and Gleb Savchenko.
Dancing With the Stars premieres Monday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
- Reporting by Brendon Geoffrion
LeaAnn Rimes is feeling bold.
The 33-year-old singer went to celeb hot spot The Nice Guy in West Hollywood, California, with her husband, Eddie Cibrian, on Wednesday night, where she had no problem baring lots of skin. Rimes sported a black velvet blazer but opted to ditch the shirt, pairing the plunging top with short shorts and strappy heels.
It turns out Rimes was celebrating her birthday early, and Instagrammed about her sexy outing on Thursday. The "Blue" singer officially turns 34 on Aug. 28.
"Last night was bday fun with a few of my bff's. This one especially... I love him! #bday #happybdaytome #hubbylove #lucky #34," she captioned a sweet selfie with 43-year-old Cibrian.
From the looks of it, Rimes is fitter than ever approaching her 34th birthday. Just last week she shared a bikini pic on Instagram, flaunting her toned abs.
Earlier this month, Rimes talked about the possibility of having kids with Cibrian. The singer is already a stepmom to Cibrian's two kids with his ex-wife, former Real Housewives of Beverly Hills star Brandi Glanville -- 13-year-old Mason and 9-year-old Jake.
"Oh of course that's going to come up! We practice a lot!" Rimes quipped about her and her hubby during her appearance on ITV1's Loose Women. "I'll take my time."
Watch below:
Aaliyah was truly one in a million.
The late singer's acclaimed sophomore album, One in a Million, turns 20 on Saturday. Sadly, the milestone coincides with another tragic event: Thursday marks the 15th anniversary of Aaliyah's untimely death.
The superstar-in-the-making was only 17 years old when she released her Age Ain't Nothin' But a Number follow-up, leaving behind a controversial relationship with R. Kelly in favor of a new team of fresh-faced collaborators: introducing a then little-known Timbaland and Missy Elliott to the world. The album marked a major mainstream breakthrough for both artists, who would go on to become titans in the music industry. 
Today, the album's title track -- written and produced by Missy and Timbaland -- remains the biggest hit of Aaliyah's career, notching an impressive eight weeks at No. 1 on the Billboard Mainstream R&B/Hip-Hop chart, and staying on the chart for a total of 26 weeks. 
Aaliyah would go on to release a critically acclaimed self-titled album in 2001, just a few short months before her death, bringing her discography up to three full-lengths in her lifetime. While all three LP's saw posthumous sales bumps for the singer, One in a Million was the only album to achieve multi-platinum status prior to her death.
One in a Million saw a steady increase in sales through 1996 and 1997. The album reached two-time multi-platinum status (selling more than two million certified units) on June 16, 1997, less than one year after its release, according to the Recording Industry Association of America.
By comparison, her debut, Age Ain't Nothin' But a Number, was released on May 24, 1994, and was certified platinum (selling one million units) in September of that year. Age reached two-times multi-platinum in October 2001, two months after her death. Her final album quickly followed suit, selling a half-million copies about a month after its release, and reaching one million just five days after her death. Aaliyah was officially certified two-times multi-platinum in February 2002.
Numbers aside, the sexy and smooth sound of One in a Million is still celebrated today. In 2011, Rolling Stone named it as one of the 100 Best Albums of the Nineties, alongside offerings from Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, Nirvana, Fiona Apple, the Rolling Stones, and more. 
"It's a great feeling to have people accept the album and love the album," Aaliyah told ET at the 1997 Soul Train Music Awards, where she was nominated for Best R&B/Soul Album, Female. "You know how they say sophomore jinx, and to have people really love the One in a Million album really means a lot to me. I thank the Lord every day and I thank my fans for their support."
Aaliyah died tragically in a plane crash on Aug. 25, 2001. She was just 22 years old. Today, her peers in the music industry continue to honor the late singer in many ways, from sampling her music in new songs to sharing heartfelt remembrances each year.
Last week, Frank Ocean covered her version of "At Your Best (You Are Love)" -- originally by the Isley Brothers -- on his visual album, Endless. Earlier this year, T.I. sampled Aaliyah's unmistakable "Rock the Boat" vocals on his new single, "Dope." 
Chris Brown gave Aaliyah a posthumous feature on his "Don't Think They Know" in 2013, one year after Drake remixed and released her song, "Enough Said."
In fact, Drake and longtime collaborator Noah "40" Shebib had big plans to release a full album of Aaliyah recordings, but scrapped the project after facing backlash from her fans and family. 
"[Aaliyah]'s mother saying, 'I don't want this out' was enough for me," 40 told Vibe in 2014. "I walked away very quickly."
Meanwhile, Timbaland – who maintained a close personal and professional relationship with the singer over the years -- made good on his own promise to release new Aaliyah music on Christmas Day 2015. "Aaliyah... This is for you, baby," he wrote on Twitter, unveiling a new song, "Shakin," as part of his King Stays King mixtape. 
"Man, she was an angel," America's Got Talent host Nick Cannon told ET's Denny Directo earlier this week. "I had the opportunity to meet her and hang out with her a few times. We had a lot of fun. [She's] just one of the most beautiful spirits and most compelling vibrations that this planet has ever seen."
Viewers of this year's MTV Video Music Awards may not see a very familiar face.
It was learned last month that Taylor Swift was not nominated for a "Moonman" at the 2016 VMAs… and no, it isn't a mistake.
MORE: Beyonce and Adele Dominate the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Nominations
Though Swift scored 10 nods in 2015 for her hit album, 1989, most of her music was not eligible this time around.
However, she did come out with videos for "Wildest Dreams," "Out of the Woods" and "New Romantics” within the nomination cut-off.
The looming absence of the 26-year-old superstar is sure to leave a void in the broadcast as Swift has attended seven out of the last eight awards shows, only skipping in 2011.
While it hasn't been confirmed if the six-time VMA winner will be a part of the show either as a performer or a presenter, she was spotted out and about in New York City (where the event is being held this weekend) on Wednesday, so there is still hope for a Swift cameo!
If Tay turns out to be a no-show, take a look at what she could be missing on Sunday night:
Potential Run-ins With Kanye West or Ex-Boyfriend Calvin Harris
West and Harris certainly have something to celebrate at this year's show -- the 39-year-old rapper was nominated for "Video of the Year" and "Best Male Video" while Harris has been recognized for his work on "How Deep Is Your Love" and "This Is What You Came For," a song actually penned by Swift. The former couple split in June, and what started off as an amicable breakup, turned into the DJ calling out his former love as "hurtful" and accusing her of trying to "bury" him.
MORE: 8 VMA 2016 Rumors We Hope Are True

Britney Spears’ Return to the Stage After 9 Years
This could be Swift's chance to have a more memorable meeting with Britney Spears! The 34-year-old pop princess recently claimed in an interview that she "never met" the "Wildest Dreams” singer but the two actually posed for a snap together at Swift's very first VMA appearance in 2008. Brit is set to take the stage on Sunday for the first time since her 2007 performance of “Gimme More."
Partying With One of Her Besties
Swift may not make it, but a member of her squad is likely to walk the carpet -- Gigi Hadid. Her boyfriend Zayn Malik's "Pillowtalk" music video (starring Gigi) was nominated for "Best Visual Effects." It could be a family affair for the Hadids as Gigi’s younger sis, Bella, may be on hand to support her man, The Weeknd, who also scored two noms.
Rihanna Receiving the Video Vanguard Award
RiRi is slated for one of the night's biggest moments -- the presentation of the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award. Swift, who, at first, silently collaborated with Rihanna and ex-boyfriend Harris on "This Is What You Came For," under the pseudonym Nils Sjoberg, could miss seeing the "Work” singer honored with the VMAs' most prestigious honor.
The VMAs airs Sunday at 9 p.m. ET live from New York's Madison Square Garden on MTV.  For more on the show, watch below:
If ever there were to be a remake of Pretty Woman, Kate Beckinsale should definitely be considered.
On Thursday, the 43-year-old actress shared an adorable photo of herself in the bathtub while blowing a bubble with her gum. "Bubble bath," she cleverly captioned the image.
Beckinsale's selfie reminds us of that iconic scene in Pretty Woman when Julia Roberts is singing to Prince in the bubble bath.
The Underworld star's Instagram game has been pretty strong this summer. Last month, she posed in an inflatable penis costume and had the best photo caption for her epic pic. "Just a girl trying to make it in a man's world," she quipped.

Check it out:
John Krasinki admits that bulking up for his role in 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi made him "so much more confident" in the bedroom.
"Totally selfishly, [sex] is so much better for me being jacked," the 36-year-old actor -- who recently welcomed his second child with wife Emily Blunt -- tells ELLE magazine. "Because you feel so much more confident and you see yourself as this much more sexual person, which is really fun."
EXCLUSIVE: John Krasinski Dishes on Baby No. 2 and Wife Emily Blunt's Mary Poppins Prep
His 33-year-old wife also isn't complaining about her husband's fit physique. “The truth is, she really is that person who would like me any way,” he adds. “But I don't think she's going to kick the eight-pack abs out of bed.”
Krasinski also can't get over how great Blunt looks after just having a baby in June. "Even I have to work way to hard to even look like this," he joked with ET. "And she just does it by waking up."
Taylor Swift is still using the streets of New York City as her own personal runway.
The 26-year-old singer went to dinner on Wednesday night with YouTube star Todrick Hall, where she turned heads in a matching yellow lace crop top and miniskirt. The eye-catching look highlighted her slim stomach and famously long legs, which she accentuated with a pair of casual gray heels. Pink lipstick and a pink bag completed the super feminine style.
.... Though we're a bit sad to see her natural curls go!
ET was with Hall last month, when he passionately defended his good pal.
Swift has been spending some solo time in NYC away from her beau, 35-year-old British actor Tom Hiddleston, thanks to his busy schedule filming Thor: Ragnarok in Australia -- where he's also found time to do good deeds.
But has the long distance taken its toll on the new relationship? The couple reportedly had their first "major argument" earlier this month due to not spending as much time together, Us Weekly reports. The pair was inseparable when they first started dating in June, traveling to Nashville, England, Italy, and Australia together.
Hiddleston recently reflected on his summer in the spotlight thanks to dating the GRAMMY-winning superstar.
"I've learned that there are many sides to a story, and that sometimes there are a lot of stories out there which are false, and the hardest thing is to not let the falsehoods affect your mind," he candidly told the Hollywood Reporter.
Watch below:



Spice Girls singer Geri "Ginger Spice" Halliwell is candidly sharing her battle with bulimia for the latest installment of the OWN network’s Where Are They Now? series.
In the episode airing on Saturday at 10 p.m., Halliwell, 44, details living a double life of sorts.  As the the Spice Girls shot to stardom in the mid-90s, Halliwell grew obsessed with her appearance, and the glare of the spotlight only made things worse.
"I felt much more conscious of myself, my body weight," Halliwell says. "We all used different tools to get by, coping mechanisms. For me [it] was controlling my body weight."
READ: Geri Halliwell Shares Spice Girls Memories, Says She Was 'Mesmerized' by Victoria Beckham
Unbeknownst to her fellow group members, Halliwell was trapped in a cycle of dieting, "comfort eating,"and purging.
"I started being bulimic and no one would notice it because your body weight stays pretty much the same," the British pop star explains. "It's bloody dangerous."
With the help of 12-step meetings, Halliwell was able to beat her eating disorder. She's now passionate about baking, having won the U.K.'s Sports Relief Bake Off earlier in the year, and no longer acts out with food.
MORE: New 'Wannabe' Video Promotes Important Female Issues: See How the Spice Girls Reacted!
Halliwell, who is a mom to a 10-year-old daughter named Bluebell, loves to share pics on Instagram, doing everything from enjoying birthday cake, to baking some goodies of her own.
After welcoming her first child in late June, Audrina Patridge admits she was hesitant to show off her little girl to the world. But in a new blog post on Wednesday, The Hills alum, 31, gave fans the first official look at her daughter, Kirra Max Bohan.
“I know these pictures were a long time coming, so I want to thank you all for your patience,” Patridge wrote. “I guess this new parenting thing has made us a little overprotective of our baby, but now that we have had time to soak it all in and adjust to our newest addition, I can’t wait to begin this journey as a new mother and share everything I learn along the way!”
MORE: Audrina Patridge Explains Why She Didn't Invite Any of Her 'Hills' Co-Stars to Her Wedding
In the photos, Patridge’s sweet baby is grinning from ear to ear while playing with her mom and dad, Corey Bohan.
“Kirra is the happiest, most beautiful baby with a constant smile and lots of goo-ing and gaa-ing!” Patridge said. “She loves giving Corey and I the biggest smiles, but I can’t wait until she giggles for the first time — right now she gives lots of expressions but no noise. She sleeps 6-7 hours a night (only waking up once or twice) and is pretty laid back (unless of course she’s hungry, has to burp, needs a diaper change, or gets restless!).”
The first-time parents are soaking up time with their little one, cherishing every moment.
“I absolutely love being a mom — Kirra is my number one priority,” Patridge continued. “If I’m being completely honest, the first month of no sleep, C-Section recovery, unpacking, and getting back into the swing of things was pretty grueling. But, at the end of the day, all I had to do was take one look at Kirra and none of that mattered anymore.”
MORE: Audrina Patridge Shares First Photo of Baby Kirra -- See the Cute Pic!
The couple is also planning their wedding together, but Patridge raised some eyebrows when she referred to Bohan’s parents as her “new in-laws.” Patridge and Bohan got engaged in November shortly before announcing that they were expecting a child together.
In June she told Fit Pregnancy magazine that her wedding dress shopping was on hold until after the baby so she could assess her size.
"I didn't want to rush getting married, because stress is bad for the baby," Patridge explained at the time. "I was a little worried about people judging me for it, but Corey wasn't. He said, 'Stop caring what people think. Their opinions don't matter.' Anyway, we've already been together for so long, it’s like we're already married. It's just a title at this point -- and a ring."
Maksim Chmerkovskiy will vie for the coveted mirror ball trophy once again.
The 36-year-old pro dancer, who is expecting his first child with fiancee Peta Murgatroyd, confirmed on Friday's Good Morning America that he will be returning to Dancing With the Stars for season 23 of the ABC reality competition series. His announcement comes just days after he was spotted at a photo shoot with the cast of the show.
EXCLUSIVE: Witney Carson Reacts to DWTS Casting Rumors -- From Simone Biles to Bachelorette Villain Chad
Chmerkovskiy has not competed on DWTS since 2014, when he won the season 18 mirror ball trophy with partner Meryl Davis.
Back then, he told ET that he had no intention of competing on the show again. “I don’t think so,” Chmerkovskiy said when asked if he would be returning the following season. “This is exhausting. It has nothing to do with money. The first thing that I did after hugging her [Meryl] … was come up to Derek [Hough] and I was like, ‘Dude, I don’t know how you do it.’ He did it five times. I have no idea.”
Chmerkovskiy’s younger brother, Val, is one of the nine pros that have also been announced for the new season, which also include Emma Slater, Witney Carson, Sharna Burgess, Artem Chigvintsev, Lindsay Arnold, Sasha Farber, Gleb Savchenko and Allison Holker.
As for the celebrities competing this season, ET has learned that in addition to Amber Rose, The Fosters star Jake T. Austin is "100 percent" ready to hit the dance floor, as well as General Hospital's Emma Samms.
EXCLUSIVE: Kym Johnson Says She's Done With Dancing With the Stars After Marrying Robert Herjavec -- 'What a Way to End'
However, fans won’t get the official word until the full cast is revealed on Aug. 30, on GMA. Dancing With the Stars premieres Monday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Congratulations are in order for Michael Yo and Claire Simmons!
The Insider co-host and his wife have announced they're expecting their first child, a baby boy!
"[We found out] on the first day of our honeymoon in Italy!" Yo tells ET. "We waited four months after our wedding to take our honeymoon because of our crazy schedules."
So far, Yo says his wife is having an "easy pregnancy."
"No morning sickness. Hallelujah!!" he exclaims. "I’m so excited. Whenever she needs me, I am there -- from massages to cooking.  I can’t wait for the baby moon!"
Needless to say, Yo is very excited about fatherhood. "I can’t wait to pass along all the great things my parents have taught me about treating everyone equally," he says. "Living your dream and hopefully one day, he or she will be able to change the world."
The couple's baby news comes just a month after they celebrated their one-year anniversary of when Yo first popped the question. The two couldn't help but gush about their proposal on Instagram.
"I said 'YES' one year ago today!" Simmons exclaimed four weeks ago, along with an adorable shot of the couple. "@michaelyo makes me the happiest girl in the world! I love you forever and ever Michael!"
"One year ago I got engaged to the most incredible women in the world @claireelisesimmons," Yo wrote in his own post. "She is now my wife/EVERYTHING to me. You make everyday worth living, I love YOU!"
Yo, 41, and Simmons, 29, wed on Feb. 14, 2016, in a gorgeous Valentine's Day ceremony in Pasadena, California. The newlyweds said “I do” surrounded by friends and family, who donned the color red in celebration of the holiday.
The couple had been dating since 2013.
Yo and Simmons aren't the only ones focusing on all things baby -- Lance Bass revealed to ET last week that he and his husband, Michael Turchin, are hoping to expand their family.
"We plan on doing the baby thing ourselves sometime soon," Bass gushed, before sharing that he would trust fellow *NSYNC member JC Chasez to babysit.
See more in the video below.
Bold in red! Kate Middleton stepped out on Thursday for another day of charity work with Prince William looking stunning in a cherry red L.K. Bennett dress.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge met with representatives of YoungMinds, a mental health charity helpline, in London, England. This marks the second day of events for the Royals, who have been working hard to promote their children’s mental health initiative this year.
On Wednesday, the couple met with members of Youthscape, another organization dedicated to helping children with their mental health through therapy.
While at the Luton, England, location for the group, the Royals worked with one employee who has famous ties. Late night host James Corden took to Twitter on Wednesday to praise his sister, Ruth Corden, who was photographed showing the Royals around.
“That’s my sister!!!!! So proud of her today and the amazing work she’s doing. Go @Rudimuller,” The Late Late Show host captioned the photo.
MORE: Kate Middleton and Prince William Officially Announce Royal Tour of Canada in September -- Check Out All the Details!
The official Kensington Palace Twitter handle responded to the British star’s tweet, writing, “@JKCorden it was great to meet her – a lovely woman doing incredible work.”
In addition to their charity work, William and Kate will also be taking an official Royal Tour of Canada in late September. It is not confirmed whether their children, Prince George and Princess Charlotte, will be joining them.
It turns out, Kendall Jenner is not the best neighbor to have. The 20-year-old Vogue cover girl talked about her new home with Jimmy Kimmel, who happens to live directly across the street from her, on Wednesday night.
“I heard you’re a chef and I’m really offended you haven’t invited me over,” Kendall teased the late night host.
MORE: Kendall Jenner Granted Temporary Restraining Order Against Alleged Stalker: 'I Fear for My Life'
“Can you eat when you’re on the cover of Vogue?” he quipped.
Kimmel then told Jenner that her move sparked an angry email chain between members of the neighborhood.
“Our neighbors were up in arms when you moved onto the block. There was a whole thing with emails that went on,” he revealed.
“No! Bad?” a shocked Kendall asked.
“Yeah, bad!” he replied.
“I think I caused quite a ruckus on our street – I had like stalkers. There’s a lot going on,” she admitted.
Though Kendall seems able to poke fun at the situation now, Kendall was recently granted a temporary restraining order against her alleged stalker.
"As a result of Mr. McKenzie's repeated harassment and stalking of me, I fear for my life and have suffered, and continue to suffer, emotional distress," she stated in documents obtained by ET.
And though she’s caused a stir on the block, you won’t find one speck of dirt in Kendall’s new pad.
“Oh my God I’m, like, OCD. I’m the biggest neat freak ever,” she dished to Kimmel. “I’m like cleaning with my maids. I’m with them scrubbing the floors. I go to my friends’ houses [to clean] all the time. My little sister [Kylie Jenner], she thinks she’s ‘organized messy’ is what she likes to call it.”
Sofia Richie is keeping the party going. The daughter of Lionel Richie and Diana Alexander Richie was spotted outside a nightclub in Los Angeles on Wednesday night as she continued her 18th birthday celebrations.
Richie, who rocked a white crop top and a ripped denim jacket for the festivities, was snapped leaving the popular celebrity hotspot and appeared to be shouting and laughing at a group of photographers who had fallen over while trying to take her picture.
She then scurried into a car with her friends and headed off. Her rumored love, Justin Bieber, was also photographed leaving the club. 
Earlier in the day, Sofia was spotted out with friends, wearing a purple velvet crop top and ripped jeans while at a juice bar.
She posted a photo of the look to Instagram, writing, “18-new beginnings.”
The day before her birthday juice bar trip, Sofia was spotted at RAWkin’ Juice with the Biebs.
"He was very engaging with her the whole time, he was very attentive. They were the cutest little couple, there with a bodyguard," an eyewitness told ET. "You could just tell they were a couple and he seemed to really care about her."
Despite sharing that she was sick on Snapchat, Sofia has powered through to honor her milestone birthday with a slew of celebrations.
To ring in her 18th year, Sofia had a wild bash with her friends on Tuesday night, hitting the town in a black tank top for an evening of fun. Earlier that day she was spotted visiting Bieber’s house.
Bieber deleted his Instagram account this month after claiming his fans had threatened and insulted Richie. His comments sparked a feud between himself and exes Selena Gomez and Hailey Baldwin.
It takes two! On Wednesday night, James Corden revealed a little-known-fact about himself and actor John Krasinski on The Late Late Show.
“I’ve known John a very long time,” he told the audience. “We’ve actually worked together a lot. But for one reason or another it just hasn’t worked out. In fact, we’ve worked together so many times that a couple of years ago, they actually made a short documentary about how hard of a time we as a pair have had.”
MORE: John Krasinski Cooks Weekly Dinners For Emily Blunt -- All Thanks to Leonardo DiCaprio!
The show then flashed back to the “documentary” made in 2014 where the pair talked about their performances together.
“We’ve had the opportunity to star in some of the greatest motion pictures in history,” Corden said.
“Bizarrely, we’ve been fired from every single one of them,” Krasinski added.
First, they were cast in the roles later inhabited by Tom Cruise and Jack Nicholson from A Few Good Men, but when they had a “no, you can’t handle the truth, no, you can’t handle the truth” fight they were cut from the project.
After that Corden said the secret to their success was their lengthy history together.
“We’ve been working together since 1939. We ended up on the set of a little movie called Gone With the Wind,” Corden noted.
In the never-before-seen footage, Corden played Scarlett O’Hara while Krasinski flubbed the part of Rhett Butler, declaring, “Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a care,” while wearing aviator sunglasses before dropping a microphone.
“I’m actually glad we didn’t get those parts because the movie is not good,” The Office alum said.
“Gone With the Wind, more like Gone With Three Hours of My Life,” Corden quipped.
Turns out, the duo also got cast in Pulp Fiction, but instead of reciting Samuel L. Jackson’s famous monologue, they couldn’t stop rapping Coolio’s “Gangster’s Paradise.”
“That’s not the first part I’ve lost to Samuel L. Jackson, and I doubt it will be the last,” Corden said solemnly.
Sadly, things took a turn for the pair when Corden was cast in the musical adaptation of Into the Woods while Krasinski lost the role of the Baker’s Wife to his own wife, Emily Blunt.
Watch the hilarious clip now!
It’s official! After months of speculation and potential confirmations, Teen Mom 2 star Jenelle Evans took to Instagram on Wednesday to officially share the news of her third pregnancy with her fans.
The 24-year-old MTV star also revealed her baby’s gender and future name in the photo shoot with her boyfriend, David Eason.
MORE: 'Teen Mom 2' Star Jenelle Evans Seemingly Confirms Her Third Pregnancy
“Time to introduce the world to our baby girl soon, Ensley Jolie Eason,” Evans wrote. “She will be arriving Jan. 28th. We couldn’t be any happier! @uncledave01.”
In the photo, Evans is standing in a lake wearing a floral dress and a flower crown and looking lovingly at her beau.
Eason also posted a photo from the shoot – this one of him kissing Evans in a row boat and cradling her bump.
“IT’S A GIRL YALL!! I’m so happy im bout ta cry!! I love you so much @j_evans1219 and I can’t wait to meet our baby girl Ensley Jolie Eason!!” he wrote.
In July, Evans first addressed her pregnancy rumors in a since-deleted Instagram post. The news first broke when the mother of two was in a car accident and was listed as being 10 weeks pregnant in the official police report.
"I don't understand what is 'disappointing' or 'sad,'" she wrote. "Why not ask if I’m ok from the car accident?! Why not be concerned about my health?! I want privacy. All of you disgust me. It’s all about gossip these days… Funny someone else comes out with news they are pregnant and the world is overjoyed."
MORE: ‘Teen Mom 2’ Star Chelsea Houska Announces Her Second Pregnancy, Updates Fans on Her Wedding
Eason is already dad to 9-year-old daughter, Maryssa, from a previous relationship. Evans has two sons – Jace, 7, with her ex-boyfriend, Andrew Lewis, and Kaiser, 2, with her ex-fiancé, Nathan Griffith.
The couple has been dating since last fall, shortly after Evans and Griffith ended their engagement in a dramatic fashion. The exes are still at odds, with Griffith accusing Evans of being a drug addict during the most recent Teen Mom 2 reunion.
U.S. Soccer terminated goalkeeper Hope Solo's contract on Wednesday and suspended her from the Women's National Team for six months, in response to negative comments she made about the Swedish soccer team during the Rio Olympics.
After Sweden beat America in the women's tournament quarterfinals, Solo slammed the opposing team while speaking with sports writer Grant Whal, calling them "a bunch of cowards," and opining that "the best team did not win today."
"I thought that we played a courageous game. I thought we had many opportunities on goal. I think we showed a lot of heart," Solo said at the time. "But I also think we played a bunch of cowards… Sweden dropped off. They didn't want to open play. They didn't want to pass the ball. They didn't want to play great soccer… I don't think they're going to make it far in the tournament."
Sweden actually ended up making to the Olympic finals, where they lost 2-1 against Germany and took home the silver medal.
In a statement regarding their decision, U.S. Soccer President Sunil Gulati said that Solo's remarks were "unacceptable and do not meet the standard of conduct we require from our National Team players."
"Taking into consideration the past incidents involving Hope, as well as the private conversations we’ve had requiring her to conduct herself in a manner befitting a U.S. National Team member, U.S. Soccer determined this is the appropriate disciplinary action," Gulati continued.
After news of the suspension and contract termination broke, Solo addressed the developments in a message posted to Twitter, expressing that she is "saddened by the Federation's decision to terminate my contract."
"I could not be the player I am without being the person I am, even when I haven’t made the best choices or said the right things," Solo's statement continued. "My entire career, I have only wanted the best for this team, for the players and the women's game and I will continue to pursue these causes with the same unrelenting passion with which I play the game."
Rich Nichols, the general counsel for the women's national team's players association, also addressed the federation's decision, calling it "excessing, unprecedented, disproportionate, and a violation of Ms. Solo’s First Amendment rights."
Nichols said that USWNT players association questions "whether this action would ever has been taken against a male player or coach who, in the heated moments after a frustrating defeat, questioned the tactics of the opposing team."
Nichols went on to confirm that the association will file an appeal on Solo's behalf.
Aside from her questionable remarks about the Swedish soccer team, Solo faced controversy before the Rio Games even began after sharing a serious of Instagram pics wearing mosquito netting over her face and holding a huge bottle of insect repellent which she captioned with the hashtag "#ZikaProof."
The posts, which many in Brazil found offensive, lead to Solo being met with a loud chorus of boos and insults every time she touched the ball during a game. 
Talk about going out with a bang!
On Wednesday's season finale of The Real Housewives of New York, Bethenny Frankel showed LuAnn De Lesseps proof that her fiancé, Tom D'Agostino Jr., had a pretty intense make-out session with another woman. But don't worry, even though Lu's "worst nightmare" came true, it won’t stop her dream wedding from happening.
Check out 10 of the wildest moments below.
10. Waterworks Galore
Bethenny was an emotional wreck before she broke the news to Luann, and understandably so. It can’t be easy to tell someone who just got engaged that you have photos of their fiancé slobbing down another woman. Luann was getting misty-eyed the entire time while trying not to vomit, and not-so-patiently waiting for a bloody mary to arrive from room service.
Meanwhile in a nearby hotel room, Ramona Singer got to thinking about her own failed marriage, and the waterworks started flowing on her end too.
9. If All Else Fails, Blame It On The Alcohol

Tom was supposedly so drunk that he didn’t even remember swapping spit with another woman. Honest mistake.
8. Sonja Saw It Coming
If there's anyone who saw this coming, it's Sonja Morgan. She and Tom were reportedly "friends with benefits" for about a decade before he even met Luann.
Maybe Sonja really does know him better than we think? "I still don’t get why everyone is so surprised," she casually declared to Ramona.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside 'RHONY' Stars Luann de Lesseps and Ramona Singer's Stunning Hamptons Homes!
7. Location Is Everything
It seems the most upsetting part of the cheating scandal for Luann was Tom's decision to kiss another woman at New York City's Regency Hotel.
Never mind the fact that the lip lock lasted from 10:45 p.m. until 12:39 a.m., Luann felt like he didn't have to do it in such a public place.
6. Relationship Diagnoses
Bethenny quickly caught onto Luann’s preoccupation with the location of Tom's cheating, rather than the act itself, and it became pretty obvious that the Countess was ready to wage war with her favorite frenemy.
"Luanne doesn't have a lot of self respect," Bethenny concluded. "You have to love yourself and you should never accept less than what you deserve."
Sound advice.
5. Dorinda Won't Take The Fall
Still unsure about how to handle the whole cheating thing, Tom tried to get Dorinda Medley to lie for him, or face the consequence of being disinvited from the wedding, and maybe lose her friendship with Luann.
Dorinda was the one who introduced Luann to Tom, so why not pull her into the drama? Unfortunately for Tom, he failed at scaring Dorinda and she refused to get involved.
MORE: 'Real Housewives of New York City' Star Jules Wainstein Nervously Addresses Her Divorce on 'WWHL’
4. Party Time
After the girls made it back from Miami, and Luann checked into a posh NYC hotel while she worked things out with Tom, Bethenny threw a Mexican-themed shindig  -- complete with Skinnygirl product-placement, sombreros and fake mustaches for some photo booth fun, as well as a piñata filled with jewelry.
Luann painstakingly attempted to tell Bethenny to stay out of her business. You can pretty much guess how well that went over.
Oh, and Ramona partied so hard that she lost a shoe.
3. Village Sh*t Stirrer
Since the episode was all about confrontation and rocky friendships, Jules decided to jump in the fray.  Dorinda apparently misinterpreted Bethenny's words about Jules' eating disorder, and the mix-up earned her the title of the "village sh*t stirrer."
2. New Hairdo
In the midst of all the passive aggressive arguing, Carole's boyfriend, Adam Kenworthy, debuted a new hair cut at Bethenny’s party.
Oddly enough, Carole and Adam seem to be the only couple on the show with zero problems. And to think, Luann thought they wouldn’t last.
1. Love Wins
In the end, Luann disappointed us all, though no one should really be surprised. Let's just say she's very understanding when it comes to being unfaithful.
"I'm not going to let a kiss ruin the rest of my life,” said Lu before asking the age old question: "Who doesn’t make mistakes?"
After Michael Phelps took home his 23rd gold medal at the Rio Olympics, the star swimmer decided to take on a new challenge: co-hosting an episode of America's Got Talent.
On Wednesday's live results show, host Nick Cannon introduced the Olympic record setter at the start of the show, and Phelps was meant with boisterous applause and the familiar chant of "U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!"
Decked out in a short-sleeved, button-down shirt and a close cut hairstyle, the incomparable athlete could not have looked more like a new dad, and he had the beaming smile to match as his fiancée, Nicole Johnson, and their 3-month-old son, Boomer, cheered him on from the audience, just like they had during the Rio Games.
Before kicking off with the eliminations, Cannon had to ask Phelps a few questions about his historic wins during the last Olympic games of his career, and what it felt like when he won his 23rd gold.
"At that moment is when all the emotions came out," Phelps recounted. "I was finally happy with everything I did in my career, and I was able to retire how I wanted to."
"More importantly, I had our first child in the stands, watching the race," he added, as the cameras cut to Johnson cradling an adorably confused-looking Boomer in the audience as the crowd cheered.
"He wasn't always awake," Phelps joked. "But it's a completely different experience being able to look up and see your baby boy up there after a race."
Cannon also asked Phelps what has driven him over the years to work as hard as he has to achieve his record-shattering success.
"I hate to lose, number one," the 31-year-old icon said, smiling. "My biggest thing is, I started goal setting when I was nine years old, and I literally dreamt for the stars and dreamt for the biggest possible thing I could think of: I wanted to change the sport of swimming and I wanted to do something nobody had ever done before."
With 23 golds, three silvers and two bronzes over five Summer Olympic Games, Phelps certainly managed to make that dream a reality.
For more on Phelps' epic Olympic performance and his experiences as a first-time father, check out the video below.
Luann de Lesseps is moving on. The Countess has dealt with discussion of her fiancé, Tom D’Agostino Jr., all season long on The Real Housewives of New York. On Wednesday night’s finale, she was given the news that he’d kissed another woman at a hotel bar just days after proposing. But, she didn’t break things off – she told ET why in an exclusive interview at her home in the Hamptons.
“We love each other,” she says. “I always say if you can't forgive the people you love, then who can you forgive? … I'm not going to let a silly kiss ruin the rest of our lives.” De Lesseps says the kiss “of course” made her question her relationship at first, but that speaking to D’Agostino made her see things differently. “If he was trying to hide something would he really be in public? In the middle of the Regency Hotel? Kissing somebody?” she says. “I think he was just being stupid, and people make mistakes.”
The RHONY star says the key to moving on was knowing her fiancé regretted his actions. “I think the key is to know and believe that someone is truly remorseful and somebody truly made a mistake, that there was no premeditation,” she says. “I think it was not premeditated --  I think it was a silly move and something that he feels really terrible about, and that meant really nothing to him.”
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Luann de Lesseps' Glamorous Hamptons Home!
The two are currently planning their wedding for this New Year’s Eve, which is D’Agostino’s 50th birthday. De Lesseps says she knows they’ll be together for the rest of their lives, and that today, she trusts him “totally.” She’s looking at wedding dresses, preparing to send out invitations and finalizing the guest list. De Lesseps says co-star Sonja Morgan will definitely get an invite, but the other ladies might or might not.
“I’m still working on my guest list,” she says. “This is the most exciting time of my life, getting married again after all this time. I am thrilled. I am not going to let what has happened on the show ruin the most exciting time of my life.”
EXCLUSIVE: Bethenny Frankel On Telling Luann de Lesseps About Her Fiance's Kiss: 'I Wouldn't Do It Again'
De Lesseps will be confronted with her relationship again on the show’s reunion specials; part one premieres Aug. 31 on Bravo. The reunion taping was explosive, but de Lesseps says she found "redemption" in it.  "You get to really tell your side of the story," she says. "I personally like it because there's redemption. There's starting over."
To find out why the RHONY reunion might mean Bethenny Frankel won’t return for another season, watch the video below.
Luann de Lesseps is moving on. The Countess has dealt with discussion of her fiancé, Tom D’Agostino Jr., all season long on The Real Housewives of New York. On Wednesday night’s finale, she was given the news that he’d kissed another woman at a hotel bar just days after proposing. But, she didn’t break things off – she told ET why in an exclusive interview at her home in the Hamptons.
“We love each other,” she says. “I always say if you can't forgive the people you love, then who can you forgive? … I'm not going to let a silly kiss ruin the rest of our lives.” De Lesseps says the kiss “of course” made her question her relationship at first, but that speaking to D’Agostino made her see things differently. “If he was trying to hide something would he really be in public? In the middle of the Regency Hotel? Kissing somebody?” she says. “I think he was just being stupid, and people make mistakes.”
The RHONY star says the key to moving on was knowing her fiancé regretted his actions. “I think the key is to know and believe that someone is truly remorseful and somebody truly made a mistake, that there was no premeditation,” she says. “I think it was not premeditated --  I think it was a silly move and something that he feels really terrible about, and that meant really nothing to him.”
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Luann de Lesseps' Glamorous Hamptons Home!
The two are currently planning their wedding for this New Year’s Eve, which is D’Agostino’s 50th birthday. De Lesseps says she knows they’ll be together for the rest of their lives, and that today, she trusts him “totally.” She’s looking at wedding dresses, preparing to send out invitations and finalizing the guest list. De Lesseps says co-star Sonja Morgan will definitely get an invite, but the other ladies might or might not.
“I’m still working on my guest list,” she says. “This is the most exciting time of my life, getting married again after all this time. I am thrilled. I am not going to let what has happened on the show ruin the most exciting time of my life.”
EXCLUSIVE: Bethenny Frankel On Telling Luann de Lesseps About Her Fiance's Kiss: 'I Wouldn't Do It Again'
De Lesseps will be confronted with her relationship again on the show’s reunion specials; part one premieres Aug. 31 on Bravo. The reunion taping was explosive, but de Lesseps says she found "redemption" in it.  "You get to really tell your side of the story," she says. "I personally like it because there's redemption. There's starting over."
To find out why the RHONY reunion might mean Bethenny Frankel won’t return for another season, watch the video below.
Terminally ill Star Wars fan Neil Hanvey saw his dying wish come true in the form of an early screening of Rogue One: A Star Wars Story.
Hanvey, who died on Monday at the age of 36 after a three-year battle with cancer, was given the chance to watch the film on Saturday, months before its December release, at St. Michael's Hospice in Herefordshire, England.
Hanvey's family started a social media movement in April, after he was given eight months to live, to get the word out about his final wish. The campaign picked up speed after numerous Star Wars icons joined in on the cause, tweeting with the hashtag "#RogueOneWish."
Hanvey's wife, Andrea, thanked everyone who participated in the campaign, sharing, "We would also like to thank the tens of thousands of people who supported the #RogueOneWish campaign.
"All the messages of love during the past week have given us a great deal of comfort during a very difficult time," she said in a statement to St. Michael's.
The hospice itself shared its thanks with "everyone who supported the #RogueOneWish campaign," in a message posted to Facebook.
"The director of Rogue One, Gareth Edwards, did all he could to make Saturday a very special day for Neil," the message continued. "Neil, his family and everyone at St Michael's Hospice would like to say thank you to Disney, Lucasfilm and especially Gareth Edwards."
PHOTOS: Celebs Give Back
In 2015, Star Wars granted another terminally ill fan, Daniel Fleetwood, a chance to see The Force Awakens before it hit screens. Check out the video below to for more on the uplifting story of a final wish coming true.
Rogue One: A Star Wars Story hits theaters Dec. 16.
Neil Patrick Harris’ 5-year-old twins continue to be more cultured than our adult selves.
The 43-year-old actor and his husband, David Burtka, recently joined their polite and well-dressed children for tea time, documenting the whole thing on Instagram.
"Tea for 2 and 2 plus 2," Burtka captioned the sweet collage of tea time pics, showing Gideon carefully sipping his cup of tea, and Harper rocking some glittery pink flats.
But tea time isn't the only hobby of Harris and Burtka's adorable children -- they also enjoy flower arranging!
"Thanks @theemptyvase and @michaelserrato for providing brilliant botanical fun for the family," Harris captioned a shot of his family with their floral arrangements. "The kids now think they can arrange anything."
… and meditation.
But sometimes Gideon and Harper like to entertain their parents by doing normal kids things too.
It seems Harris and Burtka's twins have also become expert chefs, surprising the How I Met Your Mother star with breakfast in bed during winter storm Jonas.
See more in the video below.
50 Cent was livid when he saw his manhood made the final cut on the fourth episode of Power this season, but he wasn't the only one bothered by it.
During an appearance on Jimmy Kimmel Live! on Tuesday, the actor and executive producer revealed that the full-frontal nude scene led to some awkward texts from his family members.
"My aunt sees the show, and she's like, 'I'm traumatized!'" he said. "She texted me like, 'What the f**k? Why didn't you tell me?'"
According to 50 Cent, he didn’t realize how explicit the scene was going to be until it was too late. As a matter of fact, the rapper says he had it out with fellow executive producer, Courtney Kemp, after he saw the episode.
"Courtney, she's like the writer and showrunner of the show and she said, 'I didn't want to show it to you in the beginning, because I didn't think you needed to see it at that point,'" 50 Cent recalled. "And she said, 'You're just going to have to take one for the team. I would do it, but I just don't have one.'"
PHOTOS: Your Favorite TV, Movie and Music Reunions
Prior to his Jimmy Kimmel interview, 50 Cent took to Instagram to air his dirty laundry.
"Man, I just saw episode four of Power," he wrote. "Courtney I'm a kill you. This is not funny. I think I just saw my ... in a scene. What the f**k Courtney. Call my phone NOW!"
Power airs on Starz.
U.S. Olympic swimmer Jimmy Feigen is breaking his silence on the gas station vandalism dispute that took place during the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on Aug. 14 -- alongside fellow swimmers Ryan Lochte, Gunnar Bentz and Jack Conger -- and his subsequent detainment by Brazilian authorities.
Feigen issued an apology for the "serious distractions from the Olympics, Rio de Janeiro, and Team USA" that the incident caused.
"It was never my intent to draw attention away from the tradition of athletic competition and the symbolic cooperation of countries participating in the Olympic games," Feigen said in a statement released by his legal representatives. "I want to thank the IOC and the people of Rio de Janeiro for their hospitality in hosting these games. I have nothing but respect for the city in undertaking the massive responsibility of hosting the Olympics and I feel their performance was exemplary."
MORE: 2016 Rio Olympics: The 9 Biggest and Most Scandalous Moments
The 26-year-old gold medalist, who was the last of the four swimmers involved to address the incident, additionally apologized for "the delay in this statement," explaining that he didn't arrive back home until Aug. 21.
Lochte originally claimed that he and his three teammates were coming home after a night of partying when their taxi was pulled over by men pretending to be Rio police. He said that one of the robbers pointed a gun at his forehead and stole their money.
Later, Lochte altered his story, saying that the group wasn't pulled over but instead, they were robbed at a gas station after having the taxi pull over so they could use the restroom.
Rio police officials claim that the swimmers vandalized the bathroom at the gas station and urinated on the building. According to their report, two gas station security guards were the ones who pointed their gun at the swimmers, demanding monetary payment for the damages.
In his statement, Feigen admitted to urinating in the grass behind the station as the door to the bathroom was locked, and recounted Lochte pulling a poster out of a metal frame off a wall. These were facts he omitted in his official report to the Rio police.
"I realize that I made a mistake by omitting these facts," he wrote. "I was trying to protect my teammates and for this I apologize."
Feigen says he was later informed that authorities were investigating their report, and was asked to provide a follow-up statement, "I provided the statement at the police station, which included the previous omissions," he explained.
The swimmer says he was asked to stay in the country and to give up his passport, adding, "I voluntarily provided my passport to the police and waited while the matter was investigated."
"I was eventually given two options. Option one was to remain in Brazil while the police continued the investigation," Feigen recounted. "This process was estimated to take at least a month and I would be required to remain in Brazil."
"Option two was pay a fine of [$31,250] for the return of my passport and perform fifteen days of community service," he continued. "I called my American attorneys to discuss what to do. We decided that this amount was unreasonable and due to safety concerns, this offer was also rejected. The prosecutor’s response was to increase the fine to [$46,875]."
Eventually, Feigen said that "all parties agreed to a [$10,800] fine," which he was required to pay within three days. Contacting his family and legal counsel in America, he was able to "satisfy the payment of the fine the next day," at which point his passport was returned, and he was allowed to fly home.
"I am so sorry for the drama this has caused in everyone’s lives," Feigen concluded. "I am very thankful to be home in the United States with my family and that this ordeal has come to an end."
Lochte, who was the first to go public with the story of being robbed at gunpoint, took to Instagram on Friday morning to issue an apology.
"I want to apologize for my behavior last weekend," the 31-year-old swimmer wrote. "For not being more careful and candid in how I described the events of that early morning and for my role in taking away from the many athletes fulfilling their dreams of participating in the Olympics." Check out the video below to hear more about the Olympian's mea culpa.
On Wednesday night’s Real Housewives of New York finale, Luann de Lesseps learned her fiancé, Tom D’Agostino, Jr., had kissed another woman in a hotel bar just days after proposing to her. It was an emotional episode to say the least, but it also showed de Lesseps telling cameras she was staying with D’Agostino after his indiscretion. Her friend and co-star Ramona Singer tells ET Luann forgave too much too fast.
“I think she should have given him the cold shoulder longer than one night,” she says. “In fact, I don't think she even gave him the cold shoulder one night.” Singer was a major part of de Lesseps and D’Agostino’s storyline this season; both she and Sonja Morgan said they’d been romantically involved with D’Agostino in the past, and claimed he wasn’t being honest with de Lesseps about the nature of the relationships.
EXCLUSIVE: Inside Luann de Lesseps’ Stunning Hamptons Home
“I said this to Luann on the reunion… this is with anybody in life…  if someone can't tell the truth, that's a red flag,” she says. “If he couldn't tell the truth about his relationships with Sonya and me, that's a red flag and that makes me nervous. That makes me nervous for Luann... I just find it beyond baffling that he couldn't tell the truth about his relationships.”
Singer says D’Agostino lied to de Lesseps about how many times he went out on dates with Singer – and she just doesn’t understand why. She says she had discussions with de Lesseps during the season that viewers didn’t see. “I said to Luann, ‘I want you to know, they are asking me the question when I get into the interview chair, like, how many times did you date Tom?’” she says. “I said, ‘I want you to know I said six times,’ and she said, ‘Why did you lie? It was only once.’”
“I am not lying,” she continues. “He lied to her and I don't understand why. There is no reason to lie.”
De Lesseps is standing by her man. “I'm not going to let a silly kiss ruin the rest of our lives,” she tells ET. “This is the most exciting time of my life, getting married again after all this time. I am thrilled. I am not going to let what has happened on the show ruin the most exciting time of my life.”
We’ll see more drama go down during the RHONY reunion specials; part one premieres August 31 on Bravo. To hear why the reunion might mean Bethenny Frankel won’t be returning to the show, watch the video below!
Amanda Bynes is back on Twitter!
After a six month absence, the former actress made her triumphant return to the social media site on Wednesday, giving her fans an update on what’s been occupying all her attention -- school!
"Hi everybody! I haven't tweeted in a long time and I want to say hi! I've been really busy at FIDM, and I just finished my midterms," read the first tweet from Bynes, who first enrolled at the Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising in 2014 and returned to her studies last fall. 
"I am really loving school and I feel that I am learning a lot," she tweeted moments later. "I enjoy all of my classes and my teachers are excellent."
LOOK: Amanda Bynes Resurfaces on Social Media With Smiling Selfie, Wishes Fans 'Happy Holidays'
The She's the Man star then offered up an explanation for her Twitter disappearance. "I'm really appreciative of all that FIDM is giving me. I've been in school learning about the fashion business so I don't have time to tweet," she said.
It's not unusual for Bynes to slip in and out of social media. The Easy A actress last tweeted in February, showing off a platinum blonde shoulder-length haircut.
See more in the video below.
Talk about a combination of dangerously talented women!
Ariana Grande will take the stage with Nicki Minaj at the 2016 VMAs to perform their collaboration, "Side by Side," off of the 22-year-old singer's most recent album, Dangerous Woman MTV announced on Wednesday.
A source told ET that the two would perform together, adding that the epic duet would showcase Grande "as we've never seen her."
MORE: 8 VMA 2016 Rumors We Hope Are True: From Beyonce Performing to Ariana Grande as 'We've Never Seen Her'
"When you take the stage at the VMAs you step into another world," Grande says in a promo video for the show. "It's not just a performance, it's a statement."
Meanwhile, the network also revealed some of the stars who will be presenting during the show, including Kim Kardashian West, Sean "Diddy" Combs, Alicia Keys, Ansel Elgort, Bebe Rexha, Fifth Harmony, Jaden Smith, Shameik Moore and Tove Lo.
MORE: Beyonce and Adele Dominate the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Nominations -- See the Full List
Key & Peele partners Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele will also appear during the show, MTV announced, as well as DJ Khaled, outgoing SNL castmember Jay Pharoah, and Girl Code star Nicole Byer. The latter three will provide most of the commentary for the awards.
MTV previously announced that Britney Spears will return for her first VMA performance in nine years to sing her latest hit, "Make Me…"
Now, get yourself hyped up for Grande and Minaj's sure-to-be-incredible performance by checking out the video below of the "Dangerous Woman" singer absolutely nailing a cover of Whitney Houston.
The 2016 MTV Video Music Awards air live from Madison Square Garden in NYC on Sunday at 9 p.m. ET/PT.
A Dancing With the Stars favorite could be headed back to the dance floor.
A source spotted Maksim Chmerkovskiy, who is expecting his first child with fiancee Peta Murgatroyd, at a season 23 cast photo shoot for ABC’s reality competition series on Wednesday.

Chmerkovskiy’s younger brother, Val, is one of the nine pros already announced for the new season, which also include Emma Slater, Witney Carson, Sharna Burgess, Artem Chigvintsev, Lindsay Arnold, Sasha Farber, Gleb Savchenko and Allison Holker.
In 2014, fresh off his big DWTS win, Chmerkovskiy told ET he likely wouldn’t be returning to the show.

A year later, Chmerkovskiy was even more definite in his answer when approached about his DWTS future, saying in a 2015 interview he’s “definitely not” coming back to the show that made him famous.
“You have to walk away when the time is right, and the time was right,” he told Glamour at the time. “I think the change of guard is necessary. Like a plant that in order to improve growth, you have to pull branches. It’s the same thing. Every now and again, everything needs to be refreshed.”

Fans won’t get the official word until the full cast is revealed on Aug. 30.
Dancing With the Stars premieres Monday, Sept. 12 at 8 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
Millions of Prince fans will soon get the chance to tour his iconic Paisley Park estate.
The Purple One's 65,000-square-foot private mansion and production complex in Chanhassen, Minnesota, is set to become a museum opening for daily tours this fall, the late singer’s estate announced on Wednesday.
EXCLUSIVE: Prince's Ex-Wife Manuela Testolini Is Building a School in His Memory: 'I Will Always Love Him'
"Opening Paisley Park is something that Prince always wanted to do and was actively working on," Prince's sister, Tyka Nelson, said in statement. "Only a few hundred people have had the rare opportunity to tour the estate during his lifetime. Now, fans from around the world will be able to experience Prince's world for the first time as we open the doors to this incredible place."
A business plan and application for development review for the museum has been submitted to the City of Chanhassen. The documents request the assistance of the operational expertise of an experienced property management team, though the estate will maintain ownership of the property.
"The Estate is working with the family to form an advisory council who will provide valuable input on the entire experience," said Craig Ordal, president of Bremer Trust, the Minnesota bank acting as special administrator of Prince's estate.
The management crew at Elvis' Graceland estate will be providing "development management, and oversight of all aspects of the museum at Paisley Park," along with giving the initial funds for capital improvement and operating costs.
READ: Man Who Found Prince Dead Speaks Out on the 'Chaos and Sadness' of His Death
The tours will run 70 minutes, with a maximum guest stay of two hours during peak times, and the estate will have 24/7 security.
Visitors will be taken through Paisley Park's extensive main floor, as well as recording and mixing studios where Prince laid down some of his greatest hits, video editing suites, rehearsal rooms, and a massive soundstage that the icon used to rehearse for tours and hold private concerts.
Thousands of Prince artifacts will also be featured on the tour, including concert memorabilia, automobiles and motorcycles, giving fans a first-hand view of what it was like for Prince to create, perform, and live inside his private sanctuary.
"The new Paisley Park museum will offer fans a unique experience, an exhibition like no other, as Prince would have wanted it," Prince's siblings added in a joint statement. "Most important, the museum will display Prince's genius, honor his legacy, and carry forward his strong sense of family and community."
MORE: Looking Back At Prince's Biggest Love Affairs
Tours are set to begin on Oct. 6. with tickets priced at $38.50 for standard entry. A VIP experience will be offered to smaller groups at a price of $100 or more. Tickets will go on sale via OfficialPaisleyPark.com on Friday, Aug. 26 at 2 p.m. CT.
In addition to the museum opening, the life of Prince will be celebrated at a tribute concert on Oct. 13 at U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis.
The music legend died in April from an accidental opioid overdose at age 57. Go inside Prince's final days in the video below.
Ciara is 1-2-stepping over to Atlantic City for her next gig!
The 30-year-old singer has been confirmed as a judge for the upcoming Miss America Pageant, joining Olympic gymnast Gabby Douglas.
In addition to Douglas, Ciara will be joining actresses Sara Foster and Laura Marano, entrepreneur and Shark Tank star Mark Cuban and singer Cole Swindell at the judging table.
Chris Harrison will also return to host the 96th annual Miss America pageant, with ESPN anchor Sage Steele joining him on stage.
It's been a big summer for both Douglas and Ciara.
While Douglas spent this month claiming gold with Team USA at the 2016 Rio Olympics, Ciara has spent her time enjoying life as a newlywed.
The "Body Party" singer wed NFL quarterback Russell Wilson in a lavish ceremony at Peckforton Castle in Cheshire, England on July 6. 
Ciara has since shared tons of pics from both the gorgeous wedding and her Vegas bachelorette party on Instagram, but it's her new husband who can't stop gushing about married life!
"We had about 100-plus people there at the wedding -- really close friends and family," he told ET last month. "They understand it's about love and keeping each other close and keeping it real tight knit, so that was easy to do for the most part."
"We'll take it one at a time," Wilson added, on whether he and Ciara are thinking about having kids soon. The singer already has one son, 2-year-old Future Zahir, with her ex, rapper Future. "Ultimately, it's just about spending quality time with each other. We're excited."
The 2017 Miss America Competition airs live from Atlantic City’s Boardwalk Hall on Sunday, Sept. 11 at 9:00 p.m. ET/PT on ABC.
See more of what Wilson had to say in the video below.
The word "adorable" might not be the first adjective that usually comes to mind in describing real-life Hercules, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, but in this case, it totally applies.
The action star posted a video of himself playing with his 8-month-old baby girl, Jasmine, on Tuesday that will make your heart melt.
"Finally my big head is used for more than just a place to hang my hat," Johnson wrote. "The joys of being home w/my ohana and playin' one of our fav games -- slap Daddy's head 'til I can see his big scary face."
In the video, Jasmine drums on her 44-year-old father's head in bed while music plays behind them.
"Song playing in the background is 'O Tiare' (Justin Young). A song I started singing to her every day since she was one week old," Johnson explained. "Samoan lyrics are beautiful, 'La alofa le Atua, ma tausi ia te 'oe...' which translates to 'May God take loving care of you.' When Jasmine learns to talk, I'm sure she'll ask me to please stop singing. I must now go do something very manly and bad ass to counterbalance this post."
Johnson and his girlfriend, Lauren Hashian, welcomed their daughter in December. Johnson also has a teenage daughter, Simone, from his marriage to Dany Garcia.
Previously, Johnson shared a photo of his toddler being mesmerized by his tattoos.
"After we feed her, Jasmine just loves looking at Daddy's tattoos," he wrote. "I think it helps her digest."
The VMAs almost always bring big moments!
Last year alone, MTV's annual best-in-music-videos awards show featured Miley Cyrus hosting with a variety of outrageous outfits, while Nicki Minaj threw epic shade with her "Miley, what's good"-heard-round-the-world acceptance speech, and Kanye West announced his 2020 presidential run (after THEN-BFF TAYLOR SWIFT introduced the rapper for his Video Vanguard Award!).
That's a pretty incredible rundown that the 2016 Video Music Awards will be trying to top, and there has been no shortage of rumblings, reports, and things we've learned about how MTV plans to do so.
Here are eight VMAZING rumors we really hope pan out at this year's show.
MORE: Beyonce and Adele Dominate the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards Nominations -- See the Full List
1. Beyonce will perform.
Multiple sources tell ET that the #BeyMAs are happening, and MTV has been teasing the "Formation" singer's stunning 2003 performance on Twitter.
There has -- as of yet -- been no officially announced Prince or David Bowie remembrance, leading some to believe that Queen Bey could deliver an epic tribute performance, but it's anyone's guess what the pop diva who can do anything will do.
However, it's safe to say we should be expecting something #FLAWLESS.
PICS: The Craziest MTV VMA Looks Ever
Oh, and we should mention that Beyonce is also up for a record 11 awards going into the night.
2. Ariana Grande 'as we've never seen her.'
A source tells ET that Ariana Grande is taking the stage with Nicki Minaj for an epic performance that will showcase the "Dangerous Woman" singer "as we've never seen her."
It's already been quite a year for Grande, who has recovered from her 2015 "donut fiasco" growing pains by releasing a pretty amazing album, and showing off her basically out-of-this-world vocal abilities. And who better to team up with for a big statement performance than Minaj -- 2015's reigning VMA queen!
MORE: Rihanna to Receive Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at MTV Video Music Awards
3. Frank Ocean and Barbra Streisand to present Video Vanguard Award.
A source tells ET that fresh off his innovative (if verrry delayed!) Blonde album release, Frank Ocean  and singing legend Barbra Streisand will team up to bestow one of the show's highest honors -- the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award  -- upon Rihanna. Past recipients include Kanye West, Beyonce, Justin Timberlake and Britney Spears.
Oh, by the way....
4. Rihanna to perform multiple times, and switch the style up.
What's better than RiRi? More RiRi!
In addition to receiving the Vanguard Award, multiple sources tell ET that the Anti singer will perform four -- count 'em, four! -- times during the VMAs, and will show off a number of her impressively eclectic musical styles.
MORE: Britney Spears to Perform at MTV Video Music Awards for First Time in 9 Years – and Celebrates With a Python!
5. The 'Final Five' bring their perfect floor routine to the red carpet!
Just because the Rio Games are over doesn't mean we have to say goodbye to our favorite Olympic team!
The U.S. women's gymnastics team champions -- Simone Biles, Aly Raisman, Gabby Douglas, Madison Kocian and Laurie Hernandez, told ET that they will be attending the big show, hopefully with their bevy of medals in tow!
6. Yeezy's back.
Even before his unreal Video Vanguard acceptance speech in 2015, Kanye West has had a long and storied history with the VMAs, and a source tells ET he will make the trip again this year, where he is nominated for "Video of the Year" for his highly controversial "Famous" video.
There's also a lot of fodder for the outspoken artist to make a statement on this year, from his rekindled feud with Taylor Swift, to his recent series of tweets about how Ocean's Blonde album hasn't yet gotten the respect it deserves from radio stations.
Love him or hate him, the 39-year-old rapper is never shy about expressing his beliefs, and for that reason, it doesn't even really feel like the VMAs could be the VMAs without West!
7. Hello, Adele!
Even discounting the fact that Adele is a welcome addition to any event always, the 25 singer trails only Beyonce with eight nominations this year, and doesn't have any dates scheduled Sunday night on her 2016 tour.
One would hope the British star will not only be in attendance, but will be bringing us to tears as she very easily does!
MORE: 22 Questions We Have After Watching the 2015 MTV VMAs
8. Lady Gaga opening the show with new single?
OK.... this one's admittedly a little shaky.
There has been a supposed "production note" photo circulating on Twitter that Lady Gaga will be opening the show, and debuting a new song allegedly titled "Chaos Angel."
Now, a source tells ET the photo is very fake, and we haven't heard anything about a Gaga performance. Which could mean it's not happening OR it's being kept very under wraps.
MORE: Britney Spears Auctioning VMA Outfit to Raise Money for Louisiana Flood Victims
That being said, we really, really WANT this rumor to be true, if only because we've really gone long enough without new Gaga music in our lives.
Of course, to see what really happens -- planned, or otherwise -- we'll have to tune in when the MTV VMAs air Sunday Aug. 28 at 9/8c from Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Oh baby, baby… Britney Spears is getting the movie treatment.

Filming on Britney is set to begin in Vancouver on September to air on Lifetime in 2017. The Hollywood Reporter first reported the news.
The upcoming two-hour film will span Spears’ early days in Kentwood, Louisiana, her high-profile romance with Justin Timberlake and her struggles following her parents’ divorce, as well as her short-lived marriages to Jason Alexander and Kevin Federline. It will also cover Spears’ custody battle over her young sons and her eventual resurrection to pop stardom.

Frankly, we can’t wait to see what’s in store for Britney. So far, no word from Timberlake or Federline on social media, but a rep for Spears tells ET, "Britney Spears will not be contributing in any way, shape or form to the Lifetime biopic nor does it have her blessing."
The news comes just days before Spears’ new studio album, Glory, hits stores on Friday and her Carpool Karaoke segment airs on Thursday’s The Late Late Show. She is also slated to perform on the MTV Video Music Awards on Sunday in New York City.

Looks like Jana Kramer is back to being single.
The "Circles" singer and her husband, Mike Caussin, have separated, ET has learned.
A source close to the couple exclusively confirmed the news to ET on Wednesday, revealing that Caussin is currently being treated in a rehabilitation center for undisclosed reasons.
Kramer, who is currently on tour and promoting her latest album, Thirty One, has been "trying to put on a brave face and do what's best for her daughter," a close friend of Kramer's says, adding, "she's been devastated by this."
And a brave face she's been putting on, indeed! Earlier today, Kramer took to Snapchat to share her excitement over her recent trip to Los Angeles, where she was traveling for her scheduled guest appearance on Chelsea Handler's Netflix show.
PHOTOS: Biggest Celebrity Breakups of 2016
"I'm so excited, yay!" Kramer said in one of the videos. "Getting ready for the Chelsea Handler show, it's going to be so much fun."
While it appears Kramer has still been wearing her wedding band, she hasn't posted any photos of Caussin on social media in over a month. Their last photo together was this snap, taken seven weeks ago:
Kramer, 32, and Caussin, 29, started dating in August 2014, and the former NFL tight end proposed four months later. On May 22, 2015, the two said "I do." They welcomed daughter Jolie Rae in January.
ET caught up with Kramer at the Academy of Country Music Awards in April, her first red carpet appearance since giving birth to baby Jolie, where she gushed over Caussin's parenting skills and getting her body back in shape.
"Husband is amazing on diaper duty -- he's an absolute sweetheart, he's extremely hands-on, and I feel confident leaving and him knowing exactly what to do," she shared. "Most guys are like, 'I don't know what to do,' but he's super hands-on and absolutely amazing."
"But I've been working out a bunch and just trying to be confident and be like, 'You know what, I'm a mom and I'm embracing the new me!'" she added. Hear more in the video below.
Jon Gosselin is firing back.
The former reality star is sounding off after his ex-wife, Kate Plus 8 star Kate Gosselin, revealed in a tell-all interview that their 12-year-old son, Collin, was away getting help for “special needs.” His 15-year-old twin daughters, Mady and Cara, also spoke ill of their estranged father, questioning his intentions.

In a new interview with People, Kate explains why she enrolled Collin in a program away from home to help cope with his “special needs.”
“Collin has special needs,” the 41-year-old reality star said. “[There’s] a fairly fluid diagnosis of what those needs are, but he needs to learn certain strategies to help him deal with things. This has been a struggle we’ve had for a very long time, and it’s one I’ve dealt with on my own.”
“I’ve felt very alone in this,” Kate added. “By the same token, it’s not something that has only impacted me or him -- our entire family has been impacted.”

“He makes it seem like we’re being kept from him, which is insane,” Mady said, later referencing Jon’s ET sit-down from earlier this month. “He should maybe spend some time thinking about why we don’t want to see him, and maybe realize that if he ever does want a relationship with us, talking about us on TV is not the way to make that happen.”
“He doesn’t even know us,” Mady added. “How can he dare to talk about us?”

“It felt like she was segregating me from him,” Jon said, claiming that he hasn’t seen all eight of his kids together in “three to four years.” “I haven’t seen him for a really long time.”
“Everybody used to come to my house,” he continued. “It was great, and then Madelyn and Cara just stopped coming, around 12-13 [years old]. I didn’t question it. I was just like, ‘Hey, do what you want. Be with your friends,’ and then it just became, ‘They’re not coming.’”
Despite the hateful hack of her website and attack on her privacy, Leslie Jones has a lot of love on her side.
Hollywood is speaking out after the hacking on Wednesday revealed the Ghostbusters star's personal identification as well as multiple nude photos of what appears to be the comedian, expressing their outrage and disappointment over the situation. 
Octavia Spencer was quick to chime in on the hack, calling out the "rampant racism percolating in society."
"This @Lesdoggg attack is troubling. The rampant racism percolating in society right now is shameful and sad. She made a movie, that's it!" she wrote. "Karma always finds a way to right a wrong. Don't hate someone b/c of their ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion or gender #KarmaWins."
Jones' Ghostbusters director, Paul Feig, expressed similar sentiments. "What's happening to @Lesdoggg is an absolute outrage," he tweeted. "Alt right, haters, trolls, 'comedians,' whoever the f**k you all are, you're just sad."
Many others followed suit.
This isn't the first time celebs have rallied around the 48-year-old actress. Jones was a target of vicious, racist harassment from online trolls just last month, which forced her to delete her account on Twitter. The Saturday Night Live star returned to the social media site after receiving an outpouring of support from celebs like Feig, Dan Aykroyd, and Chrissy Teigen.
"Unfortunately I'm used to the insults," Jones told Seth Meyers during an appearance on Late Night last month. "But what scared me was the injustice of a gang of people jumping against you for such a sick cause… Like, it's so gross and mean and unnecessary."
See more on Jones' Twitter harassment in the video below.
Jennifer Lopez is reportedly back on the market!
The "Ain't Your Mama" singer and her longtime boyfriend, Beau Casper Smart, have called it quits, according to People.
A source told the outlet that Lopez, 47, and Smart, 29, have not been together for a few weeks, but "it wasn't anything dramatic."
"They were on good terms -- it just came to a natural end," the source added. "They will remain friends and they see each other, but they are not together. It was very amiable."
The choreographer recently hung out with Lopez backstage at her All I Have show at Planet Hollywood Resort & Casino in Las Vegas, where the pop diva's ex-husband, Marc Anthony, and his girlfriend, Shannon de Lima, were also in attendance.  Earlier this week, however, Smart announced via Instagram that he was going to be taking a break from social media.
"New experiment," he wrote. "Gonna try to live old school for a little while. Going back to a time before social media. Gonna focus on personal connections over a type and text existence."
Meanwhile, Lopez has returned to New York City to film Shades of Blue. She was photographed back on set on Wednesday, rocking high-waisted pants and a navy blue blazer over a button-down blouse.
The two first sparked romance rumors in late 2011. While they played coy at first, they eventually went public with their relationship nearly a year later. They called it quits in June 2014, but reunited again in January 2015.
During her guest appearance on the Wendy Williams Show in March, Lopez explained that her on-again, off-again relationship with Smart was "not that dramatic."
"We broke up for a little bit," she explained. "We've done that a couple of times. It's like, bye, then we get back together and then, hi."
That same month, ET caught up with Smart at the premiere of his new film, The Perfect Match, where he explained how he and Lopez make their relationship work.
"That's what we do, man. She supports me, I support her," Smart said. "That's love."
ET reached out to reps for both Lopez and Smart. Lopez's rep had no comment.
Sofia Richie and Justin Bieber are together again.
The pair was spotted at RAWkin' Juice in Burbank, California, on Tuesday afternoon. An eyewitness at the juice bar tells ET that Bieber and Richie definitely acted like a couple when they stopped by around 4:30 p.m.

However, Bieber did not attend Richie's birthday dinner with friends at Koi restaurant.  Wearing a black crop top, colorful Adidas pants, and a choker, Richie playfully acknowledged paparazzi, flipping them the bird with a huge smile on her face.
Later that night, she kept the festivities going with a private party at celeb hot spot 1 Oak. Richie Instagrammed videos from her lavish bash, and although she complained earlier on Snapchat about having a rough start to her milestone birthday, it looks like she definitely had a blast. There was no sign of Richie's apparent illness, as she noted that she was "so excited" for the celebration.
"Thank you to everyone who came out last night and made my birthday something special," Richie wrote. "It means the world to have people who will go out of their way to make someone feel special. I'll remember this night for the rest of my life, I love you guys."
Interestingly enough, she also gave a shout out to stylist Chloe Bartoli -- Scott Disick's ex, whom he was caught getting touchy-feely with in Monte Carlo last July while he was still in a relationship with Kourtney Kardashian. Scott and Kourtney broke up shortly after photos of him with Chloe went public.
"Ur my world," Richie wrote.
Of course, Richie also had an awesome cake to celebrate with, which was presented to her at 1 a.m. -- marking Richie's official birthday on Wednesday.
Check out the teen blushing as the crowd sang "Happy Birthday" to her.
Later, the birthday girl gave a sweet speech.
While Bieber and Richie were apparently pretty affectionate during their juice date, the 22-year-old "Cold Water" singer doesn't appear to want to settle down anytime soon. Bieber was spotted partying with model Bronte Blampied in London, England, on Friday night at trendy Tape nightclub.
Watch below:
Time to size up the competition. Gurl, you betta werk!
James Corden wants Hollywood to know that "unattractive or heavy people" have relationships like everybody else.
In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine, the Late Late Show host talks about being a bigger kid in his teenage years and what miffs him most about the entertainment industry. "I could never understand when I watch romantic comedies the notion that for some reason unattractive or heavy people don’t fall in love," Corden explains. "If they do, it’s in some odd, kooky, roundabout way -- and it’s not. It’s exactly the same. I met my wife, she barely owned a television and worked for Save the Children. We sat down one night and we fell in love and that was it."
Corden has become a household name since joining the CBS family last year, but as a teen, he had to work hard to make friends. "If you’re big at school, you’ve really got two choices," he explains. "You’re going to be a target. If you go to school and you’re me, you go, ‘Right, I’m just going to make myself a bigger target. My confidence, it will terrify them.’ That’s how I felt in school. Inside, you’re terrified. But if you’re a bit funny, if you’re quicker than them, they won’t circle back on you again."
The 38-year-old TV personality has become a viral sensation thanks to the Late Late Show's wildly popular segment, 'Carpool Karaoke.' "You’re getting in a car. The doors close. It’s the two of you. You’re going to put the music on. We’re going to sing our hearts out. What I say to everybody is, this is a safe place," he says of the segment's success. "The more you go for it in the songs, like you’re playing Madison Square Garden, the better it is. I have to meet them halfway with that. If I am at all timid in those moments, then they’re going to be like, ‘Wait. Hang on. What am I doing?'"
EXCLUSIVE: James Corden Reveals His Dream 'Carpool Karaoke' Guests
Corden even got the princess of pop, Britney Spears, in the car with him. Check it out:
Blake Lively's post-baby body may have impressed audiences, but the 28-year-old actress admits she wasn’t always confident.
The Shallows star opened up to News.com.au on Tuesday, where she credited "vanity" and "insecurity" for getting her in tip-top shark-fighting shape.
"The struggle is that I am doing a movie in a bikini eight months after having a baby, and there is a level of insecurity and vanity that comes with that," Lively, now pregnant with her and husband Ryan Reynolds' second child, revealed. "You don't want to be the person in the magazines that they are saying, 'Ugh, look at her,' rather than, 'Wow, look at her.'"
"That's a shame because there shouldn't be that negative 'ugh' after someone has a baby," she continued. "Your body is so beautiful. You couldn't walk a Victoria's Secret runway, but it's beautiful in a completely different and incredible way."
"I do wish I had the bravery to go out there and represent women as they actually look," Lively added.
This isn't the first time the actress has opened up about the pressures to bounce back after baby.
Earlier this month, Lively was quick to shut down praise of her incredible post-baby weight loss, arguing against comparing her body to the bodies of other new moms.
"It's so unfair though because [post-baby weight loss is] so celebrated," she told Australian morning show Sunrise. "And I think a woman's body after having a  baby is pretty amazing. You don't need to be Victoria's Secret-ready right away because you just did the most incredible miracle that life has to offer. You gave birth to a human being! I'd really like to see that celebrated."
See more in the video below.
The Los Angeles City Council declared Aug. 24 to be Kobe Bryant Day in honor of the two jersey numbers -- 8 and 24 -- he wore during his 20 years as a Los Angeles Laker.
"That unbreakable spirit that you have demonstrated since you were 17 years old in the city makes it easy on this 8/24, August 24, to declare Kobe Bryant Day in the City of Angels!" Mayor Eric Garcetti announced in front of a packed audience in City Council chambers on Wednesday.
PIC: Vanessa Bryant Wishes Husband Kobe a Happy 38th Birthday
Fans flooded City Hall for the event, chanting "Kobe" as the NBA legend arrived with his family and city leaders.
"I don't believe in my 10 years here at City Council there has been a more exciting day than today," Councilman Jose Huizar said, "as we welcome Kobe Bryant on Mamba Day in the city of Los Angeles."
The distinction was the perfect birthday present for Bryant, who turned 38 on Tuesday. Fans welcomed Bryant to the podium by singing "Happy Birthday."
Huizar added that Bryant should be admired not only for his unbelievable talent but also because he "has taught all of us in Los Angeles that this city has a fighting spirit."
Bryant, who wore the number 8 his first 10 seasons and 24 for the last 10, admitted that he never expected the honor.
"It's a very surreal experience having a day named after you," Bryant said. "To spend 20 years with the same team, the team that was my dream growing up as a kid, to spend my entire career wearing that golden armor has been a huge blessing and a huge honor."
Later, Bryant took to Instagram, posting, "It was MY honor to play here for 20 years. Much respect, LA."
The 6-foot-6-inch former shooting guard lead the Lakers to five championships, winning three trophies under the number 8 (2000-2002) and two under the number 24 (2009 and 2010).
Bryant ended his career third on the list of all-time scoring leaders with 33,643 points, behind Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (38,387) and Karl Malone (36,928), and was an 18-time All-Star. In his final game, he scored 60 points -- the most any other player in the NBA put up in a single game that season.
Jordan Rodgers' signature 'do is a hot topic among Bachelorette fans, and he knows it.
The 27-year-old former football player made his SEC Network debut on Tuesday, and had some fun backstage with his new co-workers. Rodgers' sports broadcasting gig has him working as a college football studio analyst, appearing alongside Super Bowl champ Anthony "Booger" McFarland and host Peter Burns.
In an amusing Instagram video Rodgers posted, Burns pokes fun at his super-styled coif.
"Why's it all about hair with this guy?" Burns cracks. "We get it, you have nice hair."
Rodgers later asks for more hairspray on his 'do, and takes back an earlier compliment he gave Burns.
"I mean, do I really like his hair? No, but it's my first day -- I want everyone to like me," he jokes.
Rodgers also poked fun at his Bachelorette past in an Instagram post about his exciting new job. "Fun day back in the SEC, much easier without 100k screaming fans and giant angry men trying to kill me...but only slightly," he wrote.
Meanwhile, Fletcher is super proud of her fiance. "Not only is he the most loving, kindhearted and selfless man... But also unbelievably hardworking and driven," she Instagrammed on Monday. "Congrats on your first week w/ the SEC Network bubbi! You deserve it."
Earlier this month, ESPN defended its decision to hire Rodgers after his stint on the Bachelorette, explaining that the network was interested in him before he appeared on the hit ABC dating show. Rodgers' hiring caused controversy among sports fans -- and fellow contestant Chad Johnson -- who objected that Rodgers was only hired because of his newfound reality fame.
"He didn't need the show to get our attention. In fact, I had a real concern with how he would be viewed by fans of the show and what it might mean for him down the line," Stephanie Druley, ESPN's senior vice president, told Sports Illustrated. "We waited until the show was a few weeks into its run before we made an offer."
Watch below:
Kourtney Kardashian is hesitant to even consider getting into a relationship with Scott Disick again.
In a promo for Sunday's Keeping Up With the Kardashians, the mother of three is deciding whether to attend Scott's 33rd birthday party in Las Vegas, Nevada.
"I'm just not sure if I wanna go. I mean, I'm so happy that Scott and I are getting along so well and that we're co-parenting," Kourtney explains. "But I think hanging out with Scott without the kids... Scott can just take any little thing and run with it and think that like we're getting back together tomorrow."
As for whether she's open to ever getting back together with her ex, the 37-year-old reality star admits, "Right now I can't even wrap my head around that idea, there's so much work that would be involved and I'm so not even there yet."
Kourtney did end up going to Scott's birthday party -- which took place in May -- with her sister, Khloe, and even took a private jet with her ex to the Sin City. An eyewitness at the party told ET that Scott and Kourtney -- who was wearing a sexy, bright green printed Versace dress -- were whispering to each other inside their booth, and that the birthday boy also exchanged a lot of laughs with Khloe.