
In her 1985 comic strip “Dykes to Watch Out For,” a cartoonist named Alison Bechdel popularized the concept of “The Bechdel Test,” intended to be used to evaluate works of fiction. To pass this test, she outlined, a movie or book or play must follow three simple rules: It must feature two women (with names), those women must speak to one another, and their discussion must revolve around something ― anything! ― besides a man. 
The Bechdel Test does not determine whether something like a film is good or bad, or even whether it is “feminist” or “not feminist.” Rather, it offers a basic barometer for judging whether a film portrays women as developed human beings. That’s all. 
In his 2017 essay “If You Like Art, Don’t Take the Bechdel Test,” a conservative film critic named Kyle Smith thought it best to explain why he, a man, thinks the 30-year-old test is, well, stupid.
And this is how he does it: Imagine, he suggests, film critics replaced references to the Bechdel Test in their reviews with references to a so-called “Cowboy Test,” which, instead of encouraging filmmakers to create developed women characters, encourages them to create a film that “contains cowboys.”
La La Land? Manchester by the Sea? Moonlight? All problematic,” Smith writes, “as these benighted films contain no cowboys. On the other hand, Cowboys and Aliens, Armageddon, and the Village People movie Can’t Stop the Music, each of which contains cowboy characters, would easily pass the Cowboy Test and receive a hearty blessing.
“Ah yes, cowboys, that underrepresented 50% of our population,” a reader tweeted in response.
Smith, whose Twitter bio reads “I’m sorry if you’re angry,” clearly basks in antagonizing his readers with especially inane and insulting comparisons, as well as criticizing a decades-old film term like it’s news.
In his recent article, he proceeds to list films that fail the Bechdel Test but are “good,” as well as films that pass the test but are “bad,” like “Showgirls.” “Do feminists look at Showgirls and chalk that one up as a big win?” he asks.
Forget the fact that Bechdel has never advocated for the test’s ability to determine a film’s quality or even, as Smith puts it, its “wokeness.” The idea that a person believes a film featuring talking women is automatically a “feminist film” is exactly the problem. 
Then, for a minute, Smith seems to be onto something, pointing out that some Bechdel Test advocates argue the test “isn’t meant to be a litmus test but rather a strategy for drawing attention to the general way women are sidelined in Hollywood.”
True! In 2016, women characters accounted for only 32 percent of all speaking roles, while 76 percent of all women characters (speaking or not) were white. Behind the scenes, women accounted for just 14 percent of all directors, writers, executive producers, producers, editors and cinematographers in the top 100 grossing films.
And then, Smith writes this:
But movies aren’t intended to be a proper demographic cross-section of America. Movies (at least Hollywood movies) are about people on the extremes of society — cops, criminals, superheroes. These extreme characters tend to be men, and men tend to be the ones who create them.
First comes the bizarre claim that Hollywood movies “are about people on the extremes of society,” which, sure, is certainly one thing that movies are sometimes about. (As another reader pointed out, “Oh my G-d, @rkylesmith thinks superheroes are real people.”) 
Then Smith asserts that these extreme characters “tend to be men.” Also, they tend to be created by men. However could that be? Yes, men did account for 89 percent of writers for 2016′s top grossing films, and some of those men did opt to tell stories about other men flying around in capes. It is because of Hollywood’s deep-seeded misogyny that men “tend to be” creating these same male-centric stories over and over again. (Please, no more superhero movies!)
“It might be true that there would be more women prominently featured in movies if more women were writing and directing more movies,” Smith says. But, regardless of how strongly you wish he’d just stop writing, Smith does not:
But it might also be true that the reason there aren’t as many women making films is that women’s movie ideas aren’t commercial enough for Hollywood studios. To be slightly less reductionist than the Bechdel Test, women tend to write movies about relationships, and men tend to write movies about aliens and shootouts.
What? Films written and directed by women in 2016 include “Alice Through the Looking Glass,” “Kung Fu Panda 2,” “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” “Girl on the Train,” “Ghostbusters,” and “Underworld 5.” And if Smith is suggesting films featuring meaningful interactions between women don’t do well at the box office, he’s wrong. Women, after all, comprise the majority of movie-goers.
We’re almost done, but his ending is a doozy:
Have a wander through the sci-fi and fantasy section of your local bookstore: How many of these books’ authors are female? Yet these are where the big movie ideas come from. If a woman wants the next Lord of the Rings–style franchise to pass the Bechdel Test, then a woman should come up with a story with as much earning potential as J. R. R. Tolkien’s.
Margaret Atwood. Octavia Butler. Nnedi Okorafor. Goddamn J.K. Rowling. 
This isn’t even what your article is about, Kyle, but sure, pile on some more specious sexism. It’s precisely because of assumptions like these that a test as elemental as the Bechdel Test ― which only requires women speak to each other about something other than men onscreen ― is at all necessary in today’s film landscape. 
Share this slide:
To mark the 110th anniversary of Frida Kahlo’s birth, the Dallas Museum of Art welcomed more than 1,000 look-alikes dressed as the famous Mexican painter on July 7 in an effort to break a world record.
What does it take to reach such an achievement? In order to set a Guinness World Record for the largest gathering of people dressed as Kahlo, participants of all genders, ages and races needed to carefully mimic the artist’s signature look: a knee-length dress (no slits), at least three flowers in their hair, a pink or red rebozo (shawl) around their shoulders, and, yes, a unibrow proudly displayed. Originally, the museum expected to attract around 250 eager fans, but Kahlo mania proved stronger than organizers thought. Over 1,000 Fridas helped the DMA along in its efforts.
“More than 5,000 people turned out to celebrate Frida Kahlo’s 110th birthday” during Frida Fest, the museum told HuffPost in a statement, noting that just over 1,000 qualified for the world record attempt. Among them was a 13-year-old named Sofia Valadez who recounted her connection to Kahlo to Dallas News.
I’ve recently looked up what Frida does and seen her self-portraits, and she’s so true to herself and proud of herself and it’s an inspiration. She’s such a strong, independent woman. And I like her eyebrows.
The DMA partnered with the Latino Center for Leadership Development for the event, and will submit evidence of their triumphant Frida feat this week. The museum expects the review process will take up to 12 weeks’ time. In the meantime, we’ve secured some of the so-called evidence of the record below. Behold, 1,000 Frida lookalikes attempting to break a world record.
(Warning: Babies with unibrows are dangerously adorable.)
“México 1900–1950: Diego Rivera, Frida Kahlo, José Clemente Orozco, and the Avant-Garde” is on view at the Dallas Museum of Art until July 16.
Share this slide:
From “Lord of the Rings” to “Game of Thrones,” blockbuster fantasy franchises have long been disproportionately white. Award-winning author Nnedi Okorafor is just one of the writers of color changing that by creating rich, diverse literary fantasy ― and the change is coming to prestige TV as well.
On Monday, Okorafor announced that her acclaimed novel Who Fears Death, a post-apocalyptic epic set in a future Sudan, has been optioned by HBO and is in the early stages of development. George R.R. Martin, the author whose saga “A Song of Ice and Fire” inspired HBO’s hit “Game of Thrones,” has been attached to the project as an executive producer.
My novel WHO FEARS DEATH has been optioned by @HBO & is now in early development as a TV series with George RR Martin as executive producer. pic.twitter.com/POF7Dj2hWP
In a Facebook post, the author added, “Note: This did not happen overnight. It’s been nearly 4 years coming.” 
A first-generation Nigerian American, Okorafor drew from her own experiences visiting Nigeria and learning about her family’s Igbo culture, as well as contemporary accounts of genocidal violence in Sudan, to build a fantasy futuristic world for her saga, which was published in 2010.
Who Fears Death is set in a future Sudan, where the dark-skinned Okeke are subject to violent oppression at the hands of the light-skinned Nuru. After an Okeke woman is attacked by a Nuru general in a genocidal rape, she gives birth to a daughter she names Onyesonwu. An outcast because of her parentage, Onyesonwu is also set apart by her burgeoning magical powers ― and her origins and abilities have marked her out for a terrifying and momentous destiny.
Between HBO’s resources, George R.R. Martin’s blood’n’guts bonafides and, most importantly, Okorafor’s brilliant, textured source material, this sounds like a fantasy blockbuster to watch out for. 
Share this slide:
There’s a reason antidemocratic leaders often persecute authors and ban literature: Books hold the power to undermine poisonous norms, harmful social constructs and oppressive governments.
Even more powerful than books alone are book clubs and reading groups. When resistance is afoot, book clubs are often buzzing. Not only can the clubs help politically inflamed members motivate themselves, and each other, to read relevant books ― 1984, The Handmaid’s Tale, Thomas Piketty’s Capital in the 21st Century ― it’s a ready-made reason for friends to gather and talk about the anxieties and ideas du jour.
So it makes sense that, as Ruth Graham reported in Slate last week, the election of President Donald J. Trump has galvanized book clubs. Graham’s mother, and her colleague’s mother (the vast majority of book clubbers are women and over 45), reported reading or considering more political fare in recent months, from The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead to Hillbilly Elegy by J.D. Vance. Plus, Graham noticed, there are a rash of new, explicitly political book clubs, some online and some in-person. 
As social networks that emphasize the exchange of thought, book clubs have always had a civic-minded side. Benjamin Franklin’s famous book club, Junto, established in 1727, brought men together to talk about business, literature, philosophy and politics. Like many clubs, including women’s clubs, that followed, Junto allowed members to supplement a lack in formal education. For those of humble (like Franklin) or otherwise unprivileged origins, reading groups were an ideal avenue to learning. Enslaved people were barred from learning to read, but freedmen and women in the northern states formed literary discussion groups for similar ends. Eventually Franklin’s group became a driving force behind civic projects like the first public lending library and a volunteer fire department.
Women’s book clubs, in particular, have a subversive history. Up until quite recently, women getting together to gab about books was viewed as suspicious rather than silly and self-indulgent. Talking about ideas was the provenance of men, much like higher education and politics. All the way back in the 1630s, Anne Hutchinson held a Bible study group for women at her home, at which she and the other ladies could continue talking about Scripture after the minister’s sermon. The group quickly grew so popular that she sometimes held meetings to which men were invited. In short order, the Puritan establishment became suspicious of her popular gathering and the theological discussions it held; in 1638, she was banished for promulgating a heretical doctrine. At her trial, Governor John Winthrop accused her of having “maintained a meeting and an assembly in your house that hath been condemned by the general assembly as a thing not tolerable nor comely in the sight of God nor fitting for your sex.”
Women’s political and civic improvement groups, most notably the consciousness-raising groups popularized by second-wave feminists, followed in the same tradition as reading groups. Often there wasn’t a clear distinction. Not only was women seeking education subversive in itself for centuries, talking about ideas often led women into acting on them, writing and speaking publicly about their ideals. Feminism, for example. In 1839, the principal of a girls’ seminary in New Hampshire wrote a circular urging both students and alumnae to read and write together not only for their own improvement, but for “the elevation of our sex universally.” (Sarah Sleeper, the principal in question, also urged women to serve as evangelical Protestant missionaries in order to save “the heathen,” so a bit of a mixed bag.)
Consciousness-raising groups promoted by second-wave feminists, Broadly pointed out, followed book clubs in structure: a group of women who meet regularly to share their thoughts on given topics. But the distinction is more cosmetic than anything. Consciousness-raising groups explicitly gave women the opportunity to get away from their domestic responsibilities, take stock of their lives and discuss shared experiences and ideas; the modern book club, often pilloried as an excuse for housewives to drink wine and vent about their marriages, does the same, whether or not the conversation stays focused on the nominal topic. Women, after all, still do most of the household work ― especially older women from more traditional generations. A guilt-free outing to a book club, where she can focus on her own thoughts for an hour or two, may be particularly appealing to the gender with five fewer hours of leisure a week.
Book clubs and kaffeeklatsches have long offered space for female bonding, self-education and even political organizing that white men, with their comfortable hold on the vote and positions of political and corporate power, didn’t need. But as women escaped their domestic confines for book club meetings, the feminine stigma burgeoned. Today, many men are reluctant join book clubs because they’re, y’know, for girls ― though some aggressively masculine clubs have launched to entice the manly men.
Besides, keeping a book club running is work, the kind of humble administrative task that women have always been expected to shoulder. Though some book clubs meet in public locations, many are hosted by members in their homes. People bring homemade dip, brownies and bottles of wine. They do the expected reading. It’s kept together by the mutual service of the members, the subordination of their whims to the needs of the group. Any woman who has noticed that the men in her office never organize the birthday parties, or that her husband is never the one to remember the kids’ dentist appointments, will know that one gender has been far more effectively conditioned to perform these duties. Women also, apparently, become the social directors in their households: Research has shown that women maintain larger support networks and are less socially affected by the loss of a spouse.
The book club runs on the type of social networking that women have long been expected to do in support of men ― having the husband’s boss over for dinner, then leaving them to talk about serious things over a scotch and cigar after dinner, to take one very 1950s example ― though upperclass women, like the aristocratic hostesses of Parisian salons, could foist that work on servants. It’s work that looks a lot like political grassroots organizing: thankless, dedicated and most effective when it connects people and spreads ideas.
Book clubs have been moving back and forth between overt political action and more subtle civic engagement for centuries, so the progressive resistance to Trump is just the latest example of a political flare-up, with resistance clubs sprouting all over. Graham pointed to the new book club launched by Daily Action, a text message-based resistance network; in-person clubs hosted by bookstores and Meetup groups also abound. 
But one thing is clear: Women ― especially older women and black women ― know how to create communities, literary and political. Lest we forget, it was Oprah who launched the biggest book club we've yet seen. Other prominent new book clubs -- Well-Read Black Girl, geared toward black women; Emma Watson's feminist club Our Shared Shelf; Oprah's Book Club 2.0 -- were created by women to harness the curiosity and intellect of women. Activist movements have done the same. The Black Lives Matter movement, largely spearheaded by black women, burst into the public consciousness well before Trump’s presidency even seemed possible. The Women’s March was reportedly the largest single-day protest in U.S. history. And meanwhile, as Graham relates at Slate, women around the country are reading books that help them understand our political moment and discussing them together.
As we derided women for gathering with paperbacks and coffee cake, they were building networks ripe for political conversation and social action. The rest of us are starting from scratch.
Share this slide:
The first single off SZA’s intoxicating new album “Ctrl” is called “Drew Barrymore,” named after the R&B singer’s favorite actress. The song, whose chorus goes “Warm enough for ya outside baby, yeah / Is it warm enough for ya inside me, me, me, me?”, addresses the way lopsided power dynamics in relationships yield low self-esteem, as SZA asks again and again if she’s warm ― i.e. hot ― enough for her man’s liking. 
SZA has described Barrymore, who’s not only referenced in the song title but makes a brief cameo in the music video, as an “endless inspiration,” particularly due to her roles in ’90s teen rom-coms that frame her as a pariah struggling to find a dude. “When I was watching Never Been Kissed,” SZA told Vulture, “that’s my experience. I was hella outcast in school. I was watching it like, ‘Yes! Win for all of us!’”
Barrymore has, over the course of her 35-year career, become the one we root for. The one whose victories feel like our own. This could be, in part, because Barrymore’s most iconic roles ― in films like “Never Been Kissed,” “Charlie’s Angels” and “The Wedding Singer” ― came out around the time millennial women were dressing up for middle school dances, trying on training bras and awkwardly fumbling through AIM chats with potential crushes. These PG-13 films were, at least for me, like instruction manuals, and Drew’s characters ― alternating slightly between square and badass, clumsy and confident ― were my guides. 
But you can’t talk about Barrymore without talking about her life, the way it was broadcast so publicly since she was a kid and the ways her fans sought to relate to it. What does it take for a celebrity to become “relatable” when their lives are anything but? Today, many stars curate or communicate their personas to fans via social media. Like Kim Kardashian, whose chronic oversharing makes her unattainable lifestyle feel like home. Or Rihanna, whose electrifying lack of filters lets you bask in her glow. Or Lena Dunham, whose dutiful posting makes her feel like your most accomplished friend of a friend of a friend.
Barrymore’s rise to fame, however, took place before the internet became the site where fantastical friendships between stars and fans blossom. And yet, having been an unwitting celebrity virtually since birth, her life was put on display from a young age, the gory details of her struggles and triumphs made public for all to imbibe and critique, making her somewhat of a proto-internet celebrity.
Born in 1975 in Los Angeles, California, Barrymore was the child of two actors; both her paternal grandparents and great-grandparents were actors as well. Her first-ever role was in a dog food commercial at the ripe old age of 11 months, but she became one of the most famous child celebrities after starring in “E.T.” at 7. One of the earliest pictures of Barrymore available via the stock photo agency Getty shows the actress when she was just 4 years old:
A 1995 Rolling Stone interview described Barrymore, who followed up “E.T.” with films like “Firestarter” and “Irreconcilable Differences,” as “a 40-year-old in a 9-year-old’s body.” Emancipated from her parents ate age 14, she’d already struggled with alcohol, drugs, mental illness and depression. All very publicly.
Barrymore is neither the first nor the last child star to experience trauma as an offshoot of fame. Nor was she particularly unique in announcing her maturity to the world through public displays of sexuality. At age 17, Barrymore posed for her first nude magazine cover for Interview magazine. The same year she published a memoir titled Little Girl Lost. At 19, she had a Playboy cover and famously flashed David Letterman on his late night TV show. 
Hollywood has the tendency to flatten female stars’ identities into monolithic feminine stereotypes. As a kid, Barrymore was the fucked-up child star, the poor kid, the trainwreck. “At one point [her life] seemed like campy fun for the world to laugh at her,” Chris Mundy wrote in that 1995 Rolling Stone interview. As she aged, her catch-all descriptor changed shape somewhat. She became the inevitable wild child, the bad girl. She played a “trashy girl”-turned-crazed-murderer in 1992′s “Single White Female”-esque thriller “Poison Ivy,” and a sex worker who helps a colleague kill an abusive client in 1994′s “Bad Girls.”
And yet, even during this phase of “rebellion,” especially in the eyes of the young women who admired her, Barrymore exuded an authentic craving for affection that most take caution to keep tucked away. SZA certainly noticed. “She was all dark and she had her hair over her eyes, she was fucking up families and being weird, but she really just wanted to be loved,” she said. “She was lashing out because she was lonely and pissed that her life was like this. I felt that.”
And then, something in Barrymore’s public persona began shifting yet again. As she left her teen years behind, she started to be seen less as a tragic figure, full stop, and more of “a living embodiment of tragedy and survival,” as Mundy put it. Even at 20 years old, Barrymore understood her self and her destiny were public spectacles for an often vicious public. She asked Mundy: “Do you think people are interested in me because of the tragedy or because of the survival?” 
The interview corresponded with the release of the 1995 film “Mad Love,” in which Barrymore plays a “whimsical yet dark” manic-pixie type who attempts suicide, is placed in a mental institution and is sprung out by a dude who whisks her away on a romantic road trip to “cure” her pain. “My character goes into an institution, and her brain starts to deteriorate,” Barrymore said. “How many other fucking actresses can relate to that? I can!”
How many other women can relate to that ― famous or not? 
SZA, née Solána Rowe, was born 15 years after Barrymore in 1990 and grew up in the suburban town of Maplewood, New Jersey. Before she discovered music at 22, she was into gymnastics, jazz, science and, perhaps most of all, film. “I’m obsessed with movies,” she told Teen Vogue in 2016. “So when I first started my album, I named all of my songs after actresses.”
When “Ctrl” was finally released after extensive delays, “Drew Barrymore” was the only allusion to movies on deck. Yet the entire album evokes a nostalgia for school days and the feelings that ran high during that period of adolescence that maybe never ended ― insecurity, wobbly sexuality, openness, vulnerability and a hunger for love. “I just imagine this being the soundtrack to one of those movies. Cue Freddie Prinze, Jr.,” she told fans at a show. 
SZA’s album addresses similar themes that defined the high school romantic comedy genre throughout the ’90s and early 2000s. Only, instead of being written by rooms of old, white Hollywood men through hackneyed yet amusing cliches, SZA’s songs come straight from her heart, her belly, her honeyed vocal chords. “I really wish I was a normal girl,” she sings on a track titled “Normal Girl,” bringing urgency and pumping blood to the stereotype of the awkward outcast.
For SZA and other women of her generation, who put their pictures, thoughts and feelings online for all the world to see, often receiving judgment, criticism and cruelty in return, Barrymore is a figure both relatable and inspirational. She was labeled and judged, she struggled and failed, often on a public stage. And yet her trials only fueled her as she subverted expectations and transcended categorizations to become an icon who is aspirational and decidedly imperfect. While she starred in Hollywood candy that tugged at our heartstrings in predictable ways, off camera, she was writing her own utterly unpredictable roles. 
“I just want to be free,” Barrymore said in the same ’95 Rolling Stone chat. “That’s the whole point I’ve been trying to make since I was a child, and I’m still making it.”
In the late ’90s, Barrymore transitioned from teenage bad girl to romantic lead, starring in a variety of films that cemented her status as a beloved Hollywood icon. In 1998, she starred opposite Adam Sandler in “The Wedding Singer” as a sweet, unassuming waitress; Christine Taylor playing her more promiscuous, Madonna-like best friend. Barrymore was a leading lady from there on out, whose plot lines determined she was worthy of love and happy endings.
Her next role was, literally, Cinderella in “Ever After,” followed by a charming, pregnant fast-food worker in the beloved flop with a bizarrely convoluted plot, “Home Fries.” No longer naughty, nasty or bad, Barrymore was accepted as wholesome, goofy, awkward and endearing.
Most Barrymore fans hold a special place in their hearts for 1999′s “Never Been Kissed.” Barrymore stars as Josie Geller, a nerdy copy editor at The Chicago Sun Times who receives the unorthodox assignment of posing as a high school student and “finding the story there.” Gellar, still haunted by her own miserable high school experience, when she was excluded, taunted and dubbed “Josie Grossie,” ends up overcoming: She becomes popular, makes out with her English teacher, etc.
For women who are now in their 20s and 30s, who first saw “Never Been Kissed” as elementary or middle schoolers, the impact is huge. Some aspects of the film don’t age particularly well ― for example, the part when a teacher makes advances on a girl who’s ostensibly 17 ― but the film perfectly encapsulates the bygone era of romantic comedies, when makeovers were conducted, choreographed dances were performed and shit went down at prom.
Women around my age have a fierce devotion to Barrymore in part because her films came out at a time when we were impressionable and fanatic. I was 9 years old when “Never Been Kissed” came out. I remember it well because, during the scene in which Molly Shannon poses as a sex-ed teacher and demonstrates to students how to put condoms on bananas, my mom walked me and my burning cheeks out of the theater. When I finally got to watch the movie in its entirety, I was a disciple for life. 
Romantic comedies are known to be formulaic, unrealistic and a little corny ― often in the best of ways. But Drew’s mere presence adds a certain depth to the genre’s sparkling surface, in part because viewers root for her not just within the confines of the film, but in her life. “I related to the fact that Drew came out among all these model-esque, aristocratic white women that were super-beautiful, but very typical,” SZA told Rolling Stone. “We expect Michelle Pfeiffer, we expect Julianne Moore. But [Drew] just came through, and she was gorgeous and radiant and funny and honest.”
When “Charlie’s Angels” released in 2000, tween girls shaped their hands into three-fingered revolvers, posing in photos with their two best friends. Barrymore played Dylan, whose overt sexuality and defiant attitude were a callback to the actress’ earlier days and just how far she’d come. To see her exhibit these qualities, without being vilified for them, was a glorious thing.
On one level, Barrymore represents nostalgia, happy endings, girls who are awkward and slightly out of place but still worthy of love. On another, she embodies a spirit of survival and self-transformation that many hope to emulate. Yes, she’s a white, able-bodied, conventionally beautiful cis-woman of privilege. But in the terrain of Hollywood, she always felt like something of a black sheep.
As SZA put it: “She was really weird and quirky when she came out. Her teeth ― I had braces for most of my life, and I still fucked my teeth up after that somehow, not wearing my retainer. I was just always very self-conscious about that, not being smooth, not being cool enough. In every movie she played, she was always the oddball.”
There aren’t very many female role models whose missteps and contradictions are widely recognized to have fueled their growth and power. If a “female role model” does display addictive or depressive tendencies, fall in and out of love sloppily and whole-heartedly, transform her appearance on a whim, she is expected to grow out of it, to “find her way,” to evolve into a stable and coherent version of herself. Yet Barrymore never grows out of her complexity. She never stifles her contradictions. She never quite reaches that perfect Hollywood ending.
In 2016 Barrymore endured her third public divorce, from art consultant Will Kopelman. She responded to the breakup with unfiltered vulnerability, telling Chelsea Handler: “When you get divorced, you’re like, ’I’m the biggest failure. This is the biggest failure.’ It’s so shameful and hard to actually go through that, even privately.”
Her description reflected the consistent way Barrymore has lived her erratic and paradoxical life: honestly, openly, hungrily. 
As SZA said about her own album: “I’m talking a lot of grimy shit, but it’s truth.”
Through telling her truth, both in life and on screen, Barrymore became a hero for millennial women. Part bad girl, part Hollywood darling, part survivor, part outcast, part free spirit, Barrymore could never be pigeonholed into a single category. Since her childhood, viewers have watched Barrymore change and grow, not necessarily towards a specific point but toward a space of freedom, of love, where failure is OK. She is resilient and exuberant, consistently metamorphosing hardship into energy, heartbreak into love, pain into art. 
For the next generation of young women struggling to define themselves to their peers and themselves, Barrymore offers up her own path generously and without censorship. “I don’t have the energy to create a filter anymore,” SZA told Complex, following Barrymore’s lead. “If you don’t define yourself, people do it for you. I don’t want that.”
One scene in SZA’s “Drew Barrymore” video takes place at a house party, a 2017 redux of the red cup-laden scenes in movies like “Never Been Kissed” or that Freddie Prinze Jr. classic, “She’s All That.” As friends roll joints, drain wine bottles, bounce to the beat and make out in the kitchen, SZA smokes in the bathtub and zones out, mulling over her insecurities again and again. 
She sings: “I get so lonely, I forget what I’m worth / We get so lonely, we pretend that this works / I’m so ashamed of myself think I need therapy-y-y-y.” Like Barrymore, SZA speaks her shame, forcing it, at least somewhat, to change shape. 
Eventually SZA takes a break from the party and sits alone on the roof when who should come up the stairs but Barrymore herself. Drew gives SZA a wordless smile and walks off. Though the interaction takes just seconds, SZA’s face lights up immediately. But she doesn’t just snap into a good mood and head back to the bottles. Instead she dials up the intensity of her self-reflective meditation, her voice growing louder and more abrasive as she sings: “Cause it’s hard enough you got to treat me like this / Lonely enough to let you treat me like this / Do you really love me / Or just wanna love me down, down, down, down?”
Drew’s presence doesn’t make everything better. But she’s there to help turn shame and pain into material, into the grimy shit. The stuff that helps us know ourselves and each other. 
You can be highbrow. You can be lowbrow. But can you ever just be brow? Welcome to Middlebrow, a regular examination of pop culture. Read more here.
Share this slide:
The collective genius of the internet has once again worked its magic. A group of Reddit users have gone about collecting a series of photographs that are not from a Wes Anderson film, but might as well be.
If you’ve ever seen a film by the 48-year-old Anderson, you’ll know that the component parts of one his films are unmistakable, regardless of the project’s theme and characters. There are the eye-popping colors and the strong, well-defined lines. There are the eccentric architectural triumphs and eerie quiet. But most importantly, there are those shots ― the ones that zoom in and out with an almost borderline obsessiveness in their quest for near-perfect, everything-just-so symmetry.
It is a beautiful, signature look ― and apparently one that, every so occasionally, people around the world have stumbled upon in real life too. Hence, “Accidental Wes Anderson,” a brilliant subdivision of Reddit where people are collecting reality’s best attempts at recreating Anderson’s art.
And by the look of things, they’ve done quite a good job over their first couple months in business. We’ve said all we can. Just look at the photos. 
Share this slide:
Louisa May Alcott’s classic tale of sisterhood is coming to TV, which means a new set of March sisters to fall in love with ― not to mention Marmee, Laurie, and the whole gang.
This new screen version will be coming to the BBC and PBS’s Masterpiece Theater, the definitive purveyors of quality literary adaptations. Written by Heidi Thomas, the wordsmith behind such BBC hits as “Call the Midwife” and “Upstairs Downstairs,” the three-episode “Little Women” miniseries will be directed by Vanessa Caswill.
While the behind-the-scenes craft is important, we’re all itching to know who will bring the March family to life onscreen, right?
Jo, the tomboyish writer who is a perennial fan favorite, will be played by Maya Thurman-Hawke in her acting debut.  The daughter of Uma Thurman and Ethan Hawke started at Juilliard in September, but apparently she didn’t have to wait long for a big break.
The rest of the March quartet are more established faces: Willa Fitzgerald (“Scream: The TV Series”) as sweet eldest sister Meg, Annes Elwy (“King Arthur: Excalibur Rising”) as shy Beth, and Kathryn Newton (“Big Little Lies”) as the spoilt beauty Amy. 
The adult cast brings real star power to the cozy New England town where the March family lives. Angela Lansbury, screen and stage queen, is set to play Aunt March, a wealthy but crotchety old relative who at various times employs Jo and Amy as personal companions to supplement their family’s meager income.
Marmee, the girls’ mother, will be portrayed by Emily Watson, and Michael Gambon, a.k.a. Dumbledore, will take the role of the moneyed new neighbor Mr. Laurence. His grandson, the adorable and doe-eyed Laurie, will be played by Jonah Hauer-King (“The Last Photograph”).
Starring in a “Little Women” reboot is almost a rite of passage for young starlets-in-the-making. The 1994 film version starred Kirsten Dunst, Winona Ryder and Claire Danes; a 1949 one starred Elizabeth Taylor, and Katharine Hepburn memorably played Jo in a 1933 film.
Will Hawke or one of her costars be the next Dunst, Taylor or Hepburn? We can’t wait to find out.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article mistakenly referred to Michael Gambon as Richard Gambon. It has since been corrected.
Share this slide:
As an artist and a scientist, Heather Dewey-Hagborg is used to questioning where science and technology are headed and how their trajectories might affect our lives. 
“Making people uncomfortable is really squarely the point of my work,” she wrote in an email to HuffPost. For example, her project “Stranger Visions” consists of a series of portraits based solely on human DNA she’d gathered from discarded items found in New York City ― think: hair, cigarettes, gum.
Most recently, Dewey-Hagborg has been collaborating with a rather unlikely partner: Chelsea Manning. Together, they’ve created a series of “portrait masks” derived from Manning’s DNA, retrieved while she was incarcerated and undergoing hormone replacement therapy.
“I guess [they’re] a bit creepy on purpose,” she explained of the portraits, on view this August at Fridman Gallery in New York City. “But hopefully a creepiness that provokes cultural reflection.”
As much of the world knows by now, Manning shot to fame in 2013 after she published thousands of secret documents related to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars on Wikileaks, unveiling disturbing accounts of torture and abuse by U.S. soldiers. Manning was sentenced to 35 years in prison, the longest sentence ever handed down to a government whistleblower.
The day after she was sentenced, Chelsea, then known as Bradley Manning and presenting as male, came out as transgender. “I want everyone to know the real me,” her statement read. “I am Chelsea Manning. I am a female. Given the way that I feel, and have felt since childhood, I want to begin hormone therapy as soon as possible.” For years, Manning lived behind bars in an all-male military prison at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. After suing the army with the support of the ACLU, Manning became the first person to receive hormone replacement therapy in a military prison.
Yet Manning was prohibited from taking photographs in prison, and as such, her image was hidden from public view for the entirety of her incarceration. For Manning, this reality was not just an inconvenience, but a denial of her very humanity. “Prisons try very hard to make us inhuman and unreal by denying our image,” she told Boing Boing in 2016. “And thus our existence, to the rest of the world. Imagery has become a kind of proof of existence. Just consider the online refrain ‘pics or it didn’t happen.’”
And that’s where Dewey-Hagborg came in. 
In 2012 and 2013, Dewey-Haborg began extracting DNA samples from detritus around NYC. She then analyzed the samples using a DNA phenotyping process often used by law enforcement to create forensic profiles of criminal suspects. Dewey-Haborg used the genetic information she found to generate 3D-printed, life-size “portrait masks” of anonymous people she’d never met.
In 2015, Paper Magazine commissioned Dewey-Hagborg to conduct a similar biological portrait process, this time with Manning. From prison, Manning supplied DNA samples by mailing packages of cheek swabs and hair clippings, for a project dubbed “Probably Chelsea.” What Manning’s DNA could not illuminate, however, was her transition.
“Of course DNA is important, vital,” Dewey-Hagborg explained. “But it is just a portion of what makes us who we are. We are increasingly learning how significant epigenetics is, and of course environment is unquestionably a major, if not the major, thing shaping us. What ‘Probably Chelsea’ does is show just how many ways your DNA can be interpreted, or read as data.”
For her earlier portraits, Dewey-Hagborg relied on chromosomes to predict whether her subjects were male or female. For Manning, “there were two options that I thought of,” Dewey-Hagborg recounted. “I could leave the sex parameter out entirely. There really wasn’t any reason to deem it worthy of analyzing. Or we could go with self-identified gender over genetic sex.”
Dewey-Hagborg created two distinct “portrait masks” of Manning, one that was “algorithmically gender neutral” and one “algorithmically female,” which she placed side by side. The two versions were created using morphable models that can be adjusted to look “more male,” “neutral,” or “more female” ― generalized from 3D scans of people’s actual faces.
But what truly constitutes a “female face” ― and how much of this aesthetic relates to biological chromosomes? These are some of the questions Dewey-Hagborg hopes to raise. “Things like gender and race become problematic because they rely on very simplistic kinds of stereotypes,” she told Paper.  
Dewey-Hagborg began corresponding with Manning, whom she described as “incredibly positive,” in 2015. They worked together, along with illustrator Shoili Kanungo, on a comic book called “Suppressed Images,” imagining a scenario in which Manning’s sentence was cut short and she could stand face-to-face with her own portrait. In January of 2017, President Barack Obama officially commuted Manning’s sentence; she was released in May of the same year. She will now be able to view her portraits in person this August.
With biotechnology rapidly advancing, its impact can be seen in everything from reproductive to genetic engineering, Dewey-Hagborg hopes her work shines a cautionary light on the science’s shortcomings.
“Art has an important role here,” she explained, “not just to be educational and show how science works, but to be provocative and critical, to show how it will work on us and through us and with us. To ask questions about how new science and technology will impact our lives.”
Fridman Gallery curator Roddy Schrock seconded Dewey-Hagborg’s trust in art to cast a critical eye on technological advances with a particular agenda in mind. “Our relationship to technology typically flickers between hope and disappointment. Chelsea and Heather, through the work in this exhibition, help us remember to act from a place of hope.”
As much as the collaboration between Dewey-Hagborg inspires hope, it also evokes a sense of dread and unease. Perhaps it’s just seeing such a realistic face, removed from a body and placed on display as what it is: a mask. Or maybe it’s that the floating faces invite the viewer to a space of in-between, where few commonly accepted categories can be swallowed as fact. 
The exhibition destabilizes binary understandings beyond just male and female. What qualities do we, as humans, choose, and which choose us? What is fixed and what is in flux? Where is the boundary between what is visualized and what is hidden? How easily can that boundary be erased ― through an art experiment, a photograph or a leak? How can the same technology shift from the domain of science into art?
For Dewey-Hagborg, the goal is to illuminate the danger that essentialist understandings of human beings pose to the future of science. “We need these points to be made from all sides,” she explained, “from policy and critical studies, and also from within science itself. I think this is beginning to happen, and it is very encouraging. But we need much more.”
Heather Dewey-Hagborg & Chelsea Manning’s “A Becoming Resemblance,” curated by Roddy Schrock, will be on view from Aug. 2 until Sept. 5 at Fridman Gallery in New York.  
One of author Jane Austen’s novels, Northanger Abbey, famously departs from the realist social satire of her other work to ruthlessly, and hilariously, parody the Gothic romances popular in her day. But to properly parody such novels means one must read them ― and it seems Austen did. 
According to The Guardian, a letter up for auction next week shows the novelist’s taste in melodramatic fiction hadn’t abated since finishing Northanger Abbey around 10 years earlier. Dated in October 1812, Austen’s letter, actually sent to her niece, is humorously addressed to Rachel Hunter, the author of Lady Maclairn, the Victim of Villany. 
Austen and her niece, Anna Lefroy, had recently read the novel, of which Lefroy herself said, “there was no harm in it whatsoever only in a most unaccountable way the same story about the same people [was] represented at least three times over.” Austen’s letter playfully mocks the book’s florid prose and floods of unrestrained sentiment. At one point, she beseeches Hunter to continue producing volumes about the couple’s courtship, which was “handled too briefly.”
If the book was so dreadful, why was the illustrious Austen bothering with it at all? Lefroy’s daughter, Fanny-Caroline Lefroy, wrote that her mother and aunt had been “reading & laughing over [Lady Maclairn], together.” Even Austen, apparently, happily found enjoyment in reading something mediocre in order to mock it and pick it apart.
It seems that long before reality TV binges and bodice-rippers, women were indulging in entertainment that mixed straightforward pleasure with the appreciation of unintentional camp. Much like TV today, novels were considered indulgent and frivolous in Austen’s day ― a dangerous distraction from edifying pursuits such as reading sermons or learning needlepoint. Though critically lauded works like hers helped establish the novel as a meaningful art form, lowbrow Gothic romances were also a commonplace source of light entertainment. 
So to all you guilty-pleasure fans out there, know that no less than Austen was of your ranks. Maybe if she’d lived today, she would have been on Book Twitter every Monday night, live-tweeting “The Bachelor” ― which boasts its own absurd vocabulary and overwrought romantic travails ― with her signature wit and, dare we say, snark. 
Share this slide:
Margaret Atwood, a woman whose demands we’ll always heed for fear of ending up on the wrong side of a nation-fracturing apocalypse, has made a simple request: Drake, surrender yourself. And make a cameo appearance in “Handmaid’s Tale” Season 2.
In a recent interview, Boston Review fiction editor and acclaimed author Junot Díaz asked the Handmaid’s Tale writer a question we’ve all lacked the valor to ask ourselves: “So, have you met Drake?”
Sadly, Atwood, a Canadian, has not met Drake, also a Canadian. (She has “met people who have met Drake,” though.) But the whimsical interrogation led to a brilliant confession. She thinks it would be “fun” for Drake to have a cameo role in the return of Hulu’s “Handmaid’s Tale.” 
I’ll drop that notion into the ear of Bruce Miller, the showrunner, and see what he can do with that, because of course the show is filmed in Toronto. Maybe Drake could help smuggle someone?
Yes, Margaret, we support you. Drake would make a fantastic resident of Little America, where he’s fomenting a resistance group alongside Samira Wiley and O-T Fagbenle. Or perhaps he’s in Gilead, kicking Max Minghella into action?
Just, please, don’t make him a commander. 
Sometimes it seems New York City’s Strand Bookstore is the only indie bookshop in the region invulnerable to the vagaries of the bookselling market. The store, which celebrated its 90th anniversary in June, has remained a local staple through the rampages of Barnes & Noble, Amazon and encroaching outposts of faceless banks, fast fashion shops and frozen yogurt parlors. It’s been staunchly guarded over the decades by three generations of the Bass family, starting with its founder Benjamin Bass in 1927, followed by his son, Fred, who also turns 90 this year, and now Fred’s daughter Nancy Bass Wyden, who manages the store alongside her father.
But for Bass Wyden, the ravages of big box stores and online conglomerates are an afterthought.
“I think we’ve always ... been a little myopic and kept to what we do,” she told HuffPost in a recent conversation about the store’s proud history. “I don’t really think about competitors that much.” 
That doesn’t mean success has come easily, though. The store operates in a constant churn of activity ― two events a day, seven days a week; pop-up outlets around town. The Strand currently has plans to move its business offices from the third floor of the building to the 10th, to allow the expansion of the third floor’s Rare Books Room, which doubles as an event space. “
We are focused on our community,” Bass Wyden said. And on growing that community: By selling subscription boxes that ship internationally, handling book sales at Comic-Con and BookCon, and setting up kiosks around the city, from Central Park to the Union Square holiday market, the Strand is tentatively expanding its footprint, becoming more and more woven into the city’s literary fabric.
Then there’s the store’s line of bookish accessories, like tote bags, which are designed in-house. “First we designed a tote bag and put our name and address and phone number and zip code on it,” said Bass Wyden, laughing. “And then we looked around us, and we were like, we have lots of artists that work for us.” Now, she said, three full-time designers work on the Strand’s array of products.  
Bass Wyden, who studied English literature and business, then worked at Exxon managing retail gas stations for several years before returning to join the family business, has pushed for modernizing the store.
Her father, she said, “never wanted to invest in making the store look good. Painting the ceiling white or getting air-conditioning here was a little bit of an argument.” (Then again, she added, this generational struggle is nothing new; once it was her father arguing that her grandfather should begin to open the store on Sundays.) Die-hard Strand fans have criticized the store’s move toward more novelties ― cheeky fridge magnets and T-shirts ― that take floor space away from books. A couple years ago, the store reorganized and integrated more table displays among the towering stacks. Not everyone was pleased. 
“We have a little bit of a tightrope, where we’re trying to be genuine and authentic to our past ― books, used books ― and still trying to keep up with the modern age,” Bass Wyden said. Every bookstore struggles with this balance, if they care to hold on to the idealistic mission of bookselling at all. The Strand has evolved from its old, tightly shelved, musty aesthetic, but it hasn’t gone so far as to install a Starbucks where the Rare Books Room once was, or to devote half its floor space to CDs and e-readers.
“Our focus is on the books,” emphasized Bass Wyden. “The way we put it is, the books are the sentence and the other items are the punctuation: They’re fun and more spontaneous, and books are a little bit more of a commitment.”
Though the Strand looks fresher and less jammed with books than it once did, Bass Wyden says she knows that its idiosyncratic elements are its greatest competitive advantage. When chain bookstores like Borders and Barnes & Noble were on the rise, many an indie bookstore fell victim to the new competition. The Strand, she recalled, was surrounded by a slew of Barnes & Nobles that sprouted in the neighborhood, including a used bookstore the chain opened.
“I think that was directed to us, the used bookstore there,” she said. “I can’t say for sure what Barnes & Noble was thinking, but a lot of people felt that Barnes & Noble went into their towns and targeted the small, independent bookstore.” Most of those Barnes & Nobles are gone now, but the Strand remains. How? Bass Wyden suggested that it simply had good prices ― unlike the major chains, the Strand offers discount prices and used books ― and remained a place for real booklovers to get down and dirty with literature. “We made more of a unique experience,” she explained. “It wasn’t so sterile.”
The Strand isn’t untouchable, however. Even before the era of Big Bookstores, the Strand had to scrap to stay afloat. “My mother tells a story of when she was first married,” Bass Wyden told HuffPost. “My dad came home and said, ‘I don’t know what we’re going to do. We only took in $17 of sales.’” At each frightening turn, however, the Basses managed to keep plunging ahead and keep the store in business. During the Great Depression, Benjamin Bass fell badly behind on his rent, but was allowed to stay on until he could repay the debt by his landlord, a Stuyvesant scion. Years later, when the Stuyvesants doubled rents in the area, the Strand was left untouched.  
Change being the one constant in New York City, this arrangement didn’t last. In the 1950s, the building was torn down to make way for a more lucrative development, leaving the Strand at another crossroads. “My grandfather said, ‘Let’s just go into mail order,’” said Bass Wyden. “And my dad said, ‘Let’s go to Broadway,’ because he knew there was more traffic here. But it was really a leap of faith.”
A leap of faith that paid off handsomely. In the late 1990s, the Basses purchased the building on Broadway and 12th Street, of which it occupies several floors, granting itself freedom from rent hikes and sales to developers. Bass Wyden says she believes a bookstore like the Strand can succeed today without owning its own property, but she admits that “it really helps.”
“I think my family’s made the choice of wanting the Strand to continue,” she told HuffPost. “We have developers calling all the time, and that’s not what we want [...] Do we [in New York City] really need more banks? Clothing stores? This is the cultural and publishing and writing center of the world, here in New York. So we have to have good bookstores.”
Share this slide:
Turns out the Museum of Natural History could learn a thing or two from one very precocious 10-year-old dinosaur lover.
Charlie Edwards was visiting the London museum for an overnight sleepover with his family when he noticed something peculiar ― a sign picturing the silhouette of a Protoceratops was mislabelled as an Oviraptor. (While Protoceratops were four-legged creatures, Oviraptors were bipedal and walked on their hind legs ― obviously.)
Charlie told his mom he suspected the exhibit was incorrect and she was understandably dubious. As she told The Telegraph, “I said to him ’this is the Natural History Museum ― I know you’re really good with your dinosaur information but I’m not sure if you’re right.’”
Yet Charlie ― who’s wanted to be a paleontologist since he was 3 ― was adamant, assuring his mother, “I’m telling you, I’m right.” He insisted on alerting a member of the museum staff, and it’s a good thing he did.  
A few weeks after his visit, Charlie received a letter from the museum telling him that he was absolutely correct; the Oviraptor label was wrongly classified after all. The institution pledged to amend the description and commended Charlie for his remarkable paleontological chops. 
“The Museum was recently made aware of a mistake in one of our dinosaur galleries,” the Museum explained in a statement. “This has now been raised with our exhibitions team, and we will change this as soon as possible.”
“Scientific research and our understanding of the natural world are constantly changing and the Dinosaurs gallery has been refurbished several times to reflect this,” the institution continued. “Unfortunately, in the process an error has been made. We are very impressed with Charlie’s knowledge and hope his passion for paleontology continues.”
We, too, are supremely impressed, but probably not quite as floored as Charlie’s mother. 
“I am really really proud of him,” his mother told The Telegraph. “Charlie has Aspergers [sic] syndrome and tends to find a subject he loves and tries to learn so much about it, so it’s really nice that he’s been able to show what he’s learnt and that knowledge base.”
Warning: This article contains nudity and may not be suitable for work environments. 
Marie Tomanova grew up in Mikulov, a small town in Czech Republic, back when it was still Czechoslovakia. Farming was her life; when Tomanova wasn’t in school, she was tending to the vineyards or tomato fields around her home. “I wanted to play with other kids,” Tomanova told HuffPost. “Instead of that I was farming with my family.”
It wasn’t until Tomanova moved to New York City to pursue a career as an artist that she began to appreciate, and even long for, the kinship with nature that was thrust upon her as a child. “I missed the smell of dirt, the sound of trees, the pure things that remind you of being alive,” she said. 
This is, in part, why Tomanova has a ritual of escaping the city, going on solitary hikes and taking self-portraits of her body entangled with tree trunks, rocks, smashed petals and moss. For journeys like these, Tomanova takes off her clothing, as if to shed all intermediary layers between her surroundings and herself. 
“It’s an almost meditative process,” she said. “I love the feeling of being nude, running in the woods. It all feels so real and in the moment, being so close to nature.” 
Tomanova’s photographs are the first thing viewers see when entering the Museum of Sex’s current exhibition “NSFW: FEMALE GAZE,” comprised entirely of erotic work by emerging, female-identifying artists. In one photo, Tomanova stretches her legs behind her head as if mid-somersault, so her anus is exposed and greeting the heavens. Where one expects a head to be, there is only an ass. 
In the other, Tomanova’s spread-open crotch faces the viewer, juxtaposed with a backdrop of red, crumbling tree bark. Her ass and vagina are pictured so conspicuously they diverge from the cartoonish images of private parts we store in our heads, resembling abstract shapes with no precedent or frame of reference. 
“I saw lots of people giggling,” Tomanova said when describing the Museum of Sex opening. “You’re basically looking at my butthole, while surrounded by all these people. People are not sure how to react.” 
I noticed Tomanova at the opening, watching viewers as they looked at her work. Tall, lanky and pale with a shaved head, she stood out even among the crowd of eccentrically dressed women. She had on a sheer, white-collared shirt that would have been demure had her nipples not been entirely on view. 
Even amid the recent surge in artwork with a sex-positive and feminist bent, Tomanova’s work feels especially raw, strange and transgressive. “How nude is too nude?” she asked when describing the conversation surrounding her work. When does a woman’s naked body become too visible, too exposed, too close, too much? What happens when the covert desires of the male gaze are laid bare and served raw? 
These might be the questions that often arise as a result of Tomanova’s work, but they’re not quite the issues she’s concerned with. “When I’m in front of a camera, I try to capture my body in different positions and from all different angles. I’m interested in the shapes my body creates in nature. I’m not purposefully trying to show certain body parts or hide certain body parts.”
Tomanova described herself as shy growing up. The kind of timidness that prevented her from asking for help at the corner store when she was too small to reach the milk. For as long as she can remember, Tomanova loved to doodle. “Bees flying over a little pond, things like that,” she said. 
After graduating from the Czech equivalent of high school, Tomanova enrolled in art school, feeling art was the only thing she was good at. She studied painting and soon found herself one of the only women in a toxic and misogynistic environment. “I mostly painted myself and other women, and my work was always sexualized because it was always a man at the head of the classroom,” she recalled. 
Her work, Tomanova explained, has always been about identity more than sex. But the presence of naked women in her paintings immediately dispatched the conversation to, as Tomanova put it, “Oh, this is the girl painting cunts.” The fact that the most famous classical painters of all time explored the same subject matter was irrelevant. “Old masters were painting nude girls with their genitals exposed, why can’t I?”
Tomanova decided to leave the Czech art scene once and for all after she sought guidance from a male professor who obliged ― but only in exchange for sex. She moved to the states at 26, first landing in North Carolina before moving to New York. A relatively introverted person, Tomanova was rattled by her move across the world to a place where she knew no one. Formerly a painter, she began to photograph herself, both as a way to ward off feelings of loneliness and to preserve the person she used to be, now that she felt herself rapidly growing and changing. 
A huge influence of hers was the 2012 Francesca Woodman retrospective at the Guggenheim, featuring black-and-white self-portraits of the young photographer within various dilapidated domestic spaces. Like Tomanova’s, Woodman’s work becomes very much about the perceptions viewers thrust upon it.
Because they were created by a female photographer who committed suicide at 22 years old, Woodman’s photos are often interpreted as possessing a morbid desire to disappear, an exegesis the surviving family members who knew her intimately constantly dispel. Also like Tomanova, Woodman transforms her often unclothed body into something unfamiliar, a network of angles and shadows and blurs rather than a cohesive human subject. 
Tomanova fell in love with Woodman’s work immediately and soon took to photography as her primary medium. “My first works were about trying to get a hold of who I am in terms of how I look, what I feel, how I like to be seen, how I like to portray myself,” she said. “Eventually that moved toward nude photography.”
But for Tomanova, nudity doesn’t necessarily connote sexuality. “I think of the body as something that carries you through life,” she said. “That lets you move through this world, that makes your dreams come true. There should be no part of your body that is taboo, censored or cut out. Your whole body is your whole you.” 
When she crawls and somersaults and buries herself in the woods, Tomanova is not trying to push boundaries or shock viewers by framing her genitals front and center. She plays outside without clothes on and documents the experience without shame or censorship. “I’m not interested in being told how my body should be seen.” 
Tomanova’s work is on view now as part of “NSFW: FEMALE GAZE” on view now at the Museum of Sex in New York. 
Share this slide:
See more images from the MoSex exhibition below: 
Share this slide:
During a 2016 Comic Con panel, Marvel announced Roxane Gay’s “World of Wakanda,” the publisher’s first-ever series written by a black woman. The six-episode stint starred LGBTQ characters and coupled Gay’s clear-sighted writing with stylized depictions of strong women.
“Wakanda” was a spinoff of Ta-Nehisi Coates’ reissue of Marvel’s “Black Panther.” But in May, Coates announced that “Wakanda” ― as well as “Black Panther & the Crew,” a spinoff series of “Black Panther” he also authored ― would be canceled due to low sales.
“Sadly, the series was cancelled but I hope to revisit the characters,” Gay tweeted in June.
In a post explaining how these series managed to get axed in spite of their seeming success, Vox wrote that the distribution model for comic books can quell voices beyond the old guard. “Marvel [...] tends to lean into what those retailers want, producing more titles that feature A-list superheroes or that involve big events and crossovers, and culling titles featuring lesser-known characters that might not sell as well,” the outlet wrote.
Indie publishers, on the other hand, are more likely to prioritize inclusivity.
“We strive to publish meritorious, innovative work that traditional comics corporations, who deal almost exclusively in genre work, traditionally either don’t know exist or simply won’t touch,” Fantagraphics, an indie publisher whose titles include a robust slate of international works and the Eisner Award–nominated anthology “The Complete Wimmen’s Comix,” writes in its mission statement.
“Inclusivity is absolutely important and is achieved by actively seeking out and embracing voices that might otherwise not be heard if we didn’t provide them a platform,” Eric Reynolds, associate publisher of Fantagraphics, told HuffPost.
Dafna Pleban, an editor at another alternative comic publisher, BOOM! Studios, echoed this sentiment.
“I don’t think inclusivity can be achieved in one fell swoop.” she said. “I think it’s a process, and it’s something that we’re constantly working on to improve and grow. I think we can be better. Luckily, BOOM! Studios has been a place where they’ve encouraged us to reach out to creators that excite us and develop stories that inspire us, not just what we might think can sell now.”
Pleban cited “Lumberjanes,” an LGBTQ-friendly comic about five best friends at a summer camp beset with supernatural phenomena, as a title that might’ve been a “nonstarter” elsewhere, but one that she was encouraged to pursue.
Authors, in turn, have their reasons for preferring the indie route. Victor Lavalle, author of the novel The Changeling, worked with BOOM! Studios to publish an adaptation of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, in which a scientist grieves the loss of her son, who was shot by a cop.
“Though the Frankenstein story is often pitched as a cautionary tale about hubris, I think it’s also a story about wish fulfillment,” Lavalle told HuffPost. “If you could bring someone back from the dead, would you? I suppose it depends on the person. What if you were the mother of a murdered black boy. Would you do anything to bring him back? No matter the consequences? When I began to ask these questions I had the idea for my comic.”
Lavalle was originally approached by the publisher for a separate project ― an anthology based on Clive Barker’s horror film ”Hellraiser.” As a fan, Lavalle agreed. He enjoyed the experience and was asked to pitch future projects, so, when his Frankenstein comic was in the works, returning to BOOM! Studios was a no-brainer.
“As far as I know, the big companies like Marvel and DC don’t let you own your creations,” Lavalle said. “If they hire you then whatever you write remains theirs. This seems fair if it comes to one of their longstanding characters but not if I come up with something new and memorable.”
Of course, acclaim among indie readers doesn’t predict a shift in the mindset of big-league presses; as with women filmmakers who struggle to break into the big-budget range of blockbusters, comic book creators who aspire to Marvel-level success face roadblocks.
As Marvel’s Vice President of Sales David Gabriel recently said: “We saw the sales of any character that was diverse, any character that was new, our female characters, anything that was not a core Marvel character, people were turning their nose up against. That was difficult for us because we had a lot of fresh, new, exciting ideas that we were trying to get out and nothing new really worked.”
In the meantime, literary writers who ignore genre distinctions are carving out a space ― like Lavalle, “She-Hulk” writer Mariko Tamaki and “Faith” writer Jody Houser.
“You can’t overestimate the combination of visual storytelling and intellectual freedom,” Lavalle said. “Comics can bring you the universe. All for a couple of bucks. Can’t beat that.”
Clarification: Language in this story has been updated to clarify that a “Black Panther” spinoff series by Coates would be canceled, not the “Black Panther” title itself.
Share this slide:
A good beach read might be as ubiquitous a summer staple as sunscreen, but what makes a book a beach read is harder to define. Should it be fast-paced? High energy? Physically light? (Never mind emotionally ― tears are just salt water, anyway!)
True, the label can be used as condescendingly as “chick lit,” but what’s wrong with beach reading? The fact is, we’re all just looking for the right book to keep us turning pages instead of drowsing off on the sand this summer, and that’s a perfectly valid quest. In practice, it means something a little different for everyone, whether it’s a thriller, a romantic comedy, or a family saga, so we’ve come up with a range of new books that might make the perfect companion for your next day trip to the shore.
Bon voyage!
As the title hints, Basu’s debut hinges on a sudden burst of good luck; a middle-class East Delhi couple suddenly comes into a fortune. Meanwhile, their son has headed to New York for business school, where he’s fallen into a romantic entanglement he fears his parents can’t accept. As the family attempt to navigate their status as nouveau-riche Indians in a globalizing world, they find their life more destabilized than improved by their newfound riches. ― Claire Fallon
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Aside from his regular, intense nightmares, rare-book seller Apollo lives a charmed life with his wife Emma and their newborn son. When Emma disappears, Apollo journeys to find her, and the resulting story is both beautifully written and engaging. Like LaValle’s earlier books, The Devil in Silver and The Ecstatic, his latest is fairy tale–like and genre-bending ― a literary horror story. ― Maddie Crum
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
The joy and the pain of mature love meets the joy and the pain of puppy love in this light family drama. Single British mom Julia has fallen in love with American doctor James, also a single parent. Unfortunately, her daughter Gwen and his son Nathan don’t get along ― unless they’re getting along too well. Seem like a recipe for disaster? Yeah, it is. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
From the author of The Collective, Lonesome Lies Before Us is another story about thwarted ambition and revisiting youthful dreams. Alt-country musician Yadin Park never quite reached his potential, fame-wise; but it was his inability to work a crowd and to charm potential fans that did it, not a lack of talent. His collaborator, Mallory, was luckier, and when the two meet for the first time in years, Yadin is forced to consider what could have been. ― MC
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
The new psychological thriller from Hawkins, who wrote The Girl on the Train, has garnered mixed reviews. But if you liked her first, you’ll probably enjoy spending some vacation time with her new novel, which again blends an examination of historical suspicion of women’s sanity with a shocking mystery full of twists and turns. Plus, it will definitely inspire you to be careful around bodies of water. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
There’s been much ado lately about autofiction and the strengths of the storytelling form made popular by Karl Ove Knausgaard and his ilk. But Eve Babitz’s stories, published in the ’70s, draw heavily enough from her own life that reading her work feels like reading a deliberately crafted diary ― in the best way. Sex and Rage, her 1979 novel republished this summer, is, like much of Babitz’s work, about a heroine waffling between her love for L.A. and the listlessness that the city inspires. ― MC
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
BuzzFeed editor Shafrir tweaks the foibles of the modern tech scene in a farcical dramedy about tech journalists, startup CEOs and the rarified world they move in. It has the tone and relatable, glamorous characters of a romantic comedy ― but a girl-power twist that makes it so much more satisfying. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Libaire’s story of star-crossed lovers ― Elise and Jamey ― borrows its epigraph from none other than “Romeo and Juliet.” “Call me but love, and I’ll be new baptized,” it reads, “Henceforth I never will be Romeo.” So begins her novel about the tumult of young love, which takes readers from New Haven to the East Village, scored by ’80s rock hits. ― MC
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Meloy’s novel is about a family vacation that goes so horribly awry that it seems almost perverse to read it during your own beach holiday. But the central adventure, terrifying as it may be, makes for compelling reading, and you may not be able to stop turning the pages once you start. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Khong’s first novel begins with a striking image: The protagonist’s grandfather’s clothes have been flung haphazardly on trees throughout the neighborhood. It’s an act of defiance on his part; since he was diagnosed with Alzheimer’s, his family has worked to make his life orderly, writing his name on the tags of his shirts. Like much of the book ― which explores heroine Ruth’s relationship with her family and with her ex-fiance ― this sad scene is laced with wit. ― MC
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Kwan has made a huge splash with his novels about a ridiculously wealthy Chinese clan, of which Rich People Problems is the third. Rich People Problems centers on the family infighting and scheming that ensues when a family matriarch finds herself on her deathbed. With torrid romances, backbiting and jealousy, and conspicuous consumption on display, Kwan’s books are like taking a “Real Housewives” episode with you to the beach ― but better. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Looking for a sprawling, epic thriller to work your way through during a week by the pool? Bollen’s gritty new novel features all the hits: Murder, mysterious disappearances, webs of lies and heated summer flings. ― CF
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore.
Protestors across the country have adopted a new uniform.
It’s immediately recognizable to avid readers or fans of dystopian TV, yet perplexing to those unaware of its origins, easily thrown by its anachronistic vibes. Whether you know the name Offred or not, the getup ― seen in congresses across the United States over the past few months ― is arresting nonetheless: Red robes and white bonnets have become standard livery for activists in America.
Of course, the uniform harks back to The Handmaid’s Tale, Margaret Atwood’s chilling depiction of a future U.S. occupied by theocrats convinced that their survival hinges on an ability to control women’s bodies, recently adapted as a TV series on Hulu. In Gilead, powerless, fertile women are indentured servants, expected to endure regular sexual abuse in the name of procreation on a polluted planet. They live as handmaids, still attempting to come to terms with the bizarre political upheaval that’s slowly stripped them of their human rights.
In the 1980s, such a hellscape in real life seemed silly. Today, as a proposed GOP bill threatens to “decimate women’s healthcare,” and the realities of climate change continue to be contested, the improbability of Gilead has faded.
The Hulu series, led by showrunner Bruce Miller and star Elisabeth Moss, brought the likelihood of Handmaid’s Tale to contemporary attention. Fans of the book had long touted its relevancy, but once the show ― critically acclaimed, adored by fans ― hit the streaming service, its potency bubbled over. Miller’s Gilead, now set in present day with references to Tinder and weed and millennial feminism, was a graspable place. A place many American women were unwilling to go.
Handmaids have arrived at the Capitol. #StandWithPP pic.twitter.com/8pnohO8fbm
Handmaids are now circled around an anti-GOP healthcare plan rally that MoveOn, PP and others are kicking off pic.twitter.com/kEeBBZ3G5n
Handmaids at the Capitol.Just before breaking out in dance.(ht @TaylorLorenz) pic.twitter.com/e48csmHidp
Just this week, a group of activists dressed as handmaids marched on the Capitol building, protesting the GOP’s healthcare plan which, among other things, would leave millions of women uninsured, result in a likely spike in unintended pregnancies, and increase overall Medicaid spending on births. Written by 13 men, the bill would shirk the kinds of preventative care women in particular rely upon and notably roll back an Obama-era rule that requires insurance companies to cover contraception, as well as maternity care. Their red robes and white bonnets, on display in a place otherwise populated by men in suits, spoke volumes.
In May, when House Republicans voted through legislation that would repeal the Affordable Care Act (ACA), replacing it with a bill that suggested things like pregnancy, postpartum depression and rape would be considered pre-existing conditions, visions of “Handmaid’s Tale” flooded social media. “Live from the WH Rose Garden,” one woman tweeted alongside a still from the show, showing handmaids in those familiar red robes and white bonnets being corralled by emotionless armed men.
Before that, women had staged similar protests in capital cities across the U.S. They’d put on their robes and bonnets to stand up against legislature proposed in states like Texas, California, Ohio and Missouri. “Shame,” they’d yell, a word repeated throughout Atwood’s novel. In their stark red-and-white ensembles, the women demanding representatives and senators in their homestates rethink their stance on anti-abortion legislation were delivering a clear message: Your policies belong in Gilead, and we won’t stand for them.
“The easiest way we try to explain it is that the handmaids represent a future where women are nothing more than their reproductive capacity,” Heather Busby, executive director of NARAL Pro-Choice Texas told Mashable. “Unfortunately, with the laws that are being passed, that future is not so unrealistic and not so distant.” 
Live from the WH Rose Garden pic.twitter.com/ASW2prWXVa
2016 vs 2017 pic.twitter.com/bbxQdMoLIh
Instead of our bank account, they're taking away our health insurance; and you thought Handmaid's Tale was just a fictional story. #AHCA
Many have noted that as powerful a reference point as The Handmaid’s Tale might be, the U.S. is far from descending into Gilead-levels of injustice. Yet the robes and bonnets keep appearing, as those women ― exhausted by the cycle of threatening bills ― find continued utility in the pop culture phenomenon. Not only did women identify with the issues being discussed on-screen, they were able to take the show’s vision of a woman, oppressed but not without a will to fight, and turn it into a symbol of resistance in 2017.
The show, already set for a second season, had perhaps always been intended as a wake-up call of sorts, albeit one that was planned long before President Donald Trump, a man infamous for his sexual abuse-laced quotes, was elected. The book certainly was.
“The whole message that Margaret was sending in the book is that big changes like this don’t happen overnight, they happen very slowly over time, almost so that you don’t know that they’re happening until it’s too late,” “Handmaid’s Tale” director Reed Morano said. “We tend to be a little sheltered in America because of the rights that we do have and what we’ve all been used to. One of the things I liked about doing this story is that I thought maybe it will make people really appreciate what they have.”
In this case, it’s made people march. And that’s a lasting impact we shouldn’t ignore.
Welcome to Battleground, where art and activism meet.
Michael Bond ― creator of the beloved fictional character Paddington Bear ― has died at 91, according to his publisher, HarperCollins. He died at home after a short illness.
Bond said he was inspired to create the character after once spotting a stuffed bear at Paddington Station in London on Christmas Eve. Two years later, in 1958, the first installment of his series was published.
Paddington has since become an iconic children’s book character in the U.K. and beyond. His most notable attributes include a peculiar suitcase that can carry much more than it would seem, a puffy coat, a pair of specs and a penchant for politeness.
Bond’s books, which were published well into the aughts, were adapted into a BBC TV show and a Warner Bros. film. The Paddington series, translated into at least 40 languages, sold more than 35 million copies globally. Beyond Paddington, the author published over 200 titles for children over the course of his career, creating other beloved characters like a mouse called Thursday.
“I was happy reading, so in that sense I wasn’t lonely,” Bond once told The Sunday Telegraph of his childhood. “I think I’ve always had that feeling as a writer ― I’m never alone. You’ve got your characters and when you’re walking down the street, they’re with you in a funny kind of way. For instance, if I bumped into Paddington one day I wouldn’t be at all surprised. He feels very real to me, you see.”
Already, tributes to the bear and his creator are proliferating on Twitter. Stephen Fry wrote, “So sorry to hear that Michael Bond has departed. He was as kindly, dignified, charming & lovable as the immortal Paddington Bear he gave us.”
So sorry to hear that Michael Bond has departed. He was as kindly, dignified, charming & lovable as the immortal Paddington Bear he gave us
"In London everyone is different, and that means anyone can fit in" -Paddington Bear. RIP Michael Bond, and thank you 🐻💜 pic.twitter.com/t87pnX4Z2h
Sad to hear Michael Bond has died. Reminded of how he, as Paddington, spoke out against child detention. pic.twitter.com/4jX339vY4D
“I feel privileged to have been Michael Bond’s publisher ― he was a true gentleman, a bon viveur, the most entertaining company and the most enchanting of writers,” Ann-Janine Murtagh, executive publisher of HarperCollins children’s books, explained in a statement.
“He will be forever remembered for his creation of the iconic Paddington, with his duffle coat and wellington boots, which touched my own heart as a child and will live on in the hearts of future generations. My thoughts and love are with his wife, Sue, and his children, Karen and Anthony.”
We're remembering Michael Bond with gratitude here in the Bear House @NewbyHall with the original 1970sTV Paddington pic.twitter.com/YcnwBQmrh5
RIP Michael Bond - Thank you for all the marmalade sandwiches, Paddington stares and elevenses at Mr Gruber's bookshop. pic.twitter.com/jDdoCJLXhI
Farewell, Michael Bond. Love that your most famous character was an undocumented immigrant. May we be as generous as you in future.
Share this slide:
When musician and DJ Dave Barresi moved to Baltimore in the early aughts, he found a community of like-minded people at one of the city’s local video stores, Video Americain in Charles Village.
“Normal store exchanges and many repeat visits led to lasting and meaningful friendships and collaborations,” he told HuffPost in an interview.
Which was why, when Video Americain shuttered in 2014, he was among a crew of people who attempted to keep hold of its collection of VHS tapes and DVDs.
The Beyond Video Collective consists of seven cinephiles ― some of them filmmakers, some of them educators, others of them simply passionate about movies. Between them they’ve cobbled together a bevy of classic and hard-to-find films, which will be available at their soon-to-open store, Beyond Video.
“Movie-watching has become a much more solitary experience since the advent of laptops and digital streaming,” Barresi said. “Theater lobbies are still wonderful places for real-world social encounters and conversations, but video stores complement that experience by being available for customers to drop in and browse any time of day. They’re great when you’re feeling bored or brain-dead after a long day, but can also be exciting hubs for conversation and discovery.”
Barresi and his Beyond Video colleagues think fostering a community is among the several advantages to brick-and-mortar video stores.
Collective member and theater manager Greg Golinski echoed Barresi’s interest in stumbling upon lesser-known titles, or getting personalized assistance from a store member, rather than an algorithm. “But also random interactions,” he said. “‘What is the person in front of me renting or asking about? What movie are the clerks watching in the store?’”
He also voiced his concern that streaming services provide a limited selection, and seem increasingly interested in touting their own series, rather than distributing shows and movies old and new. 
“Streaming services can only offer you the movies they can negotiate the rights for,” Golinski said. “Titles come and go from these services as alliances and priorities shift. And do we have faith that as more of these services start pumping out their own product that they will still have the drive to invest in paying for the rights to a deep collection of existing titles?” 
Another member of Beyond Video, artist and educator Liz Donadio, added that streaming services are less likely to provide titles that appeal to viewers with specific interests, or from disenfranchised groups.
“Searching online definitely makes it harder to discover new and disenfranchised voices,” she said. “Many streaming services offer up the popular and mainstream, which leaves little room for anything outside of that realm.”
Conversely, Beyond Video’s collection will include 10,000 titles, highlighting the work of LGBTQ filmmakers, silent films, cult classics, and world cinema. 
For these reasons, the group decided to launch a Kickstarter campaign to fund the opening of a store in Baltimore, with a retro, black-and-white storefront designed by Post Typography. And, last week, it surpassed its $30,000 goal.
The interest taken in the store goes against the narrative proliferated after Blockbuster closed its remaining brick-and-mortar shops in 2013 – that in-person retail would uniformly be replaced by the conveniences of streaming.
Bookstores and record shops both lived beyond the death knell of physical products — especially independent stores catering to devoted fans, and patrons seeking out a space to search for and discuss buried gems. Its possible that video stores — with the potential to curate selections and provide experiences for attendees — could thrive again, too.
Share this slide:
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 22, 2017 at 1:16pm PDT
Lawmakers are currently targeting trans and gender-nonconforming youth with what have become known as “bathroom bills,” aimed at preventing people from using the public facilities that correspond with their gender identities.
But Generation Z ― the demographic a step below Millennials on the age scale ― is on the front lines of the fight to end gender-based discrimination for good. 
An initiative called Arts Not Parts, launched last week, hopes to resist ongoing attempts to police bathroom habits. The project uses a variety of handmade posters to advocate for the liberty and safety of gender-nonconforming youth ― and their right to use the damn bathroom without being monitored. 
According to Nylon, the campaign was founded by the Gen Z–run studio Irregular Labs and a teenage girl named Grey. The idea, as explained on the initiative’s website, is to “use creativity to combat contempt”:
Our hope is that Arts Not Parts serves as a reminder that we all have a choice to collectively say Hell No! to bigotry, hatred and intolerance. Neither your parents, your principal nor your president can take that away from you.”
Over 45 artists, organizations and activists submitted a poster to the cause, each in some way celebrating freedom, difference or the simple act of taking a piss. Participants include the musician Sia, photographer Cass Bird and artist Hunter Schafer.
Schafer, an 18-year-old high school student from North Carolina, has spoken out about the injustice of bathroom bills. “Every time I use a public bathroom, I have to make a choice,” she wrote for Teen Vogue. “Do I break the law, or do I disregard my comfort and face the risk of harassment and violence?”
All posters are currently available on the Arts Not Parts website for free download. Everyone is encouraged to print out their favorites and hang them up in any bathrooms they so choose, transforming potentially hostile environments into safer (and far better looking) spaces. 
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 23, 2017 at 7:45am PDT
Currently, 16 states across the U.S. pose a threat to the rights of transgender Americans.
Most prominently, North Carolina’s HB2, signed into law last year, banned people from using bathrooms that correspond with their gender identities. Although the controversial bill was technically repealed in March, the annulment does little to actually improve the lives of at-risk gender-nonconforming youth. The compromise signed into place when HB2 was repealed was swiftly and harshly criticized by LGBTQ groups for “doubling down on the discrimination that HB2 exacts,” as Chris Sgro, executive director of Equality NC, told HuffPost.
Next month, Texas and potentially Washington will attempt to pass similar measures of their own. Washington’s initiative I-1552 enforce the segregation of multi-stall restrooms in public schools by birth-assigned sex. Similarly, Texas’ bill would require Texans to use the public bathroom that corresponds to the gender listed on their birth certificate.
Alabama, Arkansas, Kansas, Kentucky, Minnesota, Montana, Missouri, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Virginia and Wyoming are also drafting laws to limit the rights of transgender individuals.
Take a look at some of the Arts Not Parts posters ready for download below:
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 23, 2017 at 6:21am PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 22, 2017 at 12:03pm PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 22, 2017 at 11:29am PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 21, 2017 at 1:22pm PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 21, 2017 at 10:16am PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 20, 2017 at 12:14pm PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 19, 2017 at 8:21am PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 18, 2017 at 9:25am PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 17, 2017 at 2:15pm PDT
A post shared by ArtsNotParts (@artsnotparts) on Jun 17, 2017 at 1:23pm PDT
CORRECTION: An earlier edition of this article mistakenly said Hunter Schafer was from Northern California. We regret the error. 
What would the children’s book world look like if “Harry Potter” had never popped into J.K. Rowling’s head, as she’s described it, fully formed? Hypotheticals are never easy, but a “Harry Potter”-less world ― well, that’s just about impossible to conceive.
By the same token, untangling Rowling’s influence from the greater arc of children’s literature over the past two decades is a fraught task. Her “Potter” saga inspired frenzied release parties, staggering numbers of pre-orders, millions of words of fan fiction and, as it stands now, nine feature films: It’s an easy assumption that this seminal series fundamentally changed middle-grade and YA fiction.
And it surely did. The market for these kinds of books, especially fantasy, exploded during the early aughts, as ”Harry Potter” took off. Not just lightweight series like “The Baby-Sitters Club” or one-offs like The Fault in Our Stars, either; publishers began offering kids blockbuster series like “The Hunger Games,” “Twilight,” and “Divergent.” Then again, plenty of authors were already offering well-crafted fantasy and realism for young readers. What can really be laid to Rowling’s account?
Twenty years after Harry first ventured into the world with the initial publication of Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone, we’re still wondering what the phenomenon has really meant for kids books and the publishing world at large, and where we would be without it. “Harry Potter” sparked a furor that seemed totally unprecedented in the world of children’s literature. The books themselves, though ― not much about them was totally unprecedented.
Aside from the whole magic aspect, tales of Hogwarts fall squarely into the beloved tradition of books about kids away at school. “Obviously it was building not on just fantasy but the boarding school books,” Peter Glassman, founder of the children’s bookshop Books of Wonder, told HuffPost. Tom Brown’s School Days, The Little Princess, Daddy-Long-Legs, Malory Towers and other boarding school books free up their youthful protagonists for adventure by separating them from parents and family obligations, placing them in a setting where their relationships with other children, and their round-the-clock hijinks, can take center stage.
The boarding school has proven to be a perfect setting for a fantasy novel throughout the past century. “The magical wizarding school had been done before,” pointed out Joe Monti, the editorial director of Saga Press and a longtime player in the children’s literature arena, in an email to HuffPost. He specifically praised Ursula K. Le Guin’s classic series “Earthsea” and Diana Wynne Jones’s “Chrestomanci” heptalogy, but it was a far more pervasive trope than we may realize in a post-“Potter” world. (Now, when you Google “wizarding school,” the featured snippet and nine of the 10 first-page results are specifically about Rowling’s fictional schools, which include Hogwarts and other non-British schools she has named, such as Beauxbatons and Ilvermorny. The 10th is the Wikipedia page for fictional wizarding schools, which prominently features the “Harry Potter” universe.)
Before Hogwarts, there were a number of wizarding schools that featured elements of Rowling’s hit. In Jane Yolen’s 1991 Wizard’s Hall, an 11-year-old boy named Henry finds himself learning spells in a magical school where paintings speak. Jill Murphy’s ”Worst Witch” series, originally begun in the 1970s, featured the inept Mildred Hubble, a student at Miss Cackle’s Academy for Witches, who has two well-meaning friends and one nasty, aristocratic rival. Tamora Pierce wrote her “Circle of Magic” quartet, which also first published in 1997, about four budding mages who find themselves at Winding Circle, a temple community, and study magic from expert dedicates who live there. Set against this backdrop, Hogwarts seems like just another note in a familiar tune.
In an email interview with HuffPost, Pierce noted that the wizarding school was just one of many tropes revisited by “Harry Potter.” “The field at the time,” she wrote, “already had kids struggling through tough lessons and unfair teachers; something weird going on at school; hateful step-parents; boy heroes marked for Destiny with kill-crazy enemies; boy heroes with a swell flubsy boy pal and a super-smart girl pal; boy heroes with kindly mentors; boy heroes with pets; boy hero surprisingly good at sports; boy heroes with super powers/magic/weapons; seemingly unkillable Big Bads with zillions of evil minions.”
Not that this should be the point. Rowling may have been the first fantasy author some kids read, or Hogwarts the first magical school some fell in love with ― but even if she wasn’t actually the first, so what? “No one is totally original,” said Glassman. “Everyone builds on everyone else’s stories. So originality isn’t the thing.”  
Besides, Pierce added, the world of Hogwarts did offer new delights. “Hidden school tunnels and rooms in which kids get into real trouble (Hogwarts is the most unsafe school ever!); a teacher who physically tortures the boy hero; consistent law-breaking and ‘justice served’ which corrects nothing at all,” she listed ― those, along with the sport of Quidditch, brought forward new, or at least newly popular, themes in children’s literature. 
In our overwhelming eagerness to fête J.K. Rowling, though, it’s worth taking time to explore the full universe of children’s fantasy and to appreciate not only her forebears but her contemporaries and those who followed in her footsteps. “I think sometimes what gets lost in the noise is the accomplishment of all those other writers,” Glassman said. “Yes, what [Rowling] did was phenomenal. But a lot of other writers are doing wonderful things ― and I sometimes feel like, hey, what about them? And the people who came before?”
Once Rowling ― whom Glassman said he’s heard described as “a publisher’s dream”; good-looking, adept at being interviewed in any format, and a gifted author ― swept onto the scene, it was quickly impossible for any other author to keep pace with her fame, influence and acclaim. Children’s book writers, especially fantasy authors, who were once the masters of their domain found themselves ignored in media coverage and discussions of ”Harry Potter.”
Pierce, who had been writing fantasy for teenagers for years by then, said she always made it “a point of pride never to be jealous of another author.” Still, she found that “the bare mention of Harry or his writer made me surly.” For writers who had been creating inventive, compelling fantasy works for young readers for years, it must have been at least a bit infuriating to see a new author sweep in and garner all the credit for introducing kids to the magic of reading, and reading about magic. Then, Pierce said, she, along with other with YA writers and experts, participated in a panel exclusively devoted to the popularity of the three then-published ”Harry Potter” books. What was the secret sauce?
“By the time the panel was over, I was free,” she recalled. “Nobody knew. No one there could point to a single factor that made the books popular.”
All of the elements that kids seemed to latch onto in the series had been done before, they concluded. Rowling hadn’t discovered some new formula or concept that had captured a starved population of readers ― she’d used known elements of children’s literature to write the right books at the right time for the right readers.
That doesn’t mean Rowling wasn’t exceptionally creative, from her absurdly delightful wizarding vocabulary to the complex seven-book-long mystery arc she crafted. In fact, her most massive creation might have been the current middle-grade and young adult fiction market. If we think of popular pre-Rowling authors as big fish in a small pond, they may now look like smaller fish in comparison ― but the pond has become a Great Lake.
The “Potter” craze, said Monti, “grew the market exponentially.” And when market demand grows, there are more opportunities for the people making the product ― in this case, that would be middle-grade and YA authors. ”Harry Potter,” he said, “made the careers of many authors possible.” With kids (and, yes, adults) clamoring for something to read in the long months and years between Rowling releases, publishers had a legitimate demand to meet: Fantasy sagas geared toward younger readers, and ultimately any sort of fiction written for middle-grade and young adult readers.
“When ‘HP’ first hit [the U.S.] in ’98, it certainly made an impact,” said Glassman. In his iconic children’s store, Books of Wonder, he noticed that “people were looking for books like that, because there was nothing else ... we were selling a lot of Lloyd Alexander, E. Nesbit, obviously the “Narnia” books, The Hobbit, L.M. Boston.” Meanwhile, the publishing industry’s gears were turning. It takes a couple of years, Glassman pointed out, to jump on a new, unexpected publishing trend. Editors and agents have to find people writing similar books, acquire them, edit them and publish them, none of which can be accomplished overnight. 
Eventually, though, it wasn’t just classics that were benefiting from the “Potter” mania. New authors were getting opportunities, too. Over the ensuing years, the sheer amount of books published for kids seems to have ballooned; in 2011, The Atlantic reported that the number of YA books had increased by a factor of 10 between 1997 and 2009. Those precise numbers have been disputed, but it’s not the only statistic. Year after year, annual sales statistics show that rising demand for children’s books is bolstering the entire publishing industry.
Though realist writers like John Green have also flourished in ”Harry Potter’s” wake, the effect seems to have been particularly powerful for genre writers. Gail Carson Levine, the Newbery Award–winning author of middle-grade fantasy tales, recalled that when she began paying close attention to the market in the 1990s, most books for younger readers were general fiction. After ”Harry Potter,” which debuted in the U.K. the same year that Carson Levine published her beloved fairy tale novel Ella Enchanted, she noticed that “there came to be more fantasy. It was very good for fantasy because it was a market that people knew existed.”
Glassman noted that some of the books that followed in Harry’s footsteps may have been purely imitative, but the enduring demand the series had uncovered for fantasy in young readers allowed creativity in the genre to flourish. Books came out by fantasy authors who were encouraged by the Potter success, authors who might have thought to themselves, “I always wanted to write like that but didn’t think I could sell them,” he said.
It’s easy to forget, Monti explained, “really how disparaged fantasy was, as a genre, in children’s and YA literature — a bias that crossed into adult as well. The fact that ‘Harry Potter’ midnight release parties were the event to go to as a teen was completely unprecedented in geek culture. You can draw a dotted line to the mainstreaming of geek culture through ‘Harry Potter.’”  
Pierce, who was already publishing high fantasy chronicles for teenagers when the ”Potter” craze struck, applauded this change. “Speaking as someone who was trashed to the dogs and back for reading ‘that junk’ and writing it,” she said, “I am pleased about this.”
“It wasn’t a fad; we’re not going back,” Monti said. “Fantasy is mainstream.”
Actually, ”Harry Potter” combined several qualities that publishers previously thought didn’t appeal much to kids: The somewhat nerdy genre of fantasy, extremely thick books, and a long series with an overarching narrative arc that demanded you start at the beginning and read the whole way through. All of these things may have existed in middle-grade and YA markets before “Potter,” but the conventional wisdom was that they were liabilities or ill-suited for the age group.
Carson Levine was, she says now, “astonished” at “how long [′Harry Potter’] was and how willing kids were to read that length. When I started, I was told at children’s book conferences that you had to stay under 200 pages.” Though she admits she didn’t stay under that target, the industry expectation was clear.
Pierce reiterated that the “most major” impact of ”Harry Potter” success was that it convinced people that kids would read longer books. “I would have thought that the popularity of Brian Jacques’ ′Redwall’ books, beginning in the mid-1980s, would have convinced publishers kids wanted longer books, but it took ′Harry Potter,’” she said.
Middle-grade and YA were once dominated by one-off books and by episodic series that seemed to have no beginning or end ― “Nancy Drew,” “Sweet Valley High,” “Baby-Sitters Club.” With the demand for Potter-esque franchises, Carson Levine pointed out, came an embrace of a different sort of YA brand. No longer did publishers assume that kids didn’t have the patience or attention span for a single quest split across two or more books. Grandiose sagas for kids with “that very big story arc,” Carson Levine said ― “Hunger Games,” “Twilight,” “Divergent,” “The Red Queen” ― became popular.
“Harry Potter” also did something both necessary, because of its length and massive fanbase, and risky, because it makes it difficult for new readers to binge-read the whole series. It began as a middle-grade series, then grew steadily darker, longer and more challenging. By the time Deathly Hallows, the final book in the series, published, the series had clearly leveled up to young adults. The themes of budding sexuality, battlefields strewn with fatalities and ultimate self-sacrifice seem geared more toward teenagers than toward 10-year-olds. Of course, the series’ initial fans got to grow up with the books and see out the mystery that had hooked them from the beginning. But it’s a tricky model for children’s literature; whereas you can read as many “Baby-Sitters Club” books as you like for as long as you are in the target age range and then stop, a saga like ”Harry Potter” that evolves to span multiple age ranges makes it more challenging for anyone to read the entire series within one year.
Despite the challenges posed by Harry’s, and the “Harry Potter” books’, coming of age, Jonathan Alexander, Chancellor’s Professor of English at the University of California, Irvine, sees it as one of the series’ most powerful draws. “You don’t get a lot of those series such that the readers are growing up with the characters,” he pointed out. There is precedent, of course; he cited Anne of Green Gables, which was published over 100 years ago, and follows a spunky orphan from childhood into adulthood. Stories about young people who come of age over the course of the work have often, historically, been popular ― they’ve just been marketed toward adults. Even the serialized nature of the bildungsroman arc isn’t new. “It’s not at all dissimilar from David Copperfield, in which Dickens lays out [...] the story of David Copperfield that you could follow over time, and watch him develop to adulthood,” he said. “That was pitched primarily to adults.”
Alexander argued that there’s a universal fascination with growing up, even though books specifically about young people are typically viewed as best suited for kids. “I think we’re fascinated by the development process,” he said. “It’s not just for young readers to have a model, but for older readers themselves to meditate on how we grow up.” No wonder, then, that the ”Potter” books found an eager adult audience. As the series evolved, it became more and more similar to books that have, in the past, been marketed to grown-ups: stories of young people learning to make their way in a frightening and unpredictable world. The post-”Potter” Y.A. world, Alexander suggested, has skewed more toward the sort of sophisticated, complex coming-of-age novels that have always appealed to adults ― and adults and young adults alike are devouring them.
A healthy portion of the new popularity of young adult fiction can be attributed to these enthusiastic adult readers, but it seems that the ”Harry Potter” phenomenon has also reinvigorated reading among young people. In 2011, McSweeney’s noted that according to the NEA, between 1982 and 2002, the number of young adults who read literature had dropped by 20 percent. In 2009, the NEA found that this stat had rebounded ― between 2002 and 2008, young adult readership had risen 21 percent.
Numbers can be tricky, though. We simply don’t know for sure how much of this increase can be directly traced to “Harry Potter.” Much like Harry himself ― an exceptional hero whose victory over dark magic likely depended on a host of less-famous heroes, from Hermione and Ron to Neville Longbottom and Mrs. Weasley ― the books are often singled out as the sole savior of YA, but it’s unlikely they alone built the bountiful children’s literary landscape we have today. Perhaps the children’s book world was waiting for a savior, and Rowling just happened to arrive with the sword of Gryffindor. Perhaps the “Potter” phenomenon merely accelerated an inevitable growth in the sector. 
With a healthy and thriving middle-grade and YA market, chances are we’ll never again see something like “Harry Potter”: A children’s book saga that captures the imagination of the entire world and leaves us forever changed. Inside the YA world, authors and professionals who spoke to HuffPost said people aren’t expecting to find another “Harry Potter.” Superstars, pointed out Glassman, come from specific circumstances. “Babe Ruth was just the right time to be the legend he was,” he explained — and so was Rowling. “There’s never going to be another J.K. Rowling,” Glassman said. 
Instead, today’s YA authors are playing inside a much larger sandbox, working for a known audience and pushing boundaries in other ways. “We’re finally publishing more fantasy — and especially science fiction —from voices that have been marginalized in the past,” said Monti. In Rowling’s books, and in many past fantasy hits, the main characters were white, straight, cisgender and able-bodied. Though the literary world remains far too white, authors like Sabaa Tahir (An Ember in the Ashes), Ellen Oh (Prophecy), and general fiction writer Angie Thomas (The Hate U Give) have begun to make inroads with more diverse protagonists. ”This pattern needs to keep growing,” Monti said, “because the idea that LGBTQ and brown kids don’t read or sell is a rear window view.”
“Harry Potter” blew the roof off of children’s literature. But that doesn’t mean the work is done — for YA authors, it just means more scope for the imagination.
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
Share this slide:
Hippogriffs and centaurs, veela and grindylows, unicorns and basilisks ― thanks to J.K. Rowling and “Harry Potter,” mythical beasts like these have become familiar to millions. When he discovers he’s a wizard, Harry is swept off to a school where he learns about these fantastical creatures, as well as magical herbs and powerful potions gleaned from old scrolls of parchment and a library packed with yellowing old books.
But Rowling didn’t originally invent most of the magical beings and blooms in her books. Yes, centaurs and unicorns have had long mythological lives, but so have hippogriffs, veela, grindylows and basilisks; for ”Harry Potter,” she created her own versions of mystical flora and fauna that have been speculated about for centuries.
That means those moldering encyclopedias filled with magical creatures and herbs are real ― well, sort of ― and even us Muggles can curl up at a library with instructions for turning lead into gold or uprooting a mandrake without being tormented by its humanoid shriek.  
Not that we all have easy access to a trove of old alchemy texts, of course. Fortunately, the New York Academy of Medicine has come to the rescue: In celebration of the 20th anniversary of “Harry Potter,” they’ve compiled a digital collection of mythical texts found in their own collection that seem to be straight out of the Hogwarts library. 
Curator Anne Garner organized the exhibition after noticing that the library’s rare books collection included centuries-old texts on botany, medicine, zoology and even magic that were as fantastical as the subjects studied by Harry and his pals at Hogwarts. “J.K. Rowling’s beloved ‘Harry Potter’ series incorporates many of the stories and superstitions from early scientific writers eager to understand the natural world,” she said in a statement.
The collection includes supposedly scientific descriptions and ink drawings of creatures like merpeople, and plants like mandrakes, complete with little humans (male and female) at the root. Many of these fabled beings were documented, for centuries, alongside real living things like snakes and owls, Garner says. Though the natural historians clearly, and sometimes admittedly, hadn’t seen basilisks or phoenixes, they relied on secondhand description and word of mouth to attempt a thorough, reliable depiction.
It’s not just texts, either ― remember when Harry saved Ron’s life from a fatal poison by shoving a bezoar down his throat? The Academy has a real bezoar, a stony hairball often found in the stomach of a ruminant (theirs is from a cow), and it was indeed believed to be an antidote to poisons.
Check out a selection of the magical texts below, and head to the NYAM website to explore the whole collection.
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
Broadway’s theatrical adaptation of George Orwell’s dystopian classic 1984 is not holding back on bringing the book’s graphic descriptions of violence and torture to the stage. Squeamish viewers may want to steer clear of the production ― or at least bring a barf bag. 
The play has led multiple audience members to vomit, pass out and, perhaps most strangely, get in fights as a result of its explicit horror, according to The Hollywood Reporter.
As most high school graduates know, 1984 takes place in a dystopian future where a totalitarian government ― called The Party and run by an elusive figure known as Big Brother ― controls the population by suppressing free speech, personal expression, individuality and sexuality. Brainwashing, propaganda and constant surveillance are employed to keep citizens in line. 
The book skyrocketed in sales following President Donald Trump’s inauguration ― specifically after Kellyanne Conway coined the phrase “alternative facts” to describe falsehoods.
Co-written and co-directed by Robert Icke and Duncan Macmillan, the staged production stars Tom Sturridge as Winston Smith, the Ministry of Truth employee who disobeys Party rules by beginning an affair with a woman named Julia, played by Olivia Wilde. 
The most disturbing scene in the production takes place when Winston is detained by Big Brother for his transgressions against The Party, which allows him to be tortured in Room 101 in an attempt to break his spirit of rebellion.
Winston finally crumbles when a cage of rats is strapped onto his head, poised to consume his face. But even before the rats enter the picture, Winston is brutally beaten inside a sterile white box as piercing strobe lights and the screaming sounds of a jackhammer escalate the intensity. When he is electrocuted, Winston faces the audience and accuses them of being complicit in his suffering.
“The torture scenes are visceral, ghastly, and hair-raisingly vivid,” Christopher Bonanos described in a critique for Vulture. “Blood is spattered and spit out; at least one beating about the face, occasioned by one awful command, ‘teeth,’ had a large part of the audience flinching.”
Since the production’s preview run in London earlier this year, audience members have been reacting strongly to the scenes. According to The Washington Post, “several audience members fainted and others vomited” in London. Police were called to break up a fight at one performance and, at others, “audience members yelled at the actors, begging them to stop,” the outlet notes.
Yet Icke and Macmillan had no intention of dialing the carnage back for the play’s Broadway debut. (Someone fainted during opening night.) 
“We’re not trying to be willfully assaultive or exploitatively shock people,” Macmillan told The Hollywood Reporter, “but there’s nothing here or in the disturbing novel that isn’t happening right now, somewhere around the world: People are being detained without trial, tortured and executed. We can sanitize that and make people feel comforted, or we can simply present it without commentary and allow it to speak for itself.”
Icke added: “You can stay and watch or you can leave — that’s a perfectly fine reaction to watching someone be tortured. But if this show is the most upsetting part of anyone’s day, they’re not reading the news headlines. Things are much worse than a piece of theater getting under your skin a little bit.”
The play does come with a trigger warning and an age limit, warning viewers about the “flashing lights, strobe effects, loud noises, gunshots, smoking and graphic depictions of violence and torture” in store. Children under 14 years old are advised not to attend. 
“1984” runs through Sept. 30 at the Hudson Theatre in New York. Bring your own barf bag. 
Share this slide:
Warning: spoilers ahead!
Because Season 1 of “The Handmaid’s Tale” ended in the same way as its source material ― with its heroic central handmaid Offred being escorted out of her assigned home, either by the corrupt government or by the burgeoning resistance group ― Season 2 seems shrouded in mystery.
We have a few predictions: Offred (Elisabeth Moss) will visit the environmentally toxic colonies; she’ll stray further from her husband, Luke, before they’re reunited.
On Thursday, Hollywood Reporter shared news that sheds light on next season’s plans: Alexis Bledel, who plays Offred’s confident Ofglen, will return for at least one more go-around.
At the end of last season, Ofglen was presumed dead ― at least by Offred, who witnessed her attempt to steal a car in the middle of a farmer’s market. Before that, Ofglen was mutilated by Gilead officials, punished for her sexual orientation.
So, what does the return of Ofglen mean for Season 2? It could be that Ofglen is actually a member of the resistance, an underground group that Offred will learn more about in coming episodes.
In Atwood’s 1985 novel, the story stays close in on Offred and her small attempts to find joy in language and the quiet details of the world, as well as her memories. It’s effective, but perhaps not enough fodder for a multi-season drama. So, showrunner Bruce Miller has said that he’ll deviate from the book, while staying true to its spirit and intentions.
Share this slide:
“Where else would you go other than Alan Rickman?”
That’s how “Harry Potter” casting director Janet Hirshenson put it when asked about the actors considered for the role of Severus Snape in the “Harry Potter” film franchise. Hirshenson joined the production after another casting director had worked on the movies for a year and said Rickman was already locked in at the time. She had no argument.
“I don’t know if that was the first initial one they reached out to or not but ... it was Alan Rickman,” she said.
Today, we’re more than a year removed from losing our favorite Potions Master. Rickman died in January 2016 at the age of 69 after a battle with cancer. The actor has an assortment of iconic roles under his belt, but “Harry Potter” fans know him best as the complicated and polarizing Professor Snape. His co-workers on the films, however, simply remember him as a remarkable person, a man who even once made an extremely sick child’s dream come true.
It’s been 20 years since the “Harry Potter” book series debuted, and debate over its characters still rages on ― particularly over Rickman’s character, Snape. Is he a Half-Blood hero? Is he The Jerk Who Lived? Even J.K. Rowling has struggled with how to bring him up without causing a brouhaha (or in honor of witches, a brew-haha?).
Been wondering how to mark Snape's birthday without starting an argument. Here's to him, the big hero/bully. He really was the best/worst.
As Daniel Radcliffe, Emma Watson and Rupert Grint grew and changed during the films, Rickman’s controversial character remained an unwavering staple, even down to his wardrobe.
Costume designer Jany Temime instituted major wardrobe changes when she joined the franchise in the third film, “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.” For proof, just check out Professor Filius Flitwick’s changing looks. However, Snape’s outfit remained largely the same.
Temime told HuffPost, “When I arrived on [film] No. 3, I looked at all the costumes, and the only costume I kept was the costume of Snape, which I thought was perfect. I thought it was exactly Snape. We remade a cape ― we made a cape bigger. But I liked how tight it was. And also, Alan Rickman loved it. He loved it.”
The costumer did admit there was one small alteration.
“The only thing we did is that every time Alan Rickman was going to holidays in Tuscany and coming back with two or three extra kilos, we made it bigger without telling him. That’s the only thing we did, but it was the same costume,” she said.
Snape’s signature black robes had an ominous presence that the actor himself noticed. 
“As soon as I put that costume on something happens. You can’t be someone else inside that outline. It has an effect on me,” Rickman once said of the outfit. 
It had an effect on the other actors, too.
Oliver Phelps, who played George Weasley in the films, told HuffPost, “I was intimidated by him, I think, just because you’re looking at this guy in a big cloak and everything.”
Snape’s formidable presence on set is a testament to Rickman’s talent for embodying a role as if he’d taken Polyjuice Potion for it. Once you got past that frightening facade, you’d find a person who was “really funny, and self-deprecating and kind of wonderful company,” as Daniel Radcliffe put it during a past conversation with Rowling.
Besides being a delightful person, Rickman staunchly supported his co-stars on and off the set. Radcliffe told Rowling that Rickman cut a vacation short to see the Boy Wizard perform in the play “Equus,” and Phelps told us he once received acting advice from Rickman after giving him a lesson on MP3 players.
“I remember he’d just come back from an award ceremony, and they had given him an iPod, and he wanted to know how to work it. I was showing him how to do that, [and] on the same token I was sneaking in the, ‘You know, in this scene I’ve got coming up here, how would you [do it]?’ He was brilliant to actually give advice for it, and I was only about a 17-year-old kid at the time, but [Alan] was very to the point with me about it, which was cool,” said Phelps.
Perhaps the most memorable Rickman story comes from producer Paula DuPré Pesmen.
The producer worked on the first three “Harry Potter” films, and also took it upon herself to be the point person for organizing set visits for terminally sick children. This would later lead her to leave movie producing and start There With Care, an organization that helps provide fundamental services to families with children facing serious illnesses.
DuPré Pesmen told us the entire cast was “so gracious” during the children’s visits.
“Dan, Rupert and Emma, and Tom Felton and Devon Murray, especially those kids, when I would have sick children with me on the set they would come straight up to me and start engaging with these kids and take photos with them and ask, ‘What’ve they seen so far? What was their favorite part of the film? What was their favorite part of the day?’”
She reminisced about a number of touching memories from the set visits, including a time a young boy got to help direct a scene with Radcliffe in “Chamber of Secrets.” After the scene, the boy ran up to Radcliffe, threw his arms around him and said, “I love you, Harry.”
“All of us were in tears, the director [Chris Columbus], the cast, the crew, we were all tearing up. But it was such a beautiful moment, and Dan was so sweet with him. That’s the purity of ‘Harry Potter.’”
One of the most memorable visits comes from a boy named Jay.
Jay, a child diagnosed with Stage 4 neuroblastoma, was excited to visit the set, “But what he really wanted was to be in the film, not just visiting,” DuPré Pesmen added.
“I said, ‘Well, we can’t really do that, and you’re already here.’ Alan [Rickman] came over and introduced himself to Jay, and Jay was so happy to meet him. He was really knowledgeable. He was about 15 at the time, and he knew a lot about Alan’s other films, and Jay mentioned to Alan that what he really wanted to do was be in the film.”
Then, something magical happened.
“Alan looked at me, and he kind of went into his Snape-mode in costume, and said, ‘Why isn’t this child in the film?’” recalled DuPré Pesman. “Everyone had a good laugh, and Alan took him by the hand and put him into the crowd of kids as they were panning across. The back of him is actually in a shot.”
The producer told us the moment happened in Remus Lupin’s Boggart class during “Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.”
“Alan put him in, and it was from the back of the classroom looking over the backs of the kids,” she said.
Though Jay’s shot apparently wasn’t included in the final cut of the film, DuPré Pesmen said he was thrilled.
“[Jay] was very happy that Alan did that for him,” she told us.
Sadly, like Rickman, Jay succumbed to cancer. He died in 2005. DuPré Pesmen credits Jay as one of the founders of There With Care, and if you’re wondering, he did actually end up in another movie.
The producer said she and Chris Columbus pulled Jay out of the hospital for a few hours one day and put him in a scene from “Rent,” which Columbus directed.
Jay may have not been in the final cut of “Prisoner of Azkaban,” but the producer said, ”[Jay] was there. He had a moment,” thanks to Alan Rickman.
Whatever you think of Snape, there’s no denying the character of the man behind the black cape.
So do we miss Alan Rickman? Even after all this time?
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
Additional reporting by Katherine Brooks. 
For more on There With Care:
Share this slide:
Summer is an ideal time for podcast listening, I think. The weather’s nice, which makes for plenty of opportunities for a long stroll while chugging through your audio playlist. You’ll likely do some traveling, which generally involves hours of dullness as you soar down the highway or through the sky. A favorite show could accompany you as you stretch out on a blanket, sunglasses donned, thinking about how chill life is.
All of these podcast-listening opportunities obviously need podcasts to go along with them. If your regular-rotation shows aren’t quite doing it for you, or you just want some new voices in your earbuds, try one — or all! — of these 11 quality shows. 
If you already love Aminatou Sow from the popular “Call Your Girlfriend” podcast, add this one to your lineup. “On She Goes” focuses on travel stories and advice for women of color, in order to both empower and serve as a practical resource. Even if travel plans aren’t in your immediate future, the stories Sow highlights will inspire your sense of adventure.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or SoundCloud.
It’s “Shark Tank”’s world, and we’re just living in it. Fans of the ABC show, or recent readers of Doree Shafrir’s Startup, will dig these two entrepreneur-minded shows. “The Pitch,” from Gimlet, follows a business founder hoping to get funding in each episode. The concept for “Pitch Makeover” is pretty straightforward: It’s like a fashion makeover, but for business pitches. In each episode, the hosts listen to an entrepreneur give their elevator pitch and offer thoughtful critiques on what to highlight and what to skip.
Listen to “The Pitch” on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
Listen to “Pitch Makeover” on Apple Podcasts or PlayerFM.
Come to WNYC’s “Nancy” for the thought-provoking and heartfelt stories about the LGBTQ experience, stay for the hosts Kathy Tu and Tobin Low, who provide hilarious and lovable banter at the top of each episode. We recommend you start at the beginning: In Episode 1, Tobin and Kathy get their moms on the phone to discuss coming out, and it’s heartwarming and -breaking in equal measures.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
Chances are you’ve uttered a curse word or two in the last 24 hours, but have you stopped to think about why we use obscenities the way we do? This new linguistics show brings you close-up with people who have thought way more about “shit” and “fuck” and their many uses than you have. There’s only one episode out so far, but it will give you a new appreciation for any lovable foul mouth who crosses your path.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
As an avid reader, I am 100 percent the target audience for this kind of podcast, a new addition to the bookish internet. The two hosts discuss ways to read better with each episode. So far, they’ve discussed how to break out of a reading slump and how to cut through the new arrivals to find a book you’ll love. They also share what they’re reading — Borne by Jeff VanderMeer and Lincoln in the Bardo by George Saunders were two titles mentioned — so you’ll get ideas for your next library trip.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Maximum Fun.
It was only a matter of time before the podcast world got a smart, compelling show about none other than marijuana, and “Longform” podcast co-host Aaron Lammer is the one behind it. Lammer chats with filmmakers and musicians alongside scientists and activists about the changing shape of weed in America. It’s a compelling new addition whether you puff or pass.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
“Terrestrial”
While we often hear about climate change on a larger scale, what does it mean when it comes down to the individual? Ashley Ahearn ponders that question by going around the U.S. to learn personal stories that come from a changing environment. In the few episodes already released, she covers eco-anxiety, composting one’s body and the ethics of having children in the midst of global warming. A recent review on iTunes called the podcast a blend of “Radiolab” and “Planet Money,” which feels right — an informative show in a sound-rich and powerful audioscape.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
This is one podcast that’s undeniably unique in its premise. Earlonne Woods, Antwan Williams and Nigel Poor work to put together a podcast — all from within San Quentin State Prison. Both Woods, a co-host and -producer, and Williams, the sound designer, are serving out yearslong sentences, while Poor is a visual artist who works with incarcerated individuals. The glut of prison-centric shows (“Prison Break,” “Orange Is the New Black”) proves there’s an audience who wants to hear what goes on behind bars, and “Ear Hustle” aims to share real-life stories of what it’s like.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
Philosophy is a topic that can feel inaccessible to some. That’s not the case for this podcast, hosted by Vassar philosophy professor Barry Lam, which extrapolates philosophical inquires from real-life situations. In the first season, Lam explores the philosophy of war, religion, parapsychology (think: ESP and clairvoyance) and more, first approaching each big question with a relatable anecdote and going from there.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher. 
There’s a whole subgenre of podcasts meant to make you feel just a little bit smarter, or at least have a tidbit or two to share about face mites or computer security at parties. “Part-time Genius” from HowStuffWorks is an enjoyable addition to the list. So far, the hosts have explored questions worthy of Reddit’s ShowerThoughts community with humor, history and insight: How much sleep humans really need, the curious runaway success of Ayn Rand and whether it’s possible to be too clean are just some of the topics covered thus far.
Listen on Apple Podcasts or Stitcher.
Psst! HuffPost has some great podcasts of our own. Feel free to check out the new “IVFML,” about a couple trying to conceive, or our “Bachelor” franchise recap show, “Here to Make Friends.”
The Public Theater’s production of Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar” featuring a Donald Trump-like lead has closed, but the controversy circling the play remains. 
According to The Associated Press, police are currently investigating threats made to the wife of the play’s artistic director, Oskar Eustis. Eustis’ wife filed a complaint on June 9 about threatening phone messages she received. One caller, the AP reports, said he or she “wanted her to die after saying her husband wants the Republican president to die.”
The production, which ran last week as part of the annual free Shakespeare in the Park festival held in Central Park, incensed critics with a Julius Caesar character bearing strong physical similarities to Trump. As a result, some alleged that the play’s iconic scene ― during which Caesar is assassinated ― sanctioned or even encouraged violence against the president of the United States. 
However, anyone who has actually seen or read the 400-year-old play ― or listened to director Eustis speak on the matter ― knows that it unequivocally denounces political violence of all kinds. Shakespeare’s message strongly warns that democracy can only be upheld through democratic means, casting Caesar’s stabbing as an illegitimate act of misguided patriotism. As Eustis summarized to The New York Times: “This production is horrified at his murder.”
Nonetheless, anger surrounding the play has escalated over the past weeks, climaxing when rightwing protesters interrupted a performance last Friday, one storming the stage and another standing up amid the crowd to scream “You are Nazis.”
Sadly, Eustis’ wife is not the only individual to be threatened as a result of the theatrical dispute. Other Shakespeare theater companies around the nation, completely unattached to The Public’s production, have been mistakenly targeted. 
Stephen Burdman, artistic director at New York Classical Theatre, described some of the “hateful emails” the company received. “Every arts organization gets critical correspondence,” he told HuffPost. “But normally, they are very well crafted and certainly not vitriolic or threatening. These were outrageously threatening, lots of ‘you should die’ and lots of expletives. Once they started threatening families I didn’t even want to share them with my wife.” 
Burdman is not alone in receiving disturbing messages intended for The Public. Last week the Washington Post reached out to Massachusetts’ Shakespeare & Company, which, perhaps due to its domain name Shakespeare.org, was also the target of threats. One read: “F— you, hope you all who did this play about Trump are the first do die when ISIS COMES TO YOU f—– sumbags [sic].”
Artists around the world have expressed their support for the play, stressing the importance of free expression and political theater. The Public released a statement last week, declaring it stands by its production:
We recognize that our interpretation of the play has provoked heated discussion; audiences, sponsors and supporters have expressed varying viewpoints and opinions. Such discussion is exactly the goal of our civically-engaged theater; this discourse is the basis of a healthy democracy.
Our production of “Julius Caesar” in no way advocates violence towards anyone. Shakespeare’s play, and our production, make the opposite point: those who attempt to defend democracy by undemocratic means pay a terrible price and destroy the very thing they are fighting to save. For over 400 years, Shakespeare’s play has told this story and we are proud to be telling it again in Central Park.
There is something painfully ironic about unleashing violent threats to protest what is perceived by some as an endorsement for violence. Hopefully now that the production has finished its run, the vicious and often misplaced attacks on members of the theater community and their family will come to an end.   
It is difficult to roam the streets of New York City on foot without encountering a larger-than-life advertisement against your will. Images of airbrushed models aimed at exploiting the desires and insecurities of passersby are as omnipresent as traffic lights, silently nudging women and men to believe that pesky voice in the back of their heads saying you are not enough. 
Beginning June 26, however, some of the billboards around NYC will swap out their traditional promotional materials for some freshly squeezed feminist art. The summer initiative, entitled “The Future is Female,” was organized by nonprofit organization SaveArtSpace, which frequently transforms advertising spaces into impromptu sites of public art. 
SaveArtSpace, co-founded by Justin Aversano and Travis Rix, is intended to transform the city of New York into an “urban gallery experience,” inspiring the next generation of young artists in the process. Through a string of exhibitions in New York, Los Angeles and Miami, Aversano and Rix are putting some pressure on the art world’s insular walls, inviting all citizens to taste challenging and engaging art as part of their daily lives and routines. 
And this particular NYC exhibition features a full roster of women artists.
“We are buried in a consumption-focused society,” Marie Tomanova, one of five women who curated the program, told HuffPost in an email. “And my wish is to have more art than advertisements in public spaces, art that will elevate your soul, inspire you to dream and encourage you to think.”
“When selecting works for ‘The Future Is Female’ I was looking for works with immediate power, celebrating ALL women,” she continued. “Women who are fierce, loving, brave and unstoppable, tough and sometimes fragile, daring, dreaming, creating, women who are vulnerable but always embracing, women who are powerful!”
One such woman is artist Elise Peterson, whose piece “Grace Meets Matisse” injects a photographic image of Grace Jones into Henri Matisse’s 1910 “Dance,” placing her in the center of a ring of naked dancers. The image puts Jones’ black body into an image previously filled with white bodies, juxtaposing the flesh of the painted figures with the three-dimensional glow of Jones’ self-actualized body, mid-performance. 
In another piece, titled “Boudoir,” photographer Lissa Rivera captures her muse and lover BJ wearing a robe and tights as he lounges, odalisque-like, on an emerald-draped cushion. A mysterious, gloved hand juts into the frame to brush his hair. In her series “Beautiful Boy” Rivera captures BJ in a variety of sensual, cinematic poses that riff off and subvert gender norms in and outside of the photographic tradition. 
Their creative partnership began before their romantic one when BJ confided in Rivera as a friend, expressing a desire to explore his femininity by dressing in women’s clothes. Rivera, who herself had ambiguous feelings about her own femininity, suggested they untangle their relationships to gender together, using photography as a space where fantasy could override reality. 
“I had been interested in the idea that popular notions of beauty are largely drawn from looking at repeated images,” Rivera said in an earlier interview with HuffPost. “The quality of the image has an incredible power to create desire, and that desire can be to inhabit the space of subject.” 
Rivera’s words are especially powerful in the context of the billboard exhibition, which replaces tired images of people as sex objects and product pushers with liberating, challenging and complex depictions, often of femininity from women’s own perspectives.
“Through ‘The Future Is Female’ we got an opportunity to show work of women who explore and narrate womanhood in many different ways, layers and angles,” Tomanova said, “and can challenge the mainstream media expectations and portrayal of women that I personally find very limiting.”
The exhibition doesn’t only provide an opportunity for an unwitting public to encounter art in their everyday spaces, it also shifts the conversation from what women do not have to what women can do. It’s a crucial message, told through radical accessibility, that will hopefully help shape the way young women view their relationship to their city and themselves. 
The billboards will pop up in various locales around New York’s Lower East Side beginning June 26, co-organized One Month One Week One Day (aka 1m1w1d)  and sponsored by Atlas Music Group. The featured artists’ work will also be featured at The Storefront Project beginning July 7. Get all the details here. 
“I killed Sirius Black! I killed Sirius Black!” Bellatrix Lestrange chants with the cadence of a deranged preschool teacher butchering nursery rhymes for sport in “Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.”
Bellatrix is high off murdering Harry Potter’s godfather and only living “family” member, but the real joy is rubbing it in. “You coming to get me?” she taunts Harry. “He knows how to play. Itty-bitty-baby-Potter.” Her words are punctuated with feral cackles, uttered through teeth caked in plaque, the residue of her time spent wasting away in Azkaban. 
When I read the “Harry Potter” books growing up, I had a strange affinity for Ms. Lestrange. Yes, she is a psychopathic Death Eater who worships the Dark Lord and reaps pleasure from the suffering of innocents. But Lestrange also embodies a combination of power, liberation and an unabashed lust for life (and death) I found enticing. Even while using the Cruciatus Curse to scramble the brains of noble wizards beyond salvation, she’s always having the most fun in the room. 
Lestrange is a villain, and a deliciously cruel one at that. And yet, in fables and fantasies, antagonists are often the female characters endowed with the most agency, freedom and style. As Leslie Jamison wrote of the “evil stepmother” figure that reappears in classic fairy tales time and time again: “She is an artist of cunning and malice, but still — an artist.”
There is something, if not admirable, at least enthralling about a woman who rebels against norms and expectations to feed her own delusions and desires, who embraces the inner “female monster” so many fight to suppress.
In the books and films, Bellatrix is a pure-blood witch born in 1951 to the House of Black, an established and powerful wizarding family in the Potterverse. She studied at Hogwarts in the Slytherin House and winds up serving Lord Voldemort as a Death Eater, his most fanatic and devoted follower by many accounts. 
Readers first learn about Lestrange through a flashback to one of her most heinous offenses. During the First Wizarding War, when Voldemort is in hiding, Bellatrix tortures Neville Longbottom’s parents while interrogating them for information on his whereabouts, tormenting them to such a degree that both lose their minds. The couple is then sent to St. Mungo’s Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries for the rest of their days. 
For her crimes, Bellatrix is sentenced to a lifetime in Azkaban, though she escapes after 15 years. Her incarceration is said to have wreaked havoc on her physical and mental states ― though her previous appetite for torture reveals her conscience was already nonexistent. In a cultural landscape that often supplies female characters with a specific motivation behind their cruel intentions (revenge! love! betrayal!) it’s strangely thrilling to follow a woman who was born vile without excuse or explanation. 
Physically, Bellatrix possesses the Black family line’s dependably handsome genes, endowed with long dark hair, heavily lidded eyes, long eyelashes and a strong jaw. Yet prison takes its toll on her good looks. Upon release, Bellatrix is described as having a “gaunt and skull-like face,” with hair that’s “unkempt and straggly.” In looks alone, Bellatrix exists between easy stereotypes or descriptions. She’s a beauty and a hag, attractive and repulsive, the hyperbole of a woman who, after spending years deteriorating in a magical penitentiary, has dared to “let herself go.”
Bellatrix is 30 years old when she is locked up; she breaks free at 45. The maturation she missed out on while incarcerated is evident in how she comports herself ― basically, like a big, evil baby. She is “incredibly infantile,” actor Helena Bonham Carter ― who played Lestrange in the film franchise ― said in an interview, as evidenced through her consistent baby-talk and predilection for sticking out her tongue.
“Dear Bellatrix, who likes to play with her food before she eats it,” Dumbledore says, referring to her penchant for torturing her victims before killing. The script for “Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince” refers to her as a “mad child.” After being imprisoned during a woman’s “peak years,” Bellatrix exists simultaneously in the before and after, scrambling the usual categories that separate a woman from a girl. 
Women are used to being infantilized; we’re assumed to be juvenile, then patronized and underestimated as a result. Bellatrix takes this gendered stereotype to its monstrous extreme, becoming part-girl, part-hag, who will giggle like a giddy schoolgirl as she inflicts unbearable pain onto her victims. She collapses the space between what men desire and what they fear, the appealing young girl and the undesirable old woman, leaving her allies and enemies torn between desire and horror. 
“She can be scary, definitely kids are scared of her,” Bonham Carter said when describing the character. “But also has a part of her that they wouldn’t mind being her, in the sense that she’s really naughty, she gets away with everything ... She’s very liberated. It was really fun to play her because she is just completely abandoned. I just let go, really.”
Because of her traditionally feminine attributes, as a reader I sometimes found myself empathizing with Bellatrix. She is known among magical circles, for example, for being a bit on the batty side, as psychopathic Death Eaters ― and powerful women ― can be. Despite being one of the most powerful wielders of Dark Magic in the “Harry Potter” universe, she is still constantly undermined and overlooked by her fellow Death Eaters, written off as a hysterical woman. Bellatrix plays up her unhinged persona, again contorting a weakness into something so fearful it becomes a strength.
The most glaring example transpires when Bellatrix desperately tries to warn her fellow Death Eaters not to trust Severus Snape, believing him to be loyal to Dumbledore over Voldemort. Of course, she’s right, as Snape reveals only after Bellatrix is dead. If heeded, her intuition could have uprooted the entire course of the story, though instead she’s just laughed off. 
Bellatrix is killed in the final battle at Hogwarts. Aside from Voldemort himself, she’s the last Death Eater standing. Molly Weasley eventually does the job, screaming “Not my daughter, you bitch!” as she strikes her with a fatal curse. It’s a battle between a loving mother of seven and an unruly girl-hag embroiled in an unrequited love affair with a noseless Dark Lord ― or as Molly put it, a “bitch.”
“I really enjoyed killing Bellatrix and I really enjoyed having Molly do it,” J.K. Rowling said in an interview. “You have two very different kinds of female energy there, pitted against each other.” Not surprisingly, love wins out over a bottomless lust for human suffering, and probably for the best. But Bellatrix dies with a “gloating smile” still frozen on her face, perhaps preferring death over Molly Weasley’s domestic bliss. 
“She just doesn’t act the way a mother is supposed to,” Leslie Jamison writes of the evil stepmother. “That’s her fuel, and her festering heart.” Yet even a malicious stepmother has more maternal instinct in her bones than Bellatrix, who murders her own niece without hesitation. 
With Bellatrix Lestrange, Rowling creates a monster whose attributes are culled from feminine tropes and stereotypes both desired and reviled. She’s the femme fatale, the hysterical woman, the mad child and the hag. Her inherent contradictions ― intelligence and flightiness, power and subservience, beauty and repulsiveness, childishness and decay ― contribute to her fearfulness.
Rarely are women, fictional or otherwise, given the space to embody paradoxical selves at once. This, in part, is what makes Bellatrix so menacing, along with her unquenchable thirst for torture, murder and Dark Arts. 
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
YA fans, this is not a drill: Entertainment Weekly reports that John Green’s next novel will be hitting shelves Oct. 10.
Green is the author of hit young adult novels The Fault in Our Stars and Paper Towns, both of which have been made into films. His books have been hugely successful, selling more than 45 million copies worldwide and positioning him among the world’s top-earning authors according to Forbes lists in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
He shared news of the new book, called Turtles All the Way Down, with his 5.31 million followers on Twitter.
Turtles All the Way Down. October 10th 2017.
The book follows 16-year-old Aza Holmes, who copes with mental illness while investigating a missing fugitive billionaire.
In a statement per Publishers Weekly, Green said he’s been working on this new novel for “years” — and that it has a personal meaning to him. 
“This is my first attempt to write directly about the kind of mental illness that has affected my life since childhood, so while the story is fictional, it is also quite personal,” he said in a statement.
Dutton Books, the novel’s publisher, describes the story as one “about lifelong friendship, the intimacy of an unexpected reunion, ‘Star Wars’ fan fiction, and tuatara.”
Yeah, we had to look up “tuatara” too: They’re medium-sized reptiles native to New Zealand. Apparently, they’re the only surviving member of an order that dates back to the dinosaurs. Intriguing!
Here’s one being shown to then-Prime Minister of New Zealand John Key in 2012.
Here’s Prince Harry greeting a tuatara that is 100 years old.
Not to be outdone, Prince Charles and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall have also posed with one.
 
No word on how tuatara will feel about their newfound fame come October.
Share this slide:
Knitting, stitching and weaving have long required skills historically deemed feminine: patience, prudence, diligence, domesticity, docility. The ability to follow directions attentively, to work in the home, to remain relatively quiet and still.
Before the Industrial Revolution and the arrival of mass production, women gathered in knitting circles to painstakingly create clothing, blankets and other soft goods for their homes and families. Knitting and its sister crafts were designated as “women’s work,” implicitly inferior to men’s work, whatever that may be. Yet the activities that indirectly oppressed women, by keeping them indoors and occupied, also served to ignite creativity, agency and rebellion. Women used their time together to exchange ideas and forge connections, to test their abilities and express themselves in new and exciting ways.
The history of textiles, then, is a history of feminine dissent told in a visual language that outwardly conforms to feminine standards and ideals. The radical chronology includes Gee’s Bend quilts, made in the 1800s by female slaves living on a cotton plantation to keep their children warm. And artists like Faith Wilding, Wanda Westcoast and Susan Frazier, who reclaimed the domestic sphere as a point of feminist art activism through the 1972 collaboration “Womanhouse.”
The most recent manifestation of craft’s political prowess appeared in the form of “pussy hats,” worn en masse at the Women’s March protests that swarmed the globe following President Donald Trump’s election. The pink, knitted caps marked with two cat-like ears embodied the spirit of what writer Betsy Greer defines as “craftivism” ― using crafts to create a more peaceful and just world. 
Ed Victori and Celine Mo, of the Bushwick-based gallery Victori + Mo, were among the many protesters who hit the streets in defiance of Trump’s long history of disrespecting and allegedly groping women in January 2017. The streets swarmed with protesters identifying as “nasty women” ― an allusion to Trump’s dig at Hillary Clinton, callously uttered during a presidential debate. 
With their current exhibition “Nasty Stitches,” Victori and Mo honor knitting’s longtime affiliation with feminist activism while broaching political concerns women and other marginalized communities are fighting for today. The show spotlights four contemporary artists whose works are soft in texture and piercing in nature ― Caroline Wells Chandler, Elsa Hansen, Sara Sachs and Katrina Majkut. 
Initially, the seedling concept of “Nasty Stitches” came to Mo in a dream. “I dreamed we did a show called ‘Crochet All Day,’ where we’d serve Rosé all day,” she told HuffPost in an interview. The exhibit’s final iteration swaps unlimited wine for an activist message that pervades the works’ subjects and media.
“Artists are revitalizing the knitting tradition and putting it into a contemporary context,” Victori told HuffPost. “We want to create this story around femininity, while addressing what is at stake under the current administration.”
One featured artist is Caroline Wells Chandler, who crochets rainbow figures who appear to be consistently leaping through the air at all times. The fibrous friends don superhero-esque capes and cowboy chaps, their flattened physiques unable to be categorized by binary understandings of gender.
Chandler, who identifies as queer and trans, learned to crochet while caring for his aging grandparents. He appreciated the communal space the art form provided, its repetition leaving space for reflection and communication. “Crochet is inherently a social way of making art,” he said in an earlier interview with HuffPost.
Artist Elsa Hansen creates hand-stitched tableaus that conjure pop culture personas, tiny renderings that feature iconic figures like Daniel Day-Lewis, Jimmy Buffet and, yes, Trump, reduced to worry-doll size, arranged methodically like pill bottles on a shelf. Katrina Majkut cross-stitches objects related to sexual health in crisp detail, from condom wrappers to IUDs to the surgical tools used in performing an abortion. Perhaps more than any other artist on view, Majkut alludes to the political history of the medium, using a traditionally feminized territory to discuss issues that affect women directly. 
Also on view is artist Sara Sachs, the mother of famed contemporary artist Tom Sachs. She learned to cross-stitch at around 8 years old, taught by her own mother. “She had learned cross-stitching from her mother at a similar age so it was kind of a legacy, though I didn’t think of it in those terms when I was a child,” Sachs wrote to HuffPost. “My fingers just felt good while I was stitching and it put me in sort of a reverie.”
Sachs worked as a nurse; the exposure to human bodies and the tools used to inspect them served as unlikely artistic inspiration. “Instead of being horrified by the gore I witnessed when assisting in surgical procedures, I was struck by the beauty of the human form in all of its aspects,” she recalled. “Also, the design simplicity and craftsmanship of the medical instruments impressed me profoundly.” The soft and handmade quality of her artworks contrasts sharply with the incisive and mass-produced origins of her inspiration. 
Now in her mid-60s, Sachs recalls working in a time when knitting was immediately delegated to the realm of craft, which was deemed subordinate to art, implying that so-called women’s work lacked the rigor and erudition of male-dominated fields like painting and sculpture. “It’s thrilling to see what was, until recently, dismissed as a mere craft now being validated,” she said. 
The younger artists in “Nasty Stiches,” as Victori explained, “didn’t have to experience their work being stomped on” quite as much. But still, they are painfully aware of the perpetuating misogyny, homophobia and inequality that plague both the art world microcosm and the world beyond it. 
“Among the many things that are disheartening about the current political environment,” Sachs said, “is the attempt to silence women and have them revert to their voiceless places in the sewing circles of the past. To the extent I and others can advance needlework as an art, we are pushing back against those that would silence us. As modest as that effort might seem, if we all pushed back in our own way, the impact could be dramatic.” 
“Nasty Stitches” runs until July 23, 2017 at Victori + Mo in New York. 
In January, President Donald Trump issued an executive order denying citizens from seven Muslim-majority nations entry into the United States. In the months since, multiple courts have deemed the ban unconstitutional, arguing that it discriminates against Muslims. 
Yet Trump is still pushing strongly for the directive, filing an emergency request with the Supreme Court earlier this month and penning increasingly incensed tweets expressing his frustration with the Justice Department. 
Not long after Trump first announced his plans for the ban, art institutions around the U.S. responded to denounce the executive order as fundamentally opposed to values of inclusion, diversity and liberty. New York’s Museum of Modern Art made its convictions known by hanging work made by artists hailing from affected nations on its walls. The Davis Museum at Wellesley College used a different approach to convey a similar message. The museum temporarily removed all artwork made by or donated by immigrants from the museum walls. 
The message behind both art world protests came through loud and clear: immigrants are indispensable parts of the fabric of this country, and their contributions to American civilization and culture are invaluable.
Or, as Iranian-born, New York–based artist Nicky Nodjoumi put it: “Understanding the cultural exchange is very important at this moment. And so we have this show.” 
The show is “Beyond the Ban,” on display at Susan Eley Fine Art in New York. A direct response to Trump’s order, the exhibition offers a lush visual argument for the benefits of inclusion, plurality and free expression, featuring work by 10 Iranian-born artists living and working in the U.S. 
Nodjoumi, who curated the exhibit, was born in Iran in 1942. He relocated to New York City in the ’60s and became actively involved in protesting Iran’s Pahlavi regime.
“When I came to New York I worked with political organizations,” the artist told HuffPost. “I didn’t do paintings for three years; I felt like painting was not enough. But at the end I realized this is my capacity. This is what I do best.”
The artist received his master’s in fine arts from The City College of New York in 1974 before moving back to Iran to teach at Tehran University of Fine Arts. There, Nodjoumi motivated his students to be outspoken in criticizing dictatorial regimes and designed political posters visualizing the ethos of the Iranian Revolution. In 1981, he returned to New York but continued to tease out the trauma of his experiences with political oppression through painting. 
Nodjoumi’s works are graphic but not straightforward, plopping familiar yet enigmatic images of wild animals, men in suits, long sticks and bright balloons into uninhibited backdrops. The carnivalesque images wrap political commentary in an absurd and slightly surreal fog, alluding to the eternal threats of power, tyranny and greed, untethered to a specific time or place.
“I like my works to have a story, to have some drama, like they’re onstage,” Nodjoumi told HuffPost. “When I do larger scale paintings, the paint becomes dominant and takes over. I follow the rules of painting when a piece starts.”
The New York nonprofit Center for Human Rights in Iran reached out to Nodjoumi to curate the “Beyond the Ban” show, with 90% of proceeds benefitting the organization. 
“I didn’t want all the work to address the subjects of human rights and immigration,” Nodjoumi clarified. “I thought we should let the artists do whatever they want to do. There is a diversity of subject matter in the show. All of us are immigrants, and you can see the range in our cultures and the stories.”
One such artist is photographer Hossein Fatemi, who, for a series titled “Veiled Truths,” photographed 20 women through a veil ― as in, he literally draped each subject’s hijab over his camera lens. The series responded to the controversial Iranian government dictate requiring women’s heads be covered in public regardless of how they identify religiously or how they comport themselves at home.
Some of Fatemi’s more religious subjects wear the hijab on a daily basis, while some of his secular subjects felt repressed by the reigning government’s enforced modesty. In his photos, strangers’ portraits are overlaid with the embellished patterns of the hijab, obscuring the woman’s identity while enveloping her in a visual mandala. The simple formula questions the limits of religious observance and political mandates, examining the imprint they leave on one’s personal identity. 
When selecting artists to feature in the show, Nodjoumi explained that his greatest worry was potentially endangering any participating artists.
“In Iran, they don’t like my paintings,” NodjoumiI said. “If I go back to Iran, they might arrest me. When someone actively and openly criticizes the regime or asks for more tolerance, they don’t like it. It might be a problem for someone trying to go back and forth between Iran and the U.S.” 
And yet he’s troubled by the threats of censorship currently confronting artists in America, as well. “I’m very concerned about freedom of speech here,” Nodjoumi said. “I’m here as an Iranian American to be part of that act of activism.”
“Beyond the Ban,” then, tells no singular story and advances no particular agenda. In paintings, photos and prints, the works interweave Iranian artistic traditions with contemporary Western trends and innovations. The show hopes not only to encourage reflection on how we perceive Muslim-majority nations under Trump administration, but to emphasize the role art can play in uncertain political times. 
“I’ve been here for a long time,” Nodjoumil explained. “I have experienced prejudice and discrimination with my work. I am familiar with being placed in a box; it’s a problem. But to be honest, I think there has been an attempt in recent years to expose more Middle Eastern artists, and that’s really great.”
“Beyond the Ban” features work by Shirin Neshat, Nicky Nodjoumi, Nahid Hagigat, Shoja Azari, Shahram Karimi, Jason Noushin, Afshin Naghouni, Nazanin Noroozi, Raha Raissnia and Hossein Fatemi. The exhibition runs until August 30, 2017 at Susan Eley Fine Art. Those interested in donating to the Center for Human Rights in Iran, click here.
Welcome to Battleground, where art and activism meet.
 
Anyone who has sat through a high school biology lecture on genetics understands the basics of dominant and recessive alleles, which explain, among other things, how two brown-eyed parents can have a blue-eyed baby.
When you start talking magical ability, however, things become more complicated.
That was the topic of one panel at Future Con, a convention “where science meets science fiction,” held this past weekend. In “Harry Potter and the Genetics of Wizarding,” Duke University professor Eric Spana discussed the intricacies of wizard DNA.
Fans of “Harry Potter” know that, while two magical parents will likely have magical children, that’s not always the case. Occasionally, an all-magic union will result in a squib, or non-magic, child (think of poor Argus Filch, tasked with cleaning all of Hogwarts without so much as a wand to help him out). On the flip side, Hermione Granger — one of the finest witches of all time, IMO — was born to two muggle parents. Throughout the series, we learn that students like Seamus Finnigan had one magical and one muggle parent. So how the heck is magical ability passed on?
According to a summary of the panel from Live Science, Spana debated whether magical ability was a recessive trait (much like the Weasley family’s red hair), meaning it’s possible for an individual to carry the gene and potentially pass that gene onto offspring without expressing its traits. He ultimately decided it wasn’t, though — thanks to one Rubeus Hagrid. 
You see, Hagrid was born to a giant mother and a wizard father. This meant Hagrid was born a wizard with only one copy of wizarding DNA in his blood (giants are non-magical). Thus, Spana concluded, magical ability must be a dominant trait.
If that’s the case, how did Spana explain children like Hermione, who are the first in her family line with magical powers? A good, old-fashioned genetic mutation, possibly occurring in a sperm or egg cell, or after the egg is fertilized. (Yeah, don’t you wish you’d remembered more from AP Biology now?) As for squibs, Spana posited that parents could carry a mutation of the wizarding gene and pass it on to their child.
Science, man. It’s pretty magical.
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
Share this slide:
WASHINGTON ― Lauren Lovette has taken thousands of ballet classes in her life. The New York City Ballet principal dancer, 25, started ballet at age 10, and has for years started almost every day with the same routine: plié, tendu, port de bras. Left hand on the bar, then right. At this point, the days on which she’s gone to ballet class vastly outnumber the ones on which she hasn’t. But today, she’s teaching ballet class, something she’s only done a couple of times in her life, and she’s nervous.
So are the kids waiting outside the studio. Out in the lobby of The Washington School of Ballet, some 30 girls aged 8, 9 and 10 in leotards and pink tights (and one boy in a white t-shirt and black tights) are stretching and jumping and spritzing last-minute hairspray on their sleek high buns. They were nervous last night, too, at the meet-and-greet that followed Lovette’s performance at The Kennedy Center on June 10. After watching Lovette sparkle and spin to the strains of George Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue,” a dozen baby ballerinas stood with their parents under the giant bronze head of former President John F. Kennedy, waiting for Lovette to materialize from backstage. “I hope I don’t say something stupid in front of her,” one girl fretted to her mother, shifting her weight from one foot to the other. “What if I say something stupid?”
The young dancers in the lobby don’t know, and probably wouldn’t care, that Lovette has barely taught ballet before; they’re here to spend a few hours learning from — and hopefully impressing — their idol. Lovette doesn’t hesitate to tell them the truth, though. After they’ve all taken their places at the barres that line and dissect the large, bright studio, as they’re all looking at her expectantly, anxiously, she says, “I haven’t really done this before. So it could go really wrong. But I think it’s going to be OK.”
And so it is. The class proceeds without incident. For 90 minutes, she puts the ballet students through their paces, correcting their arm placement (“No chicken arms,” she warns, when outstretched elbows begin to droop) and urging them to remember that even their standard, repetitive daily exercises are, in fact, dancing, and should be performed, not simply completed.
At one point, she’s talking the students through the port de bras arm-stretching exercise she’s set for them; it’s a languorous, luxurious reach toward the barre, and then away from it. The second part requires taking their supporting hand off the barre and floating it over their heads, bending sideways at the waist as far as they can. “Don’t be afraid to fall over,” Lovette says, stretching her head far past the midline of her body. “What’s the worst that can happen, you fall on the floor?”
The girls around her giggle, but Lovette is serious. As it turns out, her little pre-class warning is something of a motto for her. “It could go really wrong, but I think it’s going to be OK” is the kind of thing you could see her stitching onto a throw pillow. (She loves crafting, she tells the students in a post-class Q&A session.) The same goes for what she tells the students about the port de bras, a phrase she’ll repeat several times throughout the class: “Be brave.”
Jessica Wallis, the executive director of Ballet in the City, which organized the weekend of masterclasses, said she wanted to work with Lovette because she is a positive role model for young dancers. Wallis particularly admires how Lovette uses social media ― one major way in which dancers across the country get to “know” their favorite ballet stars. “Dancers feel compelled to put themselves out there and a lot of it is all about me and how great I am,” Wallis told HuffPost. “Every day it’s another image of them with an arabesque and whatever. But when Lauren shares herself on social media it’s very much her thoughts about her self as a dancer, as a person, as member of society, and that translates on stage and in her teaching.” 
Lovette grew up 40 miles outside of Los Angeles, the daughter of a conservative Christian pastor; she and her three siblings were all home-schooled. One day, when she was 10, Lovette was visiting the dance-wear store owned by her aunt when the owner of a local dance school saw her playing around among the leotards and wrap skirts. Kim Maselli, the Artistic Director of the nearby California Dance Theatre, noticed Lovette’s feet, and suspected the young girl might have the right body, or at least the right feet, for ballet. She offered Lovette a week of classes for free. Then a month, then a year, and on it went, until Lovette was 14 years old and moving away to Manhattan to board and take intensive classes at the School of American Ballet, the feeder school for New York City Ballet.
“It was a gift,” Lovette says of Maselli’s offer. “I owe her a lot.”
For Lovette, who was a shy and self-conscious child, the prospect of performing in tights and a leotard, of being lifted in the air, of failing in front of people, was daunting. Her family was tightknit and nurturing, and she was encouraged to play outside and use her imagination ― a necessity in a family with little money that largely shunned television ― but Lovette was an anxious kid. “I was afraid of the water, I was afraid of heights, I was afraid of any game I didn’t know how to play, afraid I would be bad at it,” she recalls.
She’d skip pool parties, because she was afraid of swimming. She’d miss out on sleepovers because she was afraid of being around so many kids. “Taking my first ballet class was the first really brave thing I did. I didn’t know what I was doing and everybody else did, and I felt very overwhelmed,” Lovette recalls.
But she felt a desire to push through it, because she knew that her teachers saw potential. When she was one of the few people in the nation selected for the School of American Ballet, she was terrified. “I was going to move away from my family, I never went to school in my life, and now I was going to live in New York City with all these other kids and go to a boarding school?” It was, she says, “this really big moment when I knew I had to brave.”
Lovette says she gets her outlook on life — the imperative to seize opportunities, to better herself continuously — from her father, who was an avid reader of self-help books when she was a child. “He’d read them to us, and I started reading books like that around 14, and one of the things I read was that you should do something scary every day.”
The tone of her Instagram feed, which Wallis praised, has noticeable “self-help” feel. A post this month about deciding to start running again reads, “Sometimes you don’t feel like it... Sometimes you are sore, tired, uninspired, or any number of different excuses. The only way to silence that negative pattern is to look your mountain square on and shout the time is now! Then start climbing.” It’s accompanied by a photo of a grinning Lovette in a black bra and panties and pink pointe shoes, hair down and flying around her as she leaps in the air.
When Lovette left home to study ballet full-time, she made a personal rule for herself: whenever there was a sign-up sheet, no matter what it was for, no matter if she thought she stood a chance of being picked, she’d put her name on it. “Even if you didn’t know if you could do it, just go for it, and kind of leave it up to the universe,” she says. “So I forced myself to sign up for things.”
That was how she ended up emceeing a school fashion show, even though she was scared of public speaking. And it’s how she ended up choreographing for the first time.
In the post-class Q&A, she tells the class that she’d never really intended to choreograph; she’d just followed the rule and put her name on a sign-up sheet once, as a student at the School of American Ballet. To her surprise, she was chosen to make a piece for her classmates.
Certain she was going to fail, she went to the school principal and explained that she wanted to bow out. But the principal told her that she’d made a commitment, and she had to follow through on it. She had to pick her dancers last, and was left with a group of people she didn’t think she could work with.
“I had this random group of dancers of all different heights,” she recalls, but they ended up having fun together. Now, she’s once again choreographing on her peers, but her peers aren’t students anymore: they’re dancers in one of the highest profile ballet companies on the planet.
The dearth of women choreographers in ballet is a longstanding problem, and ballet companies’ failure to solve it has drawn complaints in recent years.
In the 2016 spring season, in major companies in the US and around the world, works by women were a tiny fraction of the dances permitted on stage. But when people in the ballet world argue that the overrepresentation of men is waning, they often point to New York City Ballet’s 2016 fall season, which featured works by two women choreographers. Lovette was one of them; her first ballet “For Clara,” made on City Ballet dancers, premiered at Lincoln Center. The New York Times dance critic was unimpressed, calling the staging “cluttered,” the partnering “sexist,” the music unsuitable for dancing and concluding that Lovette’s work “showed talent without looking ready for presentation by one of the world’s foremost companies.” Still, she’ll premiere her second ballet at the company’s high-profile fall gala later this year.
The stakes are high when Lovette choreographs. There are lots of eyes on her, and she’s been unwillingly turned into something of a poster child, or at least, one of the few data points in the case that things really are getting better. “It’s a lot of pressure,” she says. Making “For Clara” was especially hard, because she hadn’t choreographed since her school days.
“Not only did I have to choreograph after not practicing for six years, I had to make it on the big stage, with lights and costumes and everything, stuff that I hadn’t been practicing,” Lovette explains.
The critics were watching, and so was the Ballet master in chief, Peter Martins, who decides which ballets the company performs. “I tried to ignore it as much as I could and just get the job done, but now looking at it I feel like it is a lot of pressure,” she says. Lovette’s cheered, though, to see more young women expressing interest in choreographing. “It’s hard, and it shouldn’t be that way. I don’t think it’s going to be like that forever.”
A post shared by Lauren Lovette (@laurenlovette) on Oct 5, 2016 at 12:05pm PDT
Wendy Whelan, who danced for City Ballet for 30 years, and whom Lovette names as a role model, has concerns about women like Lovette being thrown into the glaring spotlight with relatively little choreographic experience.
“Of course it’s wonderful to develop young female choreographers,” Whelan told HuffPost. “But I don’t know if they’re necessarily ready for making something for New York City Ballet.”
Whelan places the responsibility of fixing the gender imbalance in programming at the feet of artistic directors (Martins has indeed been a longtime supporter of Lovette’s choreographic efforts), and says that the choice to bypass more seasoned choreographers could be to the detriment of the company and the choreographers themselves ― the older ones and the newer ones. “They’re awfully young,” Whelan says of some of the women being granted a chance at ballet immortality, “and less experienced than the ones who are out there. So that’s my question: Why aren’t you bringing in ones who’ve had lots of experience already? Rather than somebody who’s making their first ballet?”
Lovette acknowledges that not all her ballets will be successful, just as not all her performances are flawless. One of the things she’s been practicing since her early teen years is “casting the line out, before you’re really ready to fish.” And sometimes, it doesn’t work out. She told the class about how, once, she fell onstage while she was dancing the role of the Sugarplum Fairy in the company’s flagship production, “The Nutcracker.” The Lincoln Center house was full; a dozen little girls in angel costumes were gathered around her, and she ate it, tearing a ligament. “But at least I went for it,” she says, as the students laugh at the image of their suddenly humanized heroine splatting onto the stage. As for choreographing, “I know I’ll fail at that too, if I keep going. You’re going to lose some fish on the line.”
She still gets scared performing, she admits. “That hasn’t gone away. And I still have shows where that gets the best of me.” Stepping into the role of Aurora, the technically gruelling lead in “Sleeping Beauty,” was frightening, and upsetting. “I remember being in tears after my first dress rehearsal,” Lovette recalls. “And really broken up about my first show [of “Sleeping Beauty”], because I watched the tape of it and I thought it was so terrible.”
Lovette finds roles that involve plenty of acting to be the most freeing, because being someone else helps with the fear. “Lauren is afraid of heights, but Juliet isn’t,” she told the class in Washington, D.C. Lauren might balk at the big lifts in the balcony scene pas de deux, but Juliet throws herself into them.
For a former anxious kid who’s now an anxious adult, flawlessness isn’t always the point: trying is. In an artform that prizes perfection, Lovette tries to remember that the victory can be in the attempt. “I feel good when I put myself out there and I make the attempt,” she says. “Because when you’re somebody who’s filled with a lot of fear and anxiety, even putting your neck out there is a success. If I turn down an opportunity because I’m afraid, that feels like more of a failure than getting a bad review or falling on stage.” 
Back in the studio in D.C., Lovette tells the students that choreographing requires courage. It can be a little “unusual and uncomfortable” not being told what the steps are ― especially for ballet dancers, who are used to following instructions to the letter. It was odd “to not be told what to do, like, uh, what do I do with my arms?” In the second half of the class, she runs some choreography exercises with the students, encouraging them to make up their own steps and instructing them teach the moves to each other. “I want you to do what the music makes you feel,” she says, “even if that’s ballet, steps you know.”
When she turns the music on, switching from one song to another after 30 or so seconds, a lot of the girls play it safe, repeating phrases of dances they clearly already know. “This is not being graded,” Lovette reminds them. “I want you guys to practice being brave.”
It’s something she’s been practicing since she took Maselli up on the offer of a free ballet class at age 10, but she admits that her bravery is still very much a work in progress. “I don’t know if you ever really know when you get brave,” she explains. And while she’s still afraid of heights, and still nervous about teaching a ballet class, she’s no longer afraid of falling in class, or on stage. “I get over falling very easily now,” she says. “I’m like, that’s OK: I went for it.”
In the past decade or so, a subgenre of dystopian fiction has emerged to confront our changing planet: climate fiction, or “cli-fi.” In stories like Jeff VanderMeer’s “Southern Reach” trilogy, or Kim Stanley Robinson’s New York 2140 and Claire Vaye Watkins’ Gold Fame Citrus, characters confront floods, droughts and other environmental catastrophes.
But, as a recent post on the Smithsonian blog points out, these stories are swiftly becoming not just future possibilities, but present realities.
In an interview with HuffPost, VanderMeer noted that, “the solutions a fiction writer can provide, the speculation, is perhaps edging toward offensive in a policy context ― because we have scientists telling us what we need to do and they are the experts.”
A new cartoon anthology called Warmer ― which is currently seeking funding on Kickstarter ― addresses these issues and more. Co-edited by artists Madeleine Witt and Andrew White, the collection of works serves to provide support and hope to those who are mourning the damage done to the earth.
In an interview with HuffPost, White said, “As co-editors of Warmer, Madeleine and I wanted to make a book to offer comfort for those already fearful about climate change. So for the most part, Warmer doesn’t aim to convince anyone of anything. We imagined Warmer in part as a book that will function to encourage and support activists; to comfort those who, like ourselves, are wrestling with the grief of climate change.”
Below is a selection from five of the book’s contributors.
“This piece about humpback whale migration is the beginning of a collaborative project between me and my dear friend Catalina Jaramillo, a journalist who writes environmental/sustainability stories,” Berg said. “Through this collaboration I hope to express our shared love and respect for the ocean and its inhabitants.”
“There’s beauty in just surviving despite everything, and real shame in so selfishly leaving all this to our children and grandchildren. And it won’t be far off in the distance — it’s already happening,” Skaalrud said. “I both feel helpless for my very young friends who will navigate climate change as it worsens, and still want to practically prepare them as much as I can. As I always say, ‘I can at least teach you to ride a horse, shoot a rifle, and start a fire.’”
She says that as an artist, she “can’t present a perfect argument or deeply considered treatise that would change anyone’s mind. I feel, if there’s anything I can do that will truly activate change, it’s touching people’s hearts.”
“Often in my work I engage with disability subjects, but when it comes to an issue as overwhelming as climate change, I think everyone of every ability is confronted with how limited they are,” Anderson said. “It’s always such a powerless feeling, such a moment of frustrated desire for control over your situation. We are ultimately still responsible for our part in this, even if we can barely do anything to fix it all. It’s a contradiction that can’t be resolved, a feeling of smallness in a moment where we need to be big.”
They continued, “Art has the power to expand our emotional understanding of the political, and this is an important form of activism. It’s a responsibility artists need to rise to.”
“For me, art and activism are two occasionally overlapping streams that come from the same source,” Witt said. “They both come out of a desire to see true things expressed, broken things healed, justice enacted. This comic, in particular, is a kind of meditative experience; the moment of quiet prayer before entering the battle, a necessary attempt to grasp the enormity of climate change and my own feeling about it. This comic is a piece of the reflection that necessarily precedes action.”
“My piece for Warmer adapts several Yoko Ono instructions from her books Grapefruit and Acorn. For example, one piece that I adapted reads, ‘Walk in the footsteps of the person in front. 1. on ground 2. in mud 3. in snow 4. on ice 5. in water. Try not to make sounds,’” White said. “I found these pieces very moving. I couldn’t stop thinking about them. The instructions call upon the reader to go out into the world. Ono asks us to see the world as it is — to experience its beauty, its fragility, its splendor. So I aimed in my piece to both instill in readers that desire to reach out towards the world, and to communicate my own feelings about interacting with natural beauty when I fear that beauty might be fleeting.”
Given the incessant pace of the internet, and the antics of the current presidential administration, staying up to date with American current events can be exhausting, if not harrowing.
Earlier this month, after former FBI director James Comey testified before the Senate Intelligence Committee, the web was buzzing with familiar hot takes and political predictions, mostly rehashing the same quotes and questions. A young poet by the name of Gordon Ip, however, packaged his take on the breaking news differently, breathing new life into yesterday’s news.
“Kushner, Flynn, where does the truth begin?” he said, words flowing with urgency and poise. “Suspicion in the wind, static in our sleep, demanding our dreams, unquestioned loyalty. Our country is full of ‘no questions, please.’”
Ip is a member of Get Lit, a troupe of young poets who make and perform slam poetry in and around Los Angeles. The nonprofit organization was launched by Diane Luby Lane in 2006 as an effort to increase literacy among elementary, middle and high school students through spoken word.
It’s working. Compared to the 77 percent graduation rate of students in the Los Angeles Unified School District, the second largest in the nation, 98 percent of all Get Lit Players graduate and go to college ― with 70 percent earning some sort of scholarship.
Slam poetry, or spoken word, is part creative writing, part performance, a means to finding your voice and expressing it ― loudly.
“Working with young people, it feels like you’re helping to shape someone’s idea of themselves,” Lane told HuffPost. “Young people are so open, their lives can go so many different directions. There are so many young people that are artists, writers, performers, who don’t know what to do with their talent. If they don’t have that avenue, what a waste. It can be the difference between getting a scholarship to college and dropping out of school.”
For the past 20 weeks, the Get Lit Players have been participating in a series called “Get Lit NOW,” using current events as a springboard for poetry that melds the political and the personal, addressing national and global concerns in one unfiltered voice. Mila Cuda, a high school senior and newly elected Poet Laureate of Los Angeles, serves as the editor. 
Topics broached in the series range from healthcare to climate change to rape culture, depending on the week’s most recent happenings. Each subject is communicated, however, through the singular perspective of the poet, translated into an embodied and impassioned language all its own. 
“Writing about politics is something I’ve explored more recently,” poet Jojo Louis told HuffPost. “I had been seeing these shocking things on the news, but I never really wrote about them. Once I started, I realized how much my opinion matters. Poetry helps me spread the word about what I feel.”
Louis, who is 19 years old, wrote and performed a piece addressing reports that President Donald Trump had ordered the launch of 59 missiles against Syria, which he initially misidentified as Iraq, while enjoying “the most beautiful piece of chocolate cake that you’ve ever seen,” as the president described. 
Louis’ poem dramatizes Trump’s bizarre description of his dessert, as well as his inability to recall which country he had attacked. Louis blasts Trump’s machismo facade with a masterful mix of satire and solemnity. “Should we let them in? Lock them up? Shuffle up the deck and bomb the shit out of whichever card comes up?” he asks. 
For the young poet, the challenge of making the political poetic rests in his ability to show the implications actions have on actual individuals. “When I see something on the news, I immediately think about how it directly affects me,” he said. “After that, I think more about its universal impact. I try to put my all into it: my experience, my story.”
Another poet, 18-year-old Samantha Healy, addressed Syria in her poem, which she performed just after a gruesome chemical weapons attack left scores of citizens, many of whom were children, dead. 
“We could fund the arts or tear the world apart,” Healy says, eyes burrowing into the camera. “Are we nationalists or just negligent? Are we nationalists or just negligent? Are we practicing policies of isolation? Trying to be bipartisan but only being bystanders? We are not innocent when we watch violent acts. And we are not innocent when we commit them.” 
Like Louis, Healy is relatively new to writing poetry about political topics. “I usually wrote about my own personal experiences,” she told HuffPost. “When I first hear about something happening in the world, I am a very empathetic person, so there’s a lot of emotion. I immediately write down the emotions, then I get the facts down.”
While poetry is often written off too quickly as elusive, elitist or out of touch, the Get Lit Players show the art form at its most urgent and accessible, words pumping with adrenaline. “Poetry has a level of honesty to it,” Louis described. “People bring more than just words to a poem. People bring their feelings. It can spark a fire in someone that influences their actions, or helps them look outside of their own personal experience.”
Healy added that poetry is an especially potent medium for young people, who often encounter the art form when their lives and identities are still very much in flux. “You become part of a movement,” she said. “Everyone is so vulnerable and open; it creates such a healthy way to get through your pain. We’re changing something, we’re moving forward and we’re making a difference with our words and our honesty.”
You can check out 20 young poets’ musings on political happenings through the Get Lit NOW Facebook page, and be sure to check back each week as a new poem is added. 
Welcome to Battleground, where art and activism meet.
You might chortle at the thought, but a surprising number of words we use every day slipped into the English language through children’s books.
“Chortle,” a combination of “snort” and “chuckle,” was coined by Lewis Carroll in the poem “Jabberwocky,” which appears in his children’s fantasy novel Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There. It’s not at all uncommon to hear terms like “hobbit” used outside of a discussion of The Lord of the Rings. And we’d never be able to describe peach cobbler or chocolate lava cake as “scrumdiddlyumptious” without Roald Dahl.
To some degree, this results from purposeful allusion. You might not say “Oompa Loompa” unless you’re intending to call up an image of the fictional chocolate factory workers enslaved by Willy Wonka. But these terms bleed into our culture until even those who’ve never read Charlie and the Chocolate Factory know more or less what they mean, and they take on a whole new place in the language.
Twenty years after the series kicked off, it seems hardly anyone has avoided reading the “Harry Potter” books or seeing the movies; perhaps that’s why so much of the series’ wildly original vocabulary has already seeped into our everyday chatter. A well-meaning but uncool friend is “such a Hufflepuff,” people who don’t get the Potterverse are “Muggles,” and a train delay makes one wish for the ability to “apparate” to their destination. J.K. Rowling’s magical world, which adds new or revitalized concepts to a familiar world, is a rich source of vocabulary for describing our humdrum existences with more color and imagination. 
Rowling made it easy for readers to integrate spells, wizarding terms and names into their regular lives. She researched and carefully constructed new words from relevant linguistic roots, resulting in words like “apparate” that fit perfectly into our existing language. “To apparate” means to magically disappear and reappear in a new location, and is derived from a Latin term for “to appear.” 
Other terms, like “Slytherin” or “Hufflepuff”, also suggest meaning through sound, a linguistic phenomenon called “sound symbolism.” The sibilant consonants of “Slytherin” suggest something sly, smooth and cunning (as does the obvious link to slithering snakes); Hufflepuff’s comical “uff”s sound effortful but also innocuous. Little wonder that Slytherin is the house of clever, ambitious wizards and Hufflepuff is the house of kind, hardworking ones. 
“Muggle” may be the most widely used Potterism. Unlike most original words from the books, it has merited an entry in Oxford Dictionaries. The word for non-magical folk manages to sound like exactly what it is: a bit of a goober, but a harmless one. Rowling has said she derived the word from “mug,” a Britishism for a gullible fool, and that she also wanted to make the word a bit “cuddly.” 
The word she came up with evokes not only a “mug,” but something “snuggly” and also a “struggle.” This combo makes the word irresistible in everyday conversation, whether you’re describing someone who has never read “Harry Potter” or anyone unfamiliar with your subculture of choice. As an example, Oxford suggests, “She’s a muggle: no IT background, understanding or aptitude at all.” 
It’s not a slur, but it simply oozes head-patting condescension.
“You-Know-Who” and “He Who Must Not Be Named” don’t just mean the character of Voldemort, the super-villain of the wizarding world ― they could refer any powerful, loathed figure. Even “Voldemort” has become shorthand on the left for referencing President Donald Trump. His motley crew of aides and advisors? They’re Voldemort’s loyal followers. Why explain how evil you think Steve Bannon is if you need only call him a “Death Eater”? On the flip side, “Hermione” became almost synonymous with Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election.
“Accio,” the Summoning Charm, is too useful to leave in the magical world ― we all need to accio our keys every now and then ― though its pronunciation is too tricky to easily use in spoken conversation. Sometimes the thought of erasing someone’s memory with a quick “obliviate” seems tempting. And though “Time-Turners” are heavily restricted even in the wizarding world, where they at least exist, after a particularly dumb mistake it’s natural to openly wish for such a magical gadget to go back and fix things.
It’s a rare author indeed whose imagination changes the very language we use. William Shakespeare and John Milton, both renowned poets, have famously introduced hundreds of words and phrases into the English tongue. Lewis Carroll, one of the most legendary children’s book authors of all time, has also coined terms that we now use without even realizing where we learned them. Rowling’s well-researched inventiveness has put her in the same illustrious group ― and for all the theme parks and movies her books have spawned, this effect on the English language may prove to be one of the “Harry Potter” universe’s most long-lasting and profound accomplishments.
What wizarding words do you find yourself sprinkling into your vocabulary? Let us know in the comments.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article misidentified the author of “Jabberwocky” as C.S. Lewis. 
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
Mark Gatiss and Steve Moffat ― the duo behind BBC’s popular Sherlock Holmes adaptation, “Sherlock,” starring Benedict Cumberbatch ― are working on a new project, Variety reported.
The writer-producer team will update another literary genre story: Bram Stoker’s Dracula.
Like Sir Arthur Conan Doyle’s stories, Stoker’s book was published at the end of the 19th century. Stoker, also like Doyle, spent much of his life living in London. Whether the shows will bear as many similarities as the source material remains to be seen. Will the Dracula reboot also take place in the modern-day U.K.? Will fun flashback episodes aimed at diehard fans? Will it launch the career of a new heartthrob like Cumberbatch, or will Cumberbatch himself play the lead?
There’s no word yet ― but here’s hoping.
What we do know is that Dracula adaptation will also air on BBC, likely in 2019, and will take on the same structure of longish, 90-minute episodes and shortish seasons.
As Variety points out, there may be a dwindling appetite for vampire shows, after the genre saw a post-Twilight surge. In 2013, an attempted NBC “Dracula” revamp didn’t get renewed for a second season.
Share this slide:
On Tuesday evening, a group of students ― pre-kindergarteners to 12th graders from New York public schools in all five boroughs ― converged at The Metropolitan Museum of Art. The young people were not gathering for some sort of field trip, but rather to welcome visitors at the landmark museum to the opening night of their group exhibition.
For the past 10 years, The Met has hosted a group exhibition entitled “P.S. Art,” featuring artwork from a variety of media highlighting the innovation and skill emerging from public art education programs in and around New York City. On opening night, the young artists were given lanyards to distinguish them from the hundreds of visitors clamoring to get a glimpse of the work. Visitors were encouraged to approach any and all lanyard-wearers, providing the ever-rare opportunity to discuss an artwork on display at The Met with its maker. 
“One of the most powerful parts of the show is the moment when the young people realize their ever first show is happening at The Met,” Sandra Jackson-Dumont, the Museum’s Frederick P. and Sandra P. Rose Chairman of Education, told HuffPost in an interview. Jackson-Dumont oversees programming at the museum geared toward teaching and learning, from coordinating lectures and artist residencies to managing accessibility programming for museumgoers with vision loss or dementia. 
Every year, Jackson-Dumont explained, over 1,000 students submit their work to a jury comprising art world figures and staff members at The Met. The works are judged in comparison to others in their age group, though the criteria is inevitably subjective. “They’re looking for youth voice,” Jackson-Dumont said. “Even at that age, we encourage them not to copy. We want them, as artists, to use their own creative impulses and let that guide the process.” 
This year 103 artworks were selected, including a first-grader’s Picasso-like depiction of the Statue of Liberty and a 12th-grader’s wildly realistic sculpted bust titled “Self As Alexander.” Jackson-Dumont recalled hearing multiple comments in the vein of “Michelangelo should watch out” uttered in in the vicinity of the work at the opening. 
The show is a galvanized grab-bag of subjects, media, styles and skill levels, the work a visual reflection of the artists’ heterogeneity. “People make assumptions about who is featured in a show like this,” Jackson-Dumont said. “But we’re really looking at the full spectrum of education in New York public schools. We show work by every kind of student, including students with special needs.”
When asked if there were any salient themes tying the sundry works together, Jackson-Dumont responded: “There are a lot of portraits in the show, which I think communicates a sense of self-realization.”
This year marks the 15th iteration of “P.S. Art” and the 10th housed in The Met’s hallowed halls. As the tradition continues and evolves, Jackson-Dumont hopes to expand upon the number of works selected and exhibited. Currently approximately one out of every 10 artists is selected; she hopes to see that ratio grow over time. 
“It’s a matter of expenses,” Jackson-Dumont added. “This isn’t treated like a throwaway project. All the works are framed and arranged like they would be in any other Met exhibition. The labels here are the same as the labels upstairs.” 
Another longterm goal is building awareness of these kinds of exhibitions ― those that value local community and the universality of artistic expression as opposed to the fabled genius of the dead, white chosen few. “It’s not as if these projects haven’t been happening all around the country,” Jackson-Dumont said. “And yet you can probably count on your hands the number of times you read about something like this. People, I think, are now realizing that when you nurture young people in this way, you are nurturing the next generation of young innovators.” 
Conversations about exhibitions like “P.S. Art” often end up in a similar space, discussing the indispensable impact of an arts education on a young and growing mind. “The work speaks to the quality of arts education we want to see erupting,” Jackson-Dupont said. “I continue to be blown away by the commitment teachers and educators have shown to include arts education — not as something that is ancillary but a part of the basic education system.”
For those skeptical of the effect an artistic education can have on a young person in flux, Jackson-Dupont recommends stopping by an opening of a “P.S. Art” show and watching a third grader hardly big enough to reach a microphone proudly explain the motivations behind her work. “This is a space for young people to share their voices,” she said. “To live out loud as themselves and be celebrated, not scrutinized. When we provide a space for them to be their best selves and they show up that way.”
“P.S. Art” will show at The Met until Oct. 29, 2017. Between Wednesday, June 21 and Friday, June 23, 27 artworks from the show will be projected on the Clear Channel Spectacolor sign in the center of Times Square ― 43rd and 44th Streets on Broadway. The works will be shown for four minutes every hour beginning at midnight on Wednesday, as well as for one hour on Tuesday, June 20 at 2 p.m. 
Art collector and Museum of Modern Art President Emerita Agnes Gund recently sold a multimillion-dollar painting to benefit social justice, and she’s challenging others in the art world to follow suit.
Specifically, Gund sold Roy Lichtenstein’s 1962 “Masterpiece,” which once hung over her mantel, for a cool $165 million. Proceeds from the sale will go toward the new Art for Justice Fund (A4JF), an initiative designed to support criminal justice reform at state and local levels throughout the country, primarily through the sale of art. Gund initially donated $100 million to the Fund and hopes to raise an additional $100 million over the course of the next five years.
“This is one thing I can do before I die,” Gund told The New York Times. “This is what I need to do.”
The collector added that her decision was impacted by reading Michelle Alexander’s “The New Jim Crow: Mass Incarceration in the Age of Colorblindness” and watching Ava DuVernay’s documentary “13th,” both of which address the calamitous toll the prison-industrial complex takes on black communities. Gund, who has six black grandchildren, felt personally motivated to help. 
The A4JF hopes to use its resources to curb mass incarceration in the United States, which imprisons more people than any other country in the world and disproportionately targets poor communities and people of color.
“With the creation of this fund, we have an opportunity to make a huge step toward real justice in our criminal justice system,” Darren Walker, president of the Ford Foundation, wrote to HuffPost in an email. “By supporting and investing in leading organizations and innovative programs, the Fund hopes to safely and sustainably reduce mass incarceration in the United States over the next five years.”
The Fund will provide financial support to existing organizations involved in social justice causes including those, as Walker wrote, “aimed at safely cutting the prison population in states with the highest rates of incarceration, and strengthening education and employment options for people leaving prison.”
It will also champion artistic initiatives that will invite artists to observe and respond to the injustices of the system and the lives affected by these injustices. These artistic initiatives, Walker hopes, will “spark empathy, and inspire others to work toward meaningful reform.”
The upper tiers of the art world seem to exist worlds away from much of the cruel realities of mass incarceration, wealth inequality and systemic racism. Gund hopes to spark a chain reaction among the art patrons in her circle, imploring them to consider art’s power not just as a visual object but as a vast source of social value.
“We are asking donors to make tax-deductible contributions or donate the proceeds from the sale of artwork,” Walker wrote, “but anyone can help spread word about the Art for Justice Fund. We all have a role to play in ending the injustice of mass incarceration and demonstrating the power of art to be a force for social change.”
So far, the plan seems to be working. As of now, 18 donors are listed on A4JF’s website. According to The New York Times, one contributor, Laurie M. Tisch, donated $500,000 after selling a painting by Max Weber. 
In the months since Trump’s election, artists around the country have incorporated elements of activism into their practices through myriad approaches, working to understand the roles art can and should play in the fight for a nation that serves all of its citizens, regardless of race or socioeconomic status. Gund provides a model for collectors and patrons to get involved, as well. 
Share this slide:
For every positive attribute a woman may possess ― strength, persistence, decisiveness ― there seems to be a popularly used synonym that casts the same quality in a negative light. Women who lead may be painted as curt, loud or cold ― or, worst of all, hysterical.
To combat this message, the staff at New York City’s Strand Book Store compiled a list of strong female voices who, like Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.), refuse to be silenced. 
Writes Strand: “On the heels of yet another female U.S. Senator being told to more or less ‘calm down’ while passionately doing the job she was elected to do, we are again wondering this: why are outspoken women so quickly accused of being hysterical? Being unapologetically loud and standing firm on your values are viewed very differently among genders, and when this perceived ‘hysteria’ halts progress, we have a problem.”
Below are 10 titles by women with strong, clear voices, as selected by Strand Book Store:
In a tone that is incisive, challenging and more than a little disturbing, Solnit speaks volumes on women who refuse to be silent, the gender binary, and so much more. She is fearless in addressing misogyny, the casualness of rape jokes in contemporary comedy, and the need for men to join the third wave. Reassuring and honest, this essay collection embraces modern day feminism and voices that celebrate it. Looking for more leadership? Check out Solnit’s Men Explain Things to Me, or as we consider it, the bible of “mansplaining.”
When we grow up, we want to be like Malala. With a strength that many will (thankfully) never need to channel, Malala offers forgiveness to the members of the Taliban that shot her in the head at just 15 years old in Pakistan. Her miraculous recovery can only be overshadowed by her determination to voice the need for girls’ education in a world of suppression. Through education, these girls can pursue the lives they dream of and the independence they may only read about. With her own education and determination, Malala is the youngest recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize for her efforts. 
Another example of strong women in our government, Sonia Sotomayor was the first Hispanic and third woman appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court. As many stellar female role models, Sotomayor learned early in life to depend on herself if she wanted to succeed. She was inspired by television characters in her career choice, and her sheer determination ensured that she became a lawyer and earned a degree at Yale Law School. Her memoir inspires us to take further steps to see women in every role of federal government.
A beautiful collection of essays from novelist and feminist Siri Hustvedt, author of The Blazing World and What I Loved. In the first of three sections, Hustvedt investigates how gender biases affect our perception of the world in a most timely fashion. Her feminist perspective is combined with elegant writing as she draws connections between the oft incompatible humanities and the sciences.
A wonderful story that is pro-feminine ambition, Plenty Ladylike explores the life of a woman who has faced it all. Paying her way through law school as a waitress (a trying job on its own), McCaskill has faced and overcome opposition her entire career. When seeking support on her way to the Missouri House of Representatives, voters would suggest she just go get married instead. Once she was elected, secret meetings were held by fellow politicians to block her efforts. When given every opportunity to give up, she refused, and that persistence definitely makes us a fan.
The title alone reminds us that now is not a time to be timid and quiet. Klein’s new release offers real action and strategy for countering the surreal world of politics currently dominating the U.S. She also draws a strong correlation for readers between shock politics and climate change based on two decades of extensive research. A great read on in-depth information of the current administration and how to continue the resistance.
Turn brazen into a compliment with this soon-to-be-released fireball by Buzzfeed culture writer Anne Helen Petersen. Inside, she examines pop icons who are known for their unruly attitudes (think Lena Dunham or Nicki Minaj) and tops us off with a no-nonsense analysis of why this has become a make it or break it point for today’s celebrities. Plus, you can meet Anne Helen Petersen in person at Strand for the book’s release on June 20th.
Freshly released and on the coattails of her heartbreaking collection of short stories, Difficult Women, Roxane Gay has captured us again with the new memoir, Hunger. In it, with bravery and honesty that is raw as it is resilient, Gay catalogs a lifetime with being at odds with her own body. In a society where being bigger can actually make you invisible, this book provides a voice to an underrepresented population of women here and around the world.
As an activist, professional biologist, and transsexual woman, Julia Serano provides a unique perspective on gender, tying together the social and science perspectives in one well-crafted book. She hits hard on the theme of femininity, emphasizing our predisposition to equate it with weakness and passiveness, and she explores where this theme stems from. She encourages feminist and transgender activists to reclaim “being feminine,” turning it into an empowering term for all.
A New York Times bestseller, Sex Object is praised as “an antidote to the fun and flirty feminism of selfies and self-help” by New Republic. Valenti is unabashed in nailing down the ways that sexism affects all areas of our lives. Using the her young adult life in NYC as a foundation, the personal becomes political in a memoir that is less about storytelling and more about a society that still puts women in second place.
Additional Voices:
Dear Ijeawele, Or a Feminist Manifesto in Fifteen Suggestions by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie | Adichie speaks on Feminism with Strand
Body Horror: Capitalism, Fear, Misogyny, Jokes by Anne Elizabeth Moore
Shrill by Lindy West | Lindy West on Shrill at Strand
Female Chauvinist Pigs: Women and the Rise of Raunch Culture by Ariel Levy
Bad Girls Throughout History: 100 Remarkable Women Who Changed the World by Ann Shen
Women Who Don’t Wait in Line: Break the Mold, Lead the Way by Reshma Saujiani
Double Bind: Women on Ambition edited by Robin Romm | Watch Strand’s Double Bind Panel
Second Sex by Simone de Beauvoir
Share this slide:
Dobby’s fellow house-elves never respected him. All that liberation talk was shameful ― a disgrace to the name of inherited servitude. He could have been a throwaway character in the “Harry Potter” universe, there to simply muck up Harry’s second year at Hogwarts before sinking into the scenery. But his intentions were too noble. When he wasn’t thumping his head against a wall in melodramatic self-discipline, Dobby became an iconoclast, a civil-rights advocate, a freedom fighter and the most loyal pal any witch, wizard or Muggle could envision. 
In honor of the first “Harry Potter” novel’s 20th anniversary, I am here to extol the virtues of Dobby, that squat critter who, in J.K. Rowling’s words, bears “large, bat-like ears and bulging green eyes the size of tennis balls.”
He is my favorite. Dobby embodies an altruism not enough humans aspire to. Now, with an American president who employs bullying tactics and an internet culture that lets brutes hide behind anonymous avatars, that benevolence resonates even more than it did nearly two decades ago. 
Because they don’t fight for their own rights, house-elves reflect a timeless fear: the idea that we are stuck with whatever fate dictates. But Dobby’s employment with the oppressive Malfoy clan, which comes to a blissful close when Harry’s scheme to free him works at the end of Chamber of Secrets, turns him into a resilient ideal. Being released from his harsh past bestowed in Dobby a generosity that he then showed to others. Like so many great literary figures, that generosity became his tragic flaw. 
Forever amazed by Harry and company’s most basic kindnesses, Dobby did not exploit his newfound autonomy. He remained humble. In liberating the elf, Rowling made him the backbone of a key political divide: how labor is honored within the wizarding world. House-elves are low-ranking members of the proletariat, their owners slave drivers. Freed, Dobby rightly insisted he be paid for his work, a foreign concept for house-elves, penniless creatures expected to preserve unyielding loyalty toward their masters. But he wasn’t fighting for his pocketbook ― he just wanted an emblem of respect. When Dumbledore gave Dobby a gig in the Hogwarts kitchen, Dobby negotiated downward, accepting a mere portion of the salary and benefits package offered to him. He is everything we human greed machines are not: humble, dutiful, limber. 
Rowling found optimal use for Dobby’s purity throughout the series. He brought Harry a bundle of Gillyweed during the Triwizard Tournamnet. When Winky imbibed too much Butterbeer, he hid her in the Room of Requirement, which he then recommended to Harry as a boardroom for the Voldemort-resistant Dumbledore’s Army. (Essentially, Voldemort’s demise can be traced to Dobby’s guidance.) When the vile Kreacher insulted Harry, Dobby pulverized him, tearfully insisting his cherished pal is a great wizard. Later, in the story’s most tragic death, Dobby Apparated to Malfoy Manor ― his former penitentiary ― to save Harry and crew from Bellatrix Lestrange, only to meet the cold quietus of her silver knife. By the time Harry escaped with Dobby in his arms, it was too late. Dobby died sputtering his two favorite words: “Harry ... Potter ...”
We can also credit him for fomenting Ron and Hermione’s relationship. Moved by Dobby’s plight and death, Ron suggested evacuating the house-elves during the Battle of Hogwarts, promoting Hermione to kiss him for the first time.  
For a loud-mouthed sprite whose initial appearance threatened to derail Harry’s Hogwarts trajectory, Dobby remained a champion beyond his final breath. In Harry and his comrades, he found humans who saw him as they did themselves: worthy, competent, crucial. Few of us are or have friends as lovely as Dobby, true stalwarts who look outside their own economic and emotional sorrows in the name of others’ prosperity. We need more of that right now.
I sobbed a pond of tears when my beloved little chum perished. While re-reading his death scene in “Deathly Hallows” last week, I teared up again. Harry’s mutual loyalty runs deep and rich, years after he wanted nothing more than for those tennis-ball eyes and bat-like ears to get the hell away from Privet Drive. It’s a buddy tale for the ages. 
Here lies Dobby, a free elf and a fantastic character. 
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
After 46 years, Yoko Ono is finally receiving the credit she deserves. The iconic multidisciplinary artist was officially credited as a co-writer of the 1971 song “Imagine,” currently attributed to Ono’s deceased husband, John Lennon. 
The news was announced Wednesday at a meeting of the National Music Publishers Association by its CEO, David Israelite. He also bestowed “Imagine” with the Centennial Song award. 
“While things may have been different in 1971, today I am glad to say things have changed,” Israelite said. “So tonight it is my distinct honor to correct the record some 48 years later and recognize Yoko Ono as a co-writer of the NMPA centennial song ‘Imagine,’ and to present Yoko Ono with this well-deserved credit.”
A post shared by Sean Ono Lennon (@sean_ono_lennon) on Jun 14, 2017 at 4:44pm PDT
He then played an archival interview, in which Lennon explains that the song would not exist without Ono. “[Imagine] should be credited as a Lennon-Ono song,” he said. “Because a lot of it — the lyric and the concept — came from Yoko. But those days I was a bit more selfish, a bit more macho, and I sort of omitted to mention her contribution. But it was right out of Grapefruit, her book. There’s a whole pile of pieces about ‘imagine this’ and ‘imagine that.’”
Seven years before “Imagine,” Ono self-published Grapefruit, a little gem of a book, unruly and quiet at once, filled with strange wishes and demands. “Imagine your body spreading rapidly all over the world like thin tissue,” one line reads. “Imagine cutting out one part of the tissue.” 
Sean Lennon accompanied his mother, Ono, who uses a wheelchair, onstage to accept the Centennial Song award. According to Lennon, the artist welled up with tears upon hearing the announcement. Onstage, Ono said her waning health has heightened her appreciation of the song and imbued her with a magnified esteem for being alive, Variety reported.
“This is the best time of my life,” she said, to applause.
Congratulations, Yoko. It’s about time. 
No one delivers a “how’s that?” like Patti LuPone.
While on the Tony Awards red carpet last weekend, the Broadway veteran delivered one of the night’s most succinctly biting series of remarks. If the following 12-second clip were a nominated production, it’d have walked away with a statuette for “Fire Emoji Personified.” 
"Because I hate the Motherfucker, how's that?"Patti LuPone has no chill when talking about Trump and I love it!!! pic.twitter.com/PzR1EciN6l
Let’s recap:
“Why should President Trump come see your show?” a Variety reporter, whose life was about to flash before his eyes, asked, referring to the musical Lupone is starring in ― “War Paint.” 
“Well, I hope he doesn’t, because I won’t perform if he does,” Lupone responded, curtly, her pursed lips and cheekbones blazing.
“Really?” the Variety reporter pushed, as if words were autonomously flowing from his mouth.
“Really,” Lupone countered, smiling through gritted teeth.
“Tell me why,” the reporter managed to sputter, his microphone ping-ponging between his chest and the seething face of THE Patti Lupone. 
And then she did it.
“Because I hate the motherf**cker, how’s that?” Lupone declared, her dark lipstick giving each syllable slipping out an extra dose of “IDGAF.”
End scene.
Share this slide:
Tracy K. Smith, Pulitzer Prize winner and professor of creative writing, is the next poet laureate of the United States. 
Carla Hayden, the standing Librarian of Congress, announced Wednesday that she has appointed Smith as the nation’s next poet. Smith will be taking the reins from Juan Felipe Herrera, who was appointed poet laureate twice in 2015 and 2016.
Smith, 45, received the Pulitzer Prize in 2012 for her collection of poetry titled Life on Mars, which “sends us out into the magnificent chill of the imagination and then returns us to ourselves, both changed and consoled,” according to a 2011 New York Times book review.
Smith authored two more books of poetry ― The Body’s Question (2003) and Duende (2007) ― and a memoir, Ordinary Light, which earned her the honor of National Book Award finalist for nonfiction in 2015.
Pulitzer Prize winner Tracy K. Smith will be the new U.S. #poetlaureate, @librarycongress will announce today.  https://t.co/hvb6yJIJNL pic.twitter.com/0oTVFLhm8y
Every year, the Librarian of Congress appoints one “poet laureate consultant in poetry” to serve the Library of Congress. The library’s description for the role is purposefully vague, so the poet laureate has the freedom bring to the official position whatever they desire.
The only steadfast requirement is that the laureate serves as “the nation’s official lightning rod for the poetic impulse of Americans,” according to the national library. In return, the poet laureate receives a $35,000 annual stipend, and $5,000 travel budget.
Smith told NPR that her responsibility as the nation’s poet is to “raise awareness of poetry and its value in our culture” and to bring it to those who are not yet familiar with the art form.
“To me that means talking to people — getting off the usual path of literary festivals and university reading series and talking to people who might not even yet be readers of poetry,” she told NPR.
“I would love to go to places where people might be struggling, where people might wonder if there are voices out there for them,” she added.
"I pray you are what waits/ to break back into the world" - Tracy K. Smith pic.twitter.com/xBu6hC96zM
Smith was born in Massachusetts and is the youngest of five siblings, according to NPR. She attended Harvard University for her Bachelors and received her Masters of Fine Arts in creative writing from Columbia University. Smith was a Stegner fellow at Stanford University from 1997 to 1999 and, in 2014, she was awarded with a fellowship with the Academy of American Poets.
She currently teaches at Princeton University and, according to NPR, she is working on another form of literature: opera. 
Hayden paid tribute to Smith’s poetry work for traveling the world and taking on its voices. It “brings history and memory to life; calls on the power of literature as well as science, religion, and pop culture,”the current Librarian of Congress said. “With directness and deftness, she contends with the heavens or plumbs our inner depths ― all to better understand what makes us human,” she added.
Smith sees value in sharing poetry with the country especially in today’s tense political climate.
“Poetry can help us make sense of the contemporary moment,” she told The Washington Post. 
“I’m excited by the fact that what poets are writing speaks to a particular moment and it speaks to the ages. Any political moment is uncertain, and a voice that lets us think about that will last,” Smith continued. “Let’s think about how empathy can drive our perspective of one another. Let’s think about how we can get past what’s binary and simplest to what’s complicated.”
Smith is due to begin her term as the poet laureate in September. “Wade in the Water,” her fourth book of poetry, is due in stores in April.
Share this slide:
This month, American bard Bob Dylan finally delivered his Nobel lecture, many months after he was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. The lecture, traditionally given days before the award ceremony in December, must be delivered by those who accept the award within six months. Dylan slipped in his assignment just under the deadline.
Now, however, another Nobel controversy has arisen for the singer-songwriter: Numerous outlets have reported that he may have plagiarized from SparkNotes during a long passage on Herman Melville’s Moby Dick in his long-awaited lecture. 
The discovery stems from a line in which Dylan appears to directly quote Moby Dick. “A Quaker pacifist priest, who is actually a bloodthirsty businessman, tells Flask, ‘Some men who receive injuries are led to God, others are led to bitterness,’” said Dylan. One problem: that line never appears in the actual novel.
Writer Ben Greenman noted in a blog that the quote appeared to have been fabricated. Then, Andrea Pitzer tracked down a similar quote, not in the book itself but on an entry about Moby Dick on the website SparkNotes ― a website that, like the iconic CliffsNotes, provides summaries, character descriptions and thematic breakdowns of books for students to use during study (or use to skip the reading altogether). In a Slate piece, Pitzer documents over a dozen other instances in which Dylan’s discussion of the classic book closely mirrors language found in SparkNotes.
This may seem to fall in a gray area of plagiarism ― most of the matching snippets Pitzer lists consist of phrases or pacing choices in Dylan’s summary of the book, not full sentences or passages. There’s a good chance that it was at least inadvertent: In preparing his speech, he consulted SparkNotes to brush up on his Melville, then had their framing and word choices floating in his head when he sat down to write. 
Some scholars defended his cribbing from SparkNotes to the Minnesota Star-Tribune, suggesting that it was simply an artistic allusion and even a mocking wink at the Nobel committee. “His lecture is ... meant to be a post-modern work of art,” said Alex Lubet, a music professor at the University of Minnesota. 
Maybe it was simple plagiarism. Maybe it was a brilliant, paradigm-shifting artistic web of allusion. Or maybe, and perhaps most disappointingly, Dylan was just being lazy. “He’s on the road all the time. He just turned 76,” pointed out David Yaffe, a Syracuse University professor of humanities, to the Star-Tribune. “You could see him wanting to take a few shortcuts.”
Sure, sure ― except Dylan took an extra six months on his assignment only to turn in one that was hastily cobbled together with the aid of SparkNotes. Would the professors defending the musical icon for taking such “shortcuts” have similar patience for a student who cited SparkNotes instead of the assigned text because they were overwhelmed with classwork? Perhaps ― none of my literature professors were ever impressed by such an excuse.
Stephen Fallon, John J. Cavanaugh Professor of the Humanities at the University of Notre Dame, told HuffPost, “If a student borrowed [from SparkNotes] as Dylan does here, I’d be concerned about plagiarism, but I might give Dylan a pass as he’s not implicitly claiming as his own the ideas of someone else.” Still, “the fact that he clearly turned to SparkNotes raises doubts and also the question of why he didn’t at least skim the novel again before devoting a good chunk of a Nobel lecture to it.” (Editor’s Note: Stephen Fallon is the father of this post’s author.)
Any use of SparkNotes’s interpretations, as opposed to simple plot summary, would be more troubling, he added.
The Nobel Prize in Literature often goes to writers with many decades under their belt and a host of obligations, but this typically does not preclude them from crafting an original, erudite lecture. If Dylan was incapable of doing so ― even while taking advantage of his full six-month window to compose it ― he had the option of turning down the prize. Others, such as Jean-Paul Sartre, have done so in the past. 
Instead, it seems Dylan relied on sloppy shortcuts and the work of others to turn in a musically worded but less than original piece. He’s been accused of outright plagiarism before, but more meaningfully perhaps is that he’s been accused before of creating art that simply echoes or copies others’ work without acknowledging where his originality begins and ends. In 2011, questions were raised about an exhibition of his paintings at Gagosian Gallery, which were presented as “firsthand depictions of people, street scenes, architecture and landscape.” According to The New York Times, some critics pointed out that several of the paintings seemed to be copied from photo, reproducing the work of photographers in paint without altering the framing, perspective or composition.
Dylan typically gets out of these dust-ups easily enough, as scholars and fans are willing to assume that his every move was a conscious artistic choice ― a work of collage or allusion, rather than simply a borrowed piece of work passed off as original. Reading SparkNotes for a work rather than referencing the book itself points to something else, though. Dylan may be a great songwriter, a brilliant artist, and a cultural icon, but his Nobel lecture shows signs of an intellectual laziness that wouldn’t be accepted from a freshman English literature student. What a shame.
Share this slide:
I totally get the Nobel committee. Reading books is hard.
Warning: Spoilers ahead.
It would seem that a book like The Handmaid’s Tale ― an interior story that relies heavily on flashbacks ― would be a tricky to adapt into a movie or miniseries, let alone a multi-season TV show. Yet, Hulu, the network airing the latest adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s reproductive dystopia, has renewed it for another go-around.
In Season 1, we got to know protagonist Offred: who she was before she was captured by Gilead’s authoritarian officials, the methods she uses to remain optimistic while enslaved as a sexual surrogate. These scenes made use of Atwood’s great writing, and were in keeping with the spirit of the book.
We also explored the inner lives of ancillary characters like Serena Joy and Nick, and were given their backstories; it’s likely that there will be more of these enjoyable tangents in future episodes. 
So, how else will showrunner Bruce Miller extend Atwood’s source material? It’s possible that he and his team might make use of untapped details in The Handmaid’s Tale proper, like Offred’s fraught relationship with her mother, a Second Wave feminist. Or, we may go where no Atwood fan has gone before: to the Colonies, polluted and rumored to be unlivable. Below are just a few of our predictions:
In Atwood’s novel, the heroine’s mother is a prominent character, and Offred finds herself wishing she could set the record straight with the woman who raised her. The two had their differences: Offred’s mother was a second-wave feminist, and believed her daughter took for granted all that her generation had earned for her. This relationship could be tricky to navigate on-screen, especially after Elisabeth Moss was criticized for her comments about the show’s relationship to feminism. Offred’s mother could be interpreted as expressive of the dangers of unabashed activism; in some readings of the book, second-wave feminism contributed to the backlash against it. On the other hand, Offred’s relationship with her mother could be an opportunity to explore her psyche more deeply.
In the Hulu adaptation, there are Handmaids (like Offred), there are Marthas (like Rita), there are Jezebels (like Moira) and there’s the possibility of being sent to the Colonies. In the book, there are a few other roles that women occupy, including a group called the Econowives. These women wear striped outfits of different colors, and, as the wives of lower-ranking men, must take on the responsibilities of Handmaids and Marthas, cooking, cleaning, doing other chores, and serving as reproductive vessels, too.
When Offred meets Moira among the Jezebels at a spot where high-ranking men hobnob with sex workers, Moira tells her she was granted a choice after her short-lived escape from the Red Center ― it was this or the Colonies. In both the book and the show, the Colonies ― where a toxic environment makes fertility impossible and life barely livable ― are alluded to but never visited. But, Miller said that his adaptation will go further beyond the confines of the book than it already has. It only makes sense that the Colonies could be one of the story’s next stops.
In Atwood’s original vision of Gilead, capitalism and class as they relate to the fictional theocracy are explored more fully. The above-mentioned Econowives are a part of that; their status is separate from the Handmaids and the Jezebels. But there are also small details that highlight the correlation between money, faith and power in Gilead. Prayers, for example, can be purchased from an ATM-like machine called a Soul Scroll; to see these details in the TV adaptation might make the specifics of Atwood’s dystopia even clearer.
As we saw in Season 1, the Hulu adaptation plans to take advantage of the love triangle fodder provided by the book. In the novel, we don’t know whether Luke is alive, because the story doesn’t leave Offred’s perspective. In the show, we know Luke is likely going to try to reconnect with her ― and that their daughter, taken from them after the rise of Gilead, has survived. We also know that Offred has mixed feelings about her romantic relationship with Nick, a member of the secret police known as Eyes, who’s likely the father of the child she’s now pregnant with. 
We know that the burden of infertility has fallen completely on women in Gilead, even as men like the Commander, the Fred to our Offred, are likely sterile due to age, environmental factors, or both. In Season 1, Offred offers an aside, commenting on sterility and how the word is never uttered in her new life. It’s possible that the impact of male sterility on the sharp decline in pregnancies and births will be a plot point in the show’s coming seasons.
In the book, Japanese tourists take pictures of the Handmaids, while themselves wearing open-toed shoes and other clothes that the Aunts would deem immodest. In the show, Offred allows herself to feel hopeful when a Mexico’s ambassador visits, but those hopes are ultimately dashed. And in the finale, we learn that Moira has successfully escaped to Canada, and has reunited with Luke. The pair will surely try to rescue Offred, and we’ll likely learn about the world beyond Gilead in the process.
In the season finale, Serena Joy confronts Fred about his outings with Offred, coyly offering to play Scrabble with him and suggesting that she’s aware of his dalliances with their Handmaid. But Fred declines, telling her she knows the rules (re: women reading, even something as simple as letters on wooden blocks). Tersely, Serena Joy responds that she helped write them. Now that the results of her ideals in action aren’t as family-centric as she’d hoped, Serena Joy’s bound to take action.
The season finale ends with the same lines as the book; Offred enters the darkness, or else the light. We’re not told for sure whether the black van that’s collected her is affiliated with the resistance, known as Mayday, or with the Eyes, but Nick’s involvement, and his good-guy status on the show, suggest that she’s headed somewhere safe. Where she’ll go from there, we’ll have to wait to find out.
Correction: An earlier version of this article mistakenly referred to a character as a head of state in Mexico, rather than Ambassador of Mexico to the United States. 
Having become one of the most recognizable faces in both television news and queer activism, Janet Mock is a forerunner for transgender visibility. Her new memoir, Surpassing Certainty: What My Twenties Taught Me, chronicles Mock’s journey from a college student moonlighting as a stripper to an aspiring media figure battling gender conventions.
HuffPost has an exclusive clip from Mock’s Surpassing Certainty audio book, in which she recounts her experiences as a night-club dancer. “It went way deeper than mere sexuality,” she reads. “Your duty was to be amiable, available and flirtatious. ... You were selling a girlfriend experience.” 
Surpassing Certainty is now available.
Roxane Gay, the author of several critically acclaimed books including Bad Feminist, Difficult Women and the just-released Hunger: A Memoir of (My) Body, endured what she’s appropriately described as “cruel and humiliating” treatment at the hands of Australia’s self-described “largest independent women’s website.”
Anyone who follows the feminist author on Twitter knows that Gay has been making the interview rounds ahead of Hunger’s debut, a book that details Gay’s experience “learning how to feed your hunger while taking care of yourself.”
Australian site Mamamia was afforded the opportunity to speak with her back in May, and as an “appalled” Gay said, the experience has been “a shit show.”
I am appalled by Mamamia. It was a shit show. I can walk a fucking mile. https://t.co/14RNv2Ig0B
"Can she fit into the lift?" Shame on you @Mamamia https://t.co/14RNv2Ig0B
It is cruel and humiliating. https://t.co/XY2AU0XPFG
In an attempt to introduce the podcast interview with Gay, Mamamia appears to have disclosed a list of the author’s personal requests, breaching confidentiality. A description featured on the site’s No Filter podcast on Monday (and captured in screenshots since it was deleted) disclosed a litany of preparations the website underwent in order to interview Gay.
“A lot of planning has to go into a visit from [the] best-selling author,” the description read, listing a series of questions: “Will she fit into the office lift? How many steps will she have to take to get to the interview? Is there a comfortable chair that will accommodate her six-foot-three, ‘super-morbidly obese’ frame?”
Oh Mamamia. When good intentions just do so much damage... this is appalling pic.twitter.com/Kni2nKpvkp
Mamamia’s co-founder and creative director Mia Freedman expounded upon the preparations in a now-deleted article (you can see the cached version here).
“Her size is imposing and also a logistical nightmare for her,” Freedman wrote. “The requirements back and forth with her publishers who had brought her out to Australia to promote her books were extremely detailed.” 
Reiterating the above questions, she also claimed “[t]here was also a lot of talk about chairs ― making sure we had one sturdy enough to both hold her weight and make sure she was comfortable.”
Justifying the confidentiality breach, Freedman said the details were “a fundamental part of the story.”
“You see, Roxane Gay is ... I’m searching for the right word to use here. I don’t want to say fat so I’m going to use the official medical term: super morbidly obese.”
Whatever.  Just what the fuck ever.
Many, many of Gay’s readers have pointed out Mamamia’s treatment of Gay completely misses the point of Hunger itself. In an interview with Trevor Noah, Gay explained the motivations for writing the book.
“I wanted to tell the story of my body, because when you’re fat in the world, people have assumptions,” she said. “They assume you’re stupid. ... I think it’s important to show what it’s actually like to live in this world in a fat body.”
Mamamia has since apologized, releasing a statement that reads in part:
In no way did Mamamia ever intend to make Roxane Gay feel disrespected and we apologise unequivocally that that was the unintended consequence, including to her publishing team who organised the visit and made the requests in good faith. We are mortified to think she would ever believe this to be the case or that we have upset someone we so deeply admire and respect.
As soon as we became aware of her feelings about it, we took down the written post, edited the podcast intro and changed the podcast description to remove all references to the questions asked by her publishers and about details she said she found upsetting.
“As a publisher that’s championed body diversity and representation in the media we’re deeply apologetic that in this instance we’ve missed the mark in contributing to this discussion,” Mamamia admitted. “We believe the conversations sparked by Roxane’s book are vitally important for women to have, and are disappointed our execution hasn’t contributed in the way we intended.”
A 400-year-old play by an underground playwright named William Shakespeare is making headlines this week after The Public Theater’s recent production of “Julius Caesar” angered some viewers (and hence corporate sponsors) by portraying the Roman ruler with a curious likeness to President Donald Trump.
Spoiler alert: The Trump-Caesar resemblance is causing tension because, as any Shakespeare or “Mean Girls” devotee knows, Caesar is assassinated in the course of the play. Or, as Fox & Friends reported, “President Trump [is] brutally stabbed to death by women and minorities.” 
Of course, Shakespeare did not pen his bloody death sequence with Trump in mind. Nevertheless, artistic director Oskar Eustis’ decision to stage the killing of a mercurial, blonde-haired ruler in an ill-fitting suit and too-long red tie has drawn criticism from some viewers, various right-wing media outlets and Donald Trump Jr.
I wonder how much of this "art" is funded by taxpayers? Serious question, when does "art" become political speech & does that change things? https://t.co/JfOmLLBJCn
Delta Airlines and Bank of America responded to the firestorm by withdrawing financial support from the production, which is currently running at Central Park’s Delacorte Theater as part of New York’s famed Shakespeare in the Park festival.
Delta released a statement condemning the performance’s “graphic staging,” describing the show’s artistic and creative direction as having “crossed the line on the standards of good taste.” A spokeswoman for Bank of America similarly lamented that “The Public Theater chose to present ‘Julius Caesar’ in a way that was intended to provoke and offend.” American Express also tweeted that the company does not “condone the interpretation of the Julius Caesar play” despite its continued sponsorship of The Public Theater’s other endeavors.
As corporations severed ties to the show, theater buffs and high school English honors students were quick to call out the absurdity of the denunciations ― not only because of a little thing called freedom of speech, but because many don’t quite seem to recall what the whole message of “Julius Caesar” actually is. 
THE ENTIRE GODDAMN PLAY IS ABOUT ASSASSINATION BEING A TOTAL DISASTER! THE PATH TO RUIN!!! Read a book for the love of God.
Yes, Eustis’ production of “Julius Caesar” features, in no subtle terms, a Trumpian ruler being stabbed to death by senators, ostensibly, for the good of their nation. But the remainder of the play hashes out how this decision to off a tyrannical ruler in such an undemocratic manner yields nothing but disaster. 
As New York Times’ Jesse Green wrote in his review of the show: “Even a cursory reading of the play, the kind that many American teenagers give it in high school, is enough to show that it does not advocate assassination. Shakespeare portrays the killing of Caesar by seven of his fellow senators as an unmitigated disaster for Rome, no matter how patriotic the intentions.”
For those whose memories have faded a bit since 11th grade, a brief refresher: “Julius Caesar” tells the tale of a demagogue ruling the Roman republic in 44 B.C. A conspiracy grows against the ruler, a man senators feel has grown tyrannical and threatens the future of the nation. In the famed Act 3, Scene 1, Caesar is killed by his fellow statesmen under the guise of patriotism. 
Yet the decision to kill Caesar ends up shattering Rome’s democracy, rather than saving it. The play, then, warns viewers against violent reactions to despotic rule. As Eustis wrote in a note regarding the show: “’Julius Caesar’ can be read as a warning parable to those who try to fight for democracy by undemocratic means. To fight the tyrant does not mean imitating him.”
To suggest the production advocates for or excuses violence in any way is just false. If anything, the play suggests the very opposite, advising against the power-hungriness both Caesar and his opponents embody. If the advice is not heeded, as Gregg Henry, the actor playing Caesar at The Public, warned cheekily in an interview with Backstage: “You can end up losing democracy for like, 2,000 years.”
For some viewers, however, the message of Shakespeare’s words has faded into the background, overshadowed by the visceral power of a Trump-like actor’s white shirt stained with fake blood making its rounds across social media.
One named Laura Shaeffer expressed her disgust in an interview with Mediaite. “To be honest I thought it was shocking and distasteful,” she said. “If this had happened to any other president — even as recently as Barack Obama or George W. Bush — it would not have flown. People would have been horrified.”
Fair enough, except past productions have featured Caesar in the guise of both presidents listed above, among others.
Presidents portrayed as Julius Caesar in U.S. productions: Lincoln, Reagan, Clinton, GWB, Obama, Trump. (Caesar died in all of them.)
In a 2013 review of “Julius Caesar” at Minneapolis St. Paul’s Guthrie Theater, a critic for Mpls St Paul Magazine described the value of casting Caesar as a “tall, lanky black man,” despite the resemblance being “too obvious.”
“Like Caesar, Obama rose to power on a tide of public goodwill,” the piece reads, “like Caesar, there were many in government who doubted Obama’s leadership abilities; and now that Obama’s first term has failed to live up to the messianic hype, there are plenty of people who — for the good of the country, you understand, not their own glory — want to take Obama down.”
So, this whole cast-a-Shakespearian-tale-in-modern-day-light thing is nothing new. It’s actually, a centuries-old practice. And Trump isn’t being forced to endure anything to which previous American presidents haven’t already been subjected. For eons, political leaders have been accused of greed, egotism and a lust for power. Democracy, as a result, can feel fragile ― if not under siege. Art exists in times like these to illuminate the patterns between past and present while untangling the particulars that distinguish each. It can stir provocation, yes, but also reflection, dissent and enlightenment. 
The theater is often viewed as a space for pushing boundaries and critical thinking. In this production, despite the bloodshed onstage, no real person leaves wounded or endangered; audiences are not encouraged to wreck havoc on any American politician. (In fact, quite the opposite.) To suggest the staging of one of the most esteemed dramas of all time is “political speech” targeted directly and uniquely at Trump not only ignores the play’s message, but its history, too.  
As one seemingly incredulous viewer said in a video interview with Inside Edition: “It’s not really the president, it’s theater. Everyone knows it’s theater.” 
Have plans to see "Julius Caesar" (Shakespeare-in-the-Park)  in thrilled defiance of ignorant would-be censors  (Faux News, Delta airlines).
Julius Caesar is slated to run at Central Park’s Delacorte Theater until June 18 as part of New York’s Shakespeare in the Park festival. Tickets are free.
Welcome to Battleground, where art and activism meet.
You’ve spent the last 20 years reading the “Harry Potter” series, watching the movies, rereading and rewatching ad nauseam, attending themed trivia nights, dressing up for parties where everyone is drinking Butterbeer, and traveling hours to visit The Wizarding World of Harry Potter theme park.
You’re a real Potterhead.
But have you really mastered the secrets of J.K. Rowling’s seven magical novels? 
There’s only one way to find out whether you’re as knowledgeable as Hermione in a Transfiguration class ― or whether your head is “bare and full of air, dead flies and bits of fluff.” This Nastily Exhausting Wizard Trivia will thoroughly test your proficiency and assess, once and for all, whether you’re a true “Harry Potter” expert.
Take out your self-inking quills, unroll your parchment and begin!
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
“The story of my body is not a story of triumph,” Roxane Gay writes in her new memoir, Hunger, which publishes June 13. “This is not a weight-loss memoir.”
Instead, Gay ― the author of Difficult Women, Bad Feminist and An Untamed State ― explores her relationship to her body before and after the sexual violence that would rattle her youth.
Gay discussed her new book Monday on “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah.” 
“As a comedian, I’ve made a lot of fat jokes,” Noah said in his conversation with Gay. So he was intent on listening to what Gay had to say about her experiences rather than continuing to equate fatness with farce.
Gay explained that she often feels uncomfortable on airplanes, at movie theaters and even at her own book signings, where readers and fans have offered her unsolicited weight-loss advice. 
“At the grocery store, people make commentary about what they see in your cart,” Gay said. “You don’t fit in the world, oftentimes. The world is not really interested in creating a space for you to fit.” 
Gay also shared a story from her childhood, when she was gang raped at the age of 12, before she was old enough to understand what happened to her.
“It was so unexpected,” Gay said. “I just thought, ‘I want to be stronger. I want to be bigger.’ ... It was a deliberate choice.” 
Hunger isn’t her first experience with discussing assault and its aftermath. For The Rumpus online literary magazine, she wrote about the careless language of sexual violence and other essays based on her experiences.
In Hunger, she writes, “I ate and ate and ate in the hopes that if I made myself big, my body would be safe.” This feeling courses throughout the book, which is subtitled A Memoir of (My) Body.
On “The Daily Show,” describing her motivations for writing the book, Gay said, “I wanted to tell the story of my body, because when you’re fat in the world, people have assumptions. They assume you’re stupid. ... I think it’s important to show what it’s actually like to live in this world in a fat body.”
Buy it on Amazon or at your local indie bookstore. 
As critics denounce a Trumped-up version of Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar,” actors, writers and illustrators are pledging their support for one of New York City’s most beloved cultural attractions.
Every summer Shakespeare in the Park arrives in New York City, bringing with it free stagings of the Bard’s best works, sometimes updated to appeal to modern audiences flocking to Central Park to see a play.
This year, that was certainly the case. The Public theater’s update of “Julius Caesar,” Shakespeare’s famous play about the assassination of the titular Roman dictator, features a Trumped-up storyline in which Caesar, golden hair and all, wears a business suit instead of a toga. His wife Calpurnia dresses in silk and high heels, speaking with what’s been described as a “heavy Slavic accent.” An American flag can be seen waving onstage. 
The decision to infuse the story of Caesar with the spirit of today’s political mania ― to base the main character on U.S. President Donald Trump ― was a bold one. (Though hardly unprecedented; for example, a 2012 American Conservative article recounts a version of the play with an Obama-esque Caesar.) Bold because in the production, the leader of Rome is assassinated, stabbed to death by senators who felt his death would be best for their troubled republic. So in director Oskar Eustis’ rendition, a figure that looks an awful lot like Trump dies at the hands of ardent critics every night of the play’s run.
When Fox News and the corporations sponsoring The Public Theater caught wind of the death, they, still digesting the bloody antics of comedian Kathy Griffin, bridled. Delta and Bank of America pulled their support for the play. Appalled citizens made their opinions known on Twitter, threatening to boycott the free program.
While the outrage machine seemed to be throttling forward, a few famous artists, actors and writers took to social media to disrupt the current of negativity and defend Eustis and the staging of “Julius Caesar.” While some did so by simply pointing out the fact that detractors were largely misunderstanding the very essence of the play, others began rallying support for the theater by pledging to see the show and donate to The Public. 
Have plans to see "Julius Caesar" (Shakespeare-in-the-Park)  in thrilled defiance of ignorant would-be censors  (Faux News, Delta airlines).
Offer good for donations of $25 or more until final show of #JuliusCeasar on June 18th. https://t.co/qmnV7eLK2z DM me receipt and address. pic.twitter.com/6TL2s8dgS4
Going to the opening of @PublicTheaterNY JULIUS CAESAR tonight to support the arts unlike @Delta and @BankofAmerica . Shame on both of you.
To avoid further censorship in art, you may donate to The Public here: https://t.co/e8ZdGBk18p
I’m going to Shakespeare in the Park tomorrow. Prepared to be simultaneously thrilled and horrified at the tyrant’s bloody demise.
New Yorker cartoonist Tom Toro promised to give those who donated more than $25 to The Public a free print of a themed illustration, which reads, “Just when you’re about to lose your faith in humanity, you see Shakespeare in the Park.” Actress Amber Tamblyn and author Joyce Carol Oates tweeted their intent to see “Julius Caesar” despite Delta’s lack of support. Others, like Nia Vardalos, shared links to The Public’s donation page.
While those strongly opposed to the “Julius Caesar” play have expressed that they don’t want their tax dollars used to fund what they have perceived as an anti-Trump artwork, the National Endowment for the Arts cleared up those concerns quickly: “No taxpayer dollars support Shakespeare in the Park’s production of ‘Julius Caesar,’” it announced in a statement.
And in response to those choosing to boycott The Public, a few individuals have in turn suggested boycotting corporations like Delta, who’ve pulled their support unwisely. 
“Maybe we should be less concerned that Shakespeare in the Park staged Caesar & more that Caesar calls Trump to mind?” author Celeste Ng tweeted. “Just a thought, @delta.”
No taxpayer dollars support Shakespeare in the Park's production of Julius Caesar. https://t.co/6idALJzDcY @foxandfriends
Maybe we should be less concerned that Shakespeare in the Park staged Caesar & more that Caesar calls Trump to mind? Just a thought, @delta.
After they pulled support for the @PublicTheaterNY, I will no longer be using @Delta for my airline needs. #BoycottDelta
Those familiar with Shakespeare’s centuries-old work know the playwright presents Caesar’s death as a disastrous event for Rome. The murder is similarly depicted in The Public’s production as an inarguable mistake on behalf of those American democrats who felt deposing of a tyrant through violence and illegal means was an act of patriotism.
“’Julius Caesar’ is about how fragile democracy is,” Eustis wrote in a statement about the play before it even opened. “The institutions that we have grown up with, that we have inherited from the struggle of many generations of our ancestors, can be swept away in no time at all.”
Shakespeare in the Park to liberal New Yorkers: If your hatred of Trump leads to violence you will destroy the RepublicFox News: AN OUTRAGE
In a more recent statement from The Public Theater, the organization affirmed that it stands “completely behind our production of Julius Caesar. We recognize that our interpretation of the play has provoked heated discussion [...] such discussion is exactly the goal of our civically-engaged theater; this discourse is the basis of a healthy democracy.”
The theater also reiterated that it in no way condones violence towards anyone. In fact, it makes the exact opposite point: “Those who attempt to defend democracy by undemocratic means pay a terrible price and destroy the very thing they are fighting to save.”
#WeAreOnePublic. pic.twitter.com/HkOKxFIKsT
Julius Caesar is slated to run at Central Park’s Delacorte Theater until June 18 as part of New York’s Shakespeare in the Park festival. Tickets are free.
Share this slide:
Monday, June 12, marks the 50th anniversary of the landmark United States Supreme Court decision Loving v. Virginia, which quashed anti-miscegenation laws in 16 states around the nation, ushering restrictions against interracial marriage to the wrong side of history. 
The date is now remembered as Loving Day in honor of Richard and Mildred Loving, the couple who defied the state’s ability to dictate the terms of their love based on their skin color. Mildred, who was of African American and Native American descent, and Richard, who was white, wed in 1958 in Washington D.C., because interracial marriage was illegal in their native rural Virginia, as well as 15 other Southern U.S. states.
When the Lovings returned to Virginia, however, local police raided their home one early morning after being tipped off by another resident. They declared the Lovings’ marriage license invalid within the scope of the state, placing the couple under arrest.
The Lovings pled guilty to “cohabiting as man and wife, against the peace and dignity of the Commonwealth,” and were sentenced to one year in prison. A judge later agreed to suspend the sentence if Mildred and Richard left Virginia and did not return for 25 years. 
The couple relocated to Washington, D.C., but they did not end their story there. In 1964, attorneys from the ACLU filed a motion on behalf of the Lovings, requesting the charges and sentences against the Lovings be dropped. The Lovings appealed the local ruling all the way to the Supreme Court, where their sentence was unanimously overturned in 1967.
“Under our Constitution,” Chief Justice Earl Warren said in his decision, “the freedom to marry, or not marry, a person of another race resides with the individual and cannot be infringed by the State.”
Two years before this verdict, in the spring of 1965, Life magazine photojournalist Grey Villet spent time with the Lovings, as well as their family and friends, documenting the lives of a couple whose love had transcended the everyday to become the stuff of legends. 
Villet’s photo essay, titled “The Lovings: An Intimate Portrait,” captures Mildred and Richard when word of their civil rights battle was spreading throughout the country and the fate of their relationship remained unknown. Through black-and-white images, the photographer captures the subtle glances, spurts of laughter and moments of quiet determination that, together, comprise a love story whose power echoes today. 
We commemorate the Lovings’ bravery and tenacity in the face of prejudice and the systems of white supremacy. Villet’s photos help us remember the Lovings not just for what they represented, but who they were. The simple moments of connection, support and companionship that provided the strength to change the world. 
The Lovings: An Intimate Portrait is available on Amazon. 
The Divine Miss M just made personal Tonys history.
Bette Midler, star of the Broadway revival of “Hello, Dolly!,” won her first competitive Tony award on Sunday night, taking home the statuette for Best Actress in a Musical. She’d previously won a special (non-competitive) award in 1974 for “adding lustre to the Broadway season,” but, at 71, she finally nabbed the recognition she deserved.
“I’m so privileged. I’m so honored,” she said as she accepted her award. “I hope I don’t cry,” she added, before joking about dating most of the Tony voters.
Watch @BetteMidler's (amazing) #TonyAwards acceptance speech https://t.co/IzCPrnZDhI pic.twitter.com/dkxNzM69zw
Midler’s speech was probably one of the longest of the night ― the orchestra attempted to play her off, but she continued speaking, outlasting the musical crescendo. “Shut that crap off,” she yelled at one point.
“Revival is an interesting word,” she could be heard saying when the music stopped. “It means ‘near death.’”
She wrapped up by telling audiences that “Hello, Dolly!” had never really gone away, encouraging everyone to see the classic show.
Born in 1945, Midler made her Broadway debut in “Fiddler on the Roof” in 1964. Throughout out her decadeslong career in show business, the singer-songwriter-actor-comedian won several Grammys and Emmys, leaving her one letter away from the coveted EGOT designation. She’s been twice-nominated for an Oscar for her roles in “The Rose” and “For the Boys,” but has yet to secure an Academy Award.
In fact, in 1979, Midler lost an Oscar to “Norma Rae” actress Sally Field, who, this year, was also nominated for a Tony for Best Actress in a Play for her role in “The Glass Menagerie.” But Field lost the award to”A Doll’s House, Part 2” actress Laurie Metcalf. So ... what goes around, comes around?
“Hello, Dolly!,” based on Thornton Wilder’s 1938 play “The Merchant of Yonkers,” was famously adapted into a movie starring Barbra Streisand. It tells the story of a matchmaker, Dolly Levi ― played by Midler in the 2017 production ― a professional meddler who falls for a “client,” the grumpy near-millionaire Horace Vandergelder. 
Check out more of the 2017 Tony Award winners here.
Share this slide:
The ongoing harassment many women-seeking-men endure on dating apps across the internet is ... exhausting.
The presumptuous pickup lines, the aggressive responses to rejection, the  #NotAllMen evangelism, and, most potent of all, the unsolicited dick pics. Years ago, the penis-photo-we-did-not-ask-for was a horrifying anomaly. Today, the dick pic is everywhere, a sinister reminder of sexual harassment’s gross ubiquity online.
“This behavior is so commonplace we have all just accepted it as the norm,” Whitney Bell explained to HuffPost.
Bell is the woman behind “I Didn’t Ask For This,” an exhibition of over 150 real, unsolicited dick pics received by the artist and other women she knows. Displayed in a gallery furnished to look like your BFF’s apartment, the framed pictures are meant to evoke the feeling women get when a dick pic arrives. You’re sitting on your couch among your throw pillows, floral lamps and vintage suitcases when, all of a sudden, a man’s penis has overtaken your screen. It’s that easy to make a woman feel unsafe in her own home.
“When you put hundreds of dicks and the aggressive comments that accompany them up on display like this, the absurdity of it almost becomes comical,” Bell said. “I was fed up with the harassment and the threats, fed up with feeling unsafe. I was done quietly accepting harassment as my reality.” 
Her show, a version of which was previously on view in Los Angeles, opened in San Francisco on Friday. According to the artist, the exhibition is not intended to shame men, penises, or men with penises. Instead, Bell wants “to expose the normalization of misogyny ― especially online,” to provide a forum where people who are both shocked by or numbed to the practice of sending dick pics can talk about everyday harassment.
Whose dicks are featured in the show? “The river of dicks that line the gallery walls were sent by just that: Total fucking dicks. Unsolicited, unwanted dicks.” Bell, a woman whose life has been lived fairly publicly online, received a fair share herself; the rest came from female friends and members of feminist organizations who needed only open their old Tinder accounts to find a suitable addition to Bell’s show.
Bell is adamant that the collection of pics, accompanied by other work from 30 artists exploring “the female condition,” is not a form of “revenge porn.” When asked how she’d respond to people who think otherwise, she replied: 
Much like the All Lives Matter “activists” who crash Black Lives Matter protests, these people don’t really care about what they claim to. If you were really concerned about All Lives, or about harassment, you wouldn’t only bring it up as a response to a marginalized group’s plea for visibility. Do you really think your time is best spent defending men who use their genitalia to harass and intimidate women online? Do you really think that harassing the harassed for calling out harassment is beneficial to anyone? I implore you to pick a better battle. 
She does acknowledge that the “rules of dick pic sending” function differently in straight and gay communities. While she understands that abuse and harassment exist in queer spaces, her goal was not to lessen the experience of LGBTQ individuals by focusing on straight women, but to “highlight the the overwhelming issue of heterosexual harassment inflicted upon women. Most specifically I wanted to address the societally endorsed behavior of men attempting to exert their control over women through aggressive sexual advances.”
At the end of the day, Bell hopes those visiting her show will “look beyond the hundreds of penises and the threatening comments that line the walls,” and realize that the issue of sexual harassment is much larger than a few (or, in this case, 150) dick pics.
“I urge them to recognize how little respect many men have for women and that it’s high time we stop sweeping aside our daily harassment as routine.” 
See some of the original artworks by women on view at “I Didn’t Ask For This: A Lifetime Of Dick Pics” until June 11 at SOMArts Cultural Center below.
According to Bell, tickets for the Friday show have already sold out, though there will be a few hundred more available at the door, as well. If you’re in the mood to see the pics IRL, Bell suggests trying Saturday. “Go to brunch then come peep some peen.”
A portion of the proceeds from Bell’s show is being donated to We Are #HappyPeriod, which supplies homeless individuals with the menstrual products they need. Bonus: If you bring a box of tampons or pads to donate, you’ll receive a free drink ticket.
Earlier this year, Penguin Random House announced it would take Mark Twain’s ephemera and transform it into a full-fledged children’s story. The resulting chapter book ― The Purloining of Prince Oleomargarine ― will be published in September.
The book is based on a 16-page story recorded by Twain in 1879, after he told it aloud to his daughters before bed. In it, a young man is granted the ability to speak to animals ― including his beloved pet chicken ― and his gift helps him on his quest to save a young prince.
The book is co-written by Twain and Philip Stead, who used the classic author’s notes to craft the tale. Erin Stead, a Caldecott-winning artist, is its illustrator. 
The below excerpt is from the first chapter of The Purloining of Prince Oleomargarine. 
If we concentrate very carefully now, we will find ourselves in exactly the place we need to be. In fact, we will find ourselves in a land not all that far from here — not all that far, but hard enough to find that you’re likely never to get there. I have tried. This land has a name, but it is much too difficult to pronounce. It would not be dignified to try.
Of course, our land, the United States of America, rolls effortlessly off the tongue and is so easy to find that you’re likely to spend half your life looking for the way out. So already, you see, we’ve described two differences between Here and There.
Another difference to consider: In the hard-to-find-and-difficult-to-pronounce land in which our story takes place, the luckless and hungry remain luckless and hungry for all of their lives. By contrast, in the United States of America, everyone and everything is given a fair and equal chance. It would be rude to believe otherwise!
Here — be it Michigan or Missouri — the luckless and hungry are likely to stub a toe, look down, and discover at their feet a soup bowl full of gold bullion. Eureka! But There, the luckless and hungry are likely to stub a toe, look down, and discover only the dried-up root of a withered, old apple tree.
Which is exactly what Johnny, our hero, has just discovered —
“Eureka!” he exclaimed. He said Eureka!, and not something far worse, because long ago he’d made up his mind never to swear — not even when swearing was the necessity of a situation (as it often is). Johnny’s poor, wretched grandfather swore often enough for the both of them. His cursings hung like a cloud over their unhappy home. Once, when Johnny was very young, a flock of pigeons became lost in this fog and dropped dead from despair, the whole lot of “them belly-up on the roof. That is a fact. And it is, also, the reason that Johnny chose to carry a moral compass, in case he, too, ever became lost and needed to find his way.
Johnny had known no other family. And to say he knew his grandfather would be an optimism at best. And since a great many of the world’s tragedies, big and small, were first thunk up in the minds of optimists, we will do humanity a favor now and stick to the cold facts: 
Johnny’s grandfather was a bad man.
Johnny’s only true companion was a melancholic chicken with a peculiar name. Her name was: Pestilence and Famine. Presumably at some time in the past, there were two chickens — one Pestilence and one Famine. But again, we must stick to the facts. Now there is one chicken, and she goes by two names.
Pestilence and Famine wandered over to peck weakly at Johnny’s battered toe in sympathy.
“Thank you,” said Johnny. “I think it will be alright.” He hopped around on one foot. The chicken did likewise, thinking it the thing to do. Johnny smiled at his old friend.
This is how our chicken got her name —
For as long as Johnny could remember, his grandfather would greet the day by thundering out into the yard, kicking dirt into the air, and calling out to no one in particular, Pestilence and famine! Pestilence and famine! Pestilence and Famine thought this was great fun. She would set down her melancholy for a moment, prance around on skinny legs, and flap her ragged wings in delight. Then Johnny’s grandfather would go inside, lie down on the dirt floor, and nap till well past noon. As he slept, he would coo softly and sing a gentle love song. This was when Johnny loved his grandfather best.
Johnny had never heard two words of kindness from his grandfather. And so it was a great surprise to Johnny when his grandfather stepped out of their broken-down shack and into the yard to ask, “Are you alright? Can you walk?”
Johnny’s heart filled with happiness. “Yes!” he said. “I will be alright, thank you!”
“Good,” replied his grandfather. “Then walk to market and sell that chicken for something worth eating.”
Share this slide:
Earlier this year, Evanna Lynch ― the actress who got her start when she was cast at Luna Lovegood in the “Harry Potter” film series ― announced on Instagram that she was ready to take on new endeavors.
“I feel like I’m stuck in my 18-year-old self artistically when I actually have a lot more to say,” the actress wrote on Instagram, addressing her choice to move on from regularly attending “Harry Potter” conventions.
 
Now, just a few months later, she’s starring in a forthcoming play in London, an update on Enda Walsh’s “Disco Pigs,” a story about a pair of teens who speak in their own intimate, expressive language. Lynch says the play is in keeping with the types of roles she hopes to pursue in the future: bold characters and unabashed misfits.
Below, Lynch discusses her recent starring role in the indie film “My Name is Emily,” and why she can’t help but return to Hogwarts stories, which, she says, have a “resetting effect” on her.
First, I’d love to hear about  “Disco Pigs.” How did you get involved with the project?
I wanted to do theater for a while, but I only recently moved to London so I only had that opportunity for a while.
I loved the script; it was so different from anything I’d read before. The language is so strange and idiosyncratic. I find the story very romantic. It’s these two teenagers, and they have their own little world. I always connect to characters who do things their own way, and who don’t really set their standards by other people.
What for you was the biggest difference between stage acting and on-screen acting? 
On-screen it’s nice because you get to film over a long period of time. Stage is different because ― for this play, anyway, it’s only an hour. Whereas on film you mull with it, you know, a month to six weeks, probably six to eight weeks, you’re with the character every single day, obsessed with them, thinking of them.
[In theater] you’re running on adrenaline. There’s a lot of fear. That aspect you don’t have in film, which is nice, it takes the pressure off.
You also had a fairly recent film that was released in the U.S. this year, “My Name is Emily.” This was your first starring role in a film. How was that experience different from your past work?
For one thing it was an independent movie, so there were a lot fewer resources. More responsibility, which I find very exciting. I felt like I was more of a collaborator. And I don’t know if that’s just about the position I was in, or if that’s my age. Because when I started the “Potter” films I was 14, I was more of a child, and on “My Name Is Emily,” that was the first time I was a collaborating artist. That was really exciting.
I just focused on the work. I’m not trying to make friends with everyone. I’ve seen with other films, the central cast member will try to really welcome everyone and I thought about that, but it’s just not me. I’m quite shy, I’m quite introverted, I like to sit and watch people. I feel like that’s how I learn about people, how I study them. So, it wasn’t a whole lot different for me. Yes, there was added pressure, but you have to do everything you can to not think about the pressure. 
By the time you were cast as Luna you were already a fan of the “Potter” books. What did you love most about the books?
I just loved it because it really felt like I understood the people ― the teenagers. I just felt like they were my friends. I loved that it was just like a bunch of misfits, and they were the heroes of the story. And I’d never read a book series before where the characters were so relatable, and inspiring in how relatable they were. I felt what they were doing, and what they were grappling with. The books just had this amazing ability to make me feel not alone. And I think I went through most of primary school and high school just feeling like I hadn’t really met my people, and “Harry Potter” felt like my people. They were the kind of friends I wanted to have.
Of course it was also a more fascinating world than what I was involved in. It just made me believe in things that were different.
I actually read Prisoner of Azkaban around Christmastime. I had a craving for it; I don’t know why. I often do press events and conventions, and I get asked a lot of questions. It was a point of pride that I was like a walking encyclopedia for the books. And I realized my trivia had been slipping the last few years. I was like, oh, this can’t fall away. This is something I need to maintain.
It’s just me being a nerd. The books almost have a resetting effect on me. They bring me back to who I am. And the films are sort of different because it became a career, and it’s so entwined with who I am as a public figure, which I don’t want to think about when I’m reading. The books still remind me of who I am.
Do you have a favorite “Potter” character besides Luna?
I always liked Dumbledore because he’s so wise, and he’s got such a deep mind and thinks so deeply on things, but he’s also able to enjoy the finer things in life. I like that.
And then recently I realized I really like [Gilderoy] Lockhart. I sort of admire that obliviousness he has. He doesn’t seem to be aware of what people think of him, or that not everyone wants his autograph. I think I’m probably too self-conscious. Not in an insecure way, but I have this paranoid thing where I’ll often think people are giving me a weird look or something. My best friend always points it out, he’s like, really, it’s not about you. […] My mind makes up weird stories, and I started to really love Lockhart for how he doesn’t do that. He does the opposite. He assumes everyone loves him. I just think it’s so funny.
I want to ask about your activist work. It seems that you use your platform to promote your causes ― especially veganism. Do you foresee yourself trying for roles that promote your political message?
For me, art can be political, but I don’t think you should force it. I think the best way to make people feel is just story for the sake of story.
I mean, I do often think about maybe working on a book or something like that, told from the animals’ eyes. The stories that really inspired me to be vegan ― well, vegetarian first, and then vegan ― and just to care about animals in the first place, were things like watching “Babe,” or watching “Chicken Run.” That, I think, is a very powerful tool. Other than that I do like to keep activism and art separate. I think if you try too hard for it to be worthy and have a message, it just ― I think it poisons it a little bit. Or, not poisons, but it loses its integrity.
Even books like “Harry Potter,” I don’t feel like it’s trying to force it down our throats that like, fascism is bad, but you pick up those things by osmosis of what the characters feel. Those kinds of stories have a much more powerful effect on me personally.
What would you say you’re looking for most in acting roles going forward?
Bold characters. I always look up to people who are very unapologetic. Whether their morals are in line with mine ― say for example, the character in “Disco Pigs.” She has no moral compass, really. She’s 17, for one thing. But they’re always eating sausages, they don’t give a damn. I didn’t see that as a reason not to admire her, because obviously that’s her blind spot, but what I liked about her was that she was so sure of what she was doing, such a unique person, such an individual. That’s what it is in characters. I just want to find something individual, something about them that makes them an outsider, and that encourages me to be more that way. Because I think if I’m around other people I tend to want to fit in. I think characters in books and in movies that are complete individuals and who are not apologizing for it, they remind me to be myself. That’s why I like the character Luna Lovegood so much. I just want to have more of that energy.
From June 1 to 30, HuffPost is celebrating the 20th anniversary of the very first “Harry Potter” book by reminiscing about all things Hogwarts. Accio childhood memories.
After Frank Lloyd Wright died in 1959, an obituary described him as “the great radical of American architecture.”
During his lifetime, Wright condemned the “lust for ugliness” he saw in the sky-scraping landscapes and boxed suburban sprawls of the United States. “Mr. Wright scathingly condemned the topless towers of New York,” the obituary reads. “He had no use for the great steel and stone cities.” He didn’t care for American “box” houses, either, declaring them “more of a coffin for the human spirit than an inspiration.”
Instead, Wright preferred the low, integrated structures of a style dubbed “prairie architecture,” a term the famously arrogant artist would later reject. His organic, functional and mostly modest aesthetic would come to define the concrete office buildings and family homes he’s left scattered across the country. One-hundred and fifty years after Wright’s birth in Wisconsin, the Museum of Modern Art in New York City is paying tribute to this Midwestern brand of radical art by showcasing more than 400 of Wright’s designs. 
According to estimates, Wright produced over 1,171 architectural works during the course of his tumultuous career, of which 511 were built ― an astounding feat for an architect whose life was upended at various points by death, destruction, financial ruin and his own reckless behavior. Today, the man who began his career as a draftsman in Chicago, Illinois, is well associated with homes like Fallingwater and behemoth spaces like New York’s Guggenheim Museum. But MoMA’s scope is bigger, drawing attention to seven decades worth of his architectural drawings, models and building fragments, as well as his furniture, tableware, textiles, paintings, photos and scrapbooks, some never seen before. 
In honor of Wright’s 150th birthday, we’ve put together a digital tour of 20 of his greatest American works, filled with sketches and archival images of some of his most revered designs. If you can’t make it to MoMA’s exhibition, you can celebrate one of America’s greatest architects here.
”Frank Lloyd Wright at 150: Unpacking the Archive” is on view at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City from June 12 to October 1.
The new “Wonder Woman” movie, starring Gal Gadot and directed by Patty Jenkins, doesn’t just boast an iconic female superhero in all her glory: It’s also pretty easy on the eyes. (And not in the sense that certain critics might use it.)
According to the director of photography, Matt Jensen, the crisp but dimly illuminated palette of the film owes a lot to an unexpected source: American painter John Singer Sargent, who died in 1925. In an interview with Digital Spy, Jensen credited the artist with shaping the visual direction he and Jenkins took for the movie. 
“I think a key thing for us was we wanted rich blacks, beautiful portraiture on the faces, and when we did see color ― because he tended to not use a lot of color ― it was vibrant,” he told DS.
Sargent’s chosen palette of deep, distinct neutrals and vivid accents can be seen in the grays, blacks and olives that make up the world of “Wonder Woman,” offset by her red and gold costume. The above portrait shows the same delicate interplay between gleaming metallics, saturated blacks and muted backdrops as a still of Wonder Woman in action ― and the same elegant drapes of fabric and precise figure posing.
Sargent achieved much of his signature, nuanced aesthetic through an interplay between warm shafts of light and deep shadows. “His lighting style influenced the way that I lit the movie,” Jensen told DS. “I think Patty really responded to the beautiful soft light that he used in his paintings on his subjects.”
Like “Wonder Woman,” which is set amid World War I, Sargent depicted both portraits of elites in their element and grittier images of war and conflict. In his famous painting “Gassed,” he illustrated a gloomy yet sun-warmed scene of WWI soldiers injured by poison gas.
Looks like we have one more thing to thank “Wonder Woman” for ― reminding us all of the gorgeousness Sargent’s work has to offer:
Share this slide:
It should feel like too much to smash together a book about undiagnosable illnesses and New Age alternative remedies with a book about a New Age relationship experiment run by a narcissistic celebrity with a book about the dehumanizing gig economy with a book about growing up under Voluntaryist religious fundamentalism. The genius of Catherine Lacey lies in the fact that her new book, The Answers, doesn’t feel like too much; the pieces are bizarre and timely and fit together like puzzle pieces into a somehow timeless examination of humanity.
Lacey’s heroine has been backed into a corner. Raised by fundamentalist Christians in a rural home, she had no official documents or real contact with the outside culture until she left home as a teenager and moved in with an aunt, who renamed her from “Junia” to “Mary.” Now in New York, she’s drifted out of touch with her family. She has one dear friend, who has left on a mysterious quest of self-fulfillment. She has a job at a travel agency that barely keeps the lights on. And she has a mysterious, debilitating illness with no diagnosis. She sees doctors and specialists as her symptoms shift and worsen, but no one can put a finger on the root cause. Finally, she’s found a treatment that works ― PAKing, an alternative therapy that seems similar to reiki ― but that demands significant out-of-pocket expenditures.
So she decides, like so many young people crushed by debt and lack of opportunity today, to find a side hustle.
In another novel, that side hustle might have been driving for a ride-share or nannying the children of New York’s elite. In Lacey’s universe, nothing is so obvious. Mary responds to a mysterious help-wanted ad, then finds herself auditioning for a lavishly paid gig as, it turns out, the Emotional Girlfriend to movie star Kurt Sky. She’s both a guinea pig in an experiment to better understand the ideal relationship and an emotional laborer hired to keep the self-involved Kurt satisfied romantically. Scientists behind the scenes may be pulling the levers, but he’s providing the funding and reaping the immediate benefits of having carefully cast girlfriends to provide him with emotional support; for sex, for silent companionship, for arguing and for intellectual conversation.
This setup, dazzling and yet sinister as it may be, has little excitement for Mary. Being deprived of intimacy after her one relationship fell apart and her one friend disappeared on her seems to make her less particular about who she gives her time to ― besides, she needs the money. But she doesn’t much enjoy listening to Kurt’s emotional turmoil and responding in the directed fashion. He, on the other hand, finds himself fascinated by her quiet, submissive demeanor and her ability to listen with apparent interest for hours. (Naturally the Intellectual Girlfriend, with her frequently expressed opinions and education, soon wearies him.) He demands more and more of her time; soon, the experiment has transformed from a weird side gig to an all-consuming lifestyle that demands her to alienate herself from her own emotional needs to be what her boss asks. Still desperate to finish her PAK therapy, she clings to the unsettling but well-paying job.
As the novel progresses, we move in and out of Mary’s perspective to hear from Kurt, who muses on his failed past relationships and the movie he’s been trying to perfect in edits for 10 years; his obsessively devoted personal assistant, Matheson, who resents Kurt’s increasing dependence on Mary; and other women who participate in the project, particularly Ashley. A boxer with a burning grudge, she agrees to be Kurt’s Anger Girlfriend, only to find herself drawn back into a youthful trauma that threatens to blow up the whole experiment.
Lacey’s prose radiates elegance beneath its unassuming, unflashy surface; there’s nary a maladroit word or an unrevealing detail. She skillfully balances a truly absurd array of hot-button topics and weird narrative twists, playing them off each other virtuosically to weave a surreal-feeling story with deeply pragmatic concerns: How do we come to know ourselves? How do we become part of our community? What should we sacrifice to give a partner what they need? What should we demand from each other? Can a relationship be satisfying to us without dehumanizing our partner? How do we reconcile our personal fulfillment with the increasingly all-encompassing demands of simply staying alive in this economy? What are the limits of technology and science to provide us with happiness?
The Answers offers no answers, of course. Instead, in its stark portraits of bewildered, alienated people, it lays bare the unresolvable paradoxes of need that we all hold in our hearts.
The Bottom Line:
Lacey searches for the unanswerable human questions that drive us in her novel of lonely, lost New Yorkers grasping for connection in alienated modern society.
What other reviewers think:
NYT: “This is a novel of intellect and amplitude that deepens as it moves forward, until you feel prickling awe at how much mental territory unfolds.”
Kirkus: “With otherworldly precision and subtle wit, Lacey creates a gently surreal dreamscape that’s both intoxicating and profound.”
Who wrote it?
Catherine Lacey has written one previous novel, Nobody Is Ever Missing. She has won a Whiting Award and was selected as one of Granta’s Best Young American Writers.
Who will read it?
Fans of fiction that blends the surreal with realism, such as Murakami.
Opening lines:
“I’d run out of options. That’s how these things usually happen, how a person ends up placing all her last hopes on a stranger, hoping that whatever that stranger might do to her would be the thing she needed done to her.
For so long I had been a person who needed other people to do things to me, and for so long no one had done the right thing to me, but already I’m getting ahead of myself. That’s one of my problems, I’m told, getting ahead of myself, so I’ve been trying to find a way to get behind myself, to be slow and quiet with myself like Ed used to be. But of course I can’t quite make it work, can’t be exactly who Ed was to me.”
Notable passage:
“I looked at his face in the pale dawn, sleeping or just still, and I let myself completely feel the pain of missing a person who no longer exists. Not missing a person who has died, not mourning (I had yet to feel actual grief), but the strain of trying to see the person I’d fallen in love with inside the person he had become. Now I know this just comes with love, that there’s no way to avoid seeing a person gradually erased or warped by time, but the first time I realized this with Paul ― it felt apocryphal.”
The AnswersBy Catherine LaceyFarrar, Straus and Giroux, $26.00Published June 6, 2017
Buy on Amazon or your local indie bookstore
The Bottom Line is a weekly review combining plot description and analysis with fun tidbits about the book.
Share this slide:
President Donald Trump’s tweets might be polluting the natural environment that is your mind, but they’re finding greater purpose somewhere: specifically, in a subterranean lavender field in New York City.
Austrian artist Martin Roth, now based in NYC, is the mad gardener behind an idyllic new art exhibition, which happens to be powered in part by Trump’s 140-character declarations. Nestled inside the Austrian Cultural Forum of Midtown Manhattan, it consists of 200 lavender shrubs that are nurtured by grow lights whose power corresponds with the activities of several social media accounts.
That’s right, the strength of the bulbs depends on how frequently accounts like @POTUS, @realDonaldTrump, @PressSec and @KellyannePolls issue a tweet. (Other connected accounts: @foxandfriends, @seanhannity, @tuckercarlson, @breitbartnews, @heritage, @CNN and @washingtonpost.)
Motivated by the “heightened anxiety” many have felt in the wake of Trump’s election, the arrangement is meant to turn the chaos of our present political reality into something capable of assuaging our collective terror.
“The pace and tenor of the current political discourse, blasted out through social media 24/7 without respite, affects our psyche in a profound way,” Martin told Mashable. “I’m interested in Twitter because it seemed to be the only news getting through. It’s fast and used as a political weapon, but ... it seems overall just to be there to distract us.”
Using eight tons of soil, six rows of lavender and a soothing backdrop of nature-adorned wallpaper, Martin has created what appears at first to be place of refuge, a fragrance-filled spot where art lovers can stop to, quite literally, smell the flowers.
However, they can’t do so without wondering just how many tweets are flying through the digital ether at any given moment. If the lavender is thriving, so too are POTUS and co.’s statuses. The effect, Hyperallergic’s Claire Voon notes, is amplified by “the windowless, concrete space,” which she describes as “claustrophobic.” Even when the air smells like perfume, something capable of transcending the underground sanctuary is probably amiss ― you just can’t see it.
“The total effect is less an immersion into the woods, and more a sojourn in a doomsday bunker of the One-Percent,” Kate Sutton wrote in an essay that appears on the Forum’s website. “Any calm this environment induces is innately tinged by suspicion of its circumstances.”
You can visit the not-so-subtle installation until June 21.
With the seemingly relentless barrage of leaks and scandals during President Donald Trump’s relatively short time in office, it might seem a wonder to some how he hasn’t been impeached already.
While it’s a sentiment you might hear thrown around water-cooler conversations or happy hours, the actual process of impeachment is, in so few words, more complicated than you might think. As HuffPost’s Jonathan Cohn explains, impeachment isn’t about punishing an individual for a crime, but rather, is a means of protecting any threats to democracy.
Still, if you want to probe further and brush up on your U.S. governmental knowledge, podcasts have proven to be an excellent resource for covering the basics of relevant political issues and beyond. When the news feels overwhelming or difficult to parse through, political podcasts can serve as a guidepost through the swamp that we keep hearing will be drained one day.
Acast compiled a list of 10 shows that help to explain politics for the layperson, the news junkie, and the individual just trying to get the lowdown on what’s actually happening in Congress.
Share this slide:
The Well-Read Black Girl has come a long way in just a couple of years.
Founded by creative strategist Glory Edim, the digital book club started as a way for her to talk about books with her friends. She took the name from a custom T-shirt her boyfriend gave her ― a nod to her bookishness ― and began posting book recommendations on Instagram. Now it’s an online community of more than 20,000, and Edim has begun regularly hosting in-person meetings as well.
Next up: A conference and festival held in Brooklyn, New York, which will be all about celebrating black women authors and creating a space for black women to share their literary passions and experiences. 
The timing and location of the festival is telling ― just one week before the annual Brooklyn Book Festival. On a practical level, the choice will likely make things easier for authors to appear at both; the Well-Read Black Girl has already arranged meeting discussions with major writers such as Angela Flournoy and Margo Jefferson, and asks potential festival attendees to “Imagine the world’s best book club featuring an array of outstanding authors and writers, including Tayari Jones, Naomi Jackson, LaShonda Barnett, Tiphanie Yanique, Tia Williams, Jenna Wortham, Doreen St. Félix, and more.”
More important, the book world still frequently fails to make its spaces welcoming and inclusive of people of color, especially black women, or relegates them to token events addressing diversity or race in literature. Preceding the established festival with an event for black women provides a counterbalance to the whiteness of most shared literary spaces, an opportunity for black girls and women to celebrate their nerdy sides in a sisterly atmosphere.
In addition to author panels, talks and networking events, the festival promises special treats like a VIP kickoff party featuring a screening of author and filmmaker Kathleen Collins’ seminal, and rarely shown, 1982 film “Losing Ground.”
The festival addresses a long-neglected group of book readers, so it should be no surprise that Well-Read Black Girls has seen a surge of demand. Edim launched a Kickstarter on June 3 to support the event, and as of Tuesday morning had been funded to $17,000, exceeding its $15,000 goal.
HuffPost reached out to Edim about the project via email and will update the article accordingly. In the meantime, check out our past interview with Edim, for which she suggests 10 new books by women of color you should add to your 2017 TBR list.
Share this slide:
This week, director Patty Jenkins made history. She became the first woman director to head up a summer blockbuster ― a big-budget sector of the film industry typically reserved for action movies directed by men.
That Hollywood has been notoriously unkind to women directors makes the feat more remarkable still. Jenkins ― whose biggest flick prior to “Wonder Woman” was made with less than a tenth of the budget ― is only the fourth woman director to head up a project in the $100 million plus range.
What’s more: critics say the film’s a hit.
In an interview with Hollywood Reporter, Jenkins was modest about her early success. “I can’t take on the history of 50 percent of the population just because I’m a woman,” she said. And we agree. There’s no dearth of talented women directors who haven’t been given a chance on big-budget projects; hopefully, Jenkins’ efforts will open doors for them, too.
We’ve got a few in mind. Between Marvel’s “She-Hulk” and DC Comics’ brainy Natasha Irons, there are dozens of superheroine stories waiting to be adapted into summertime hits. Below, we’ve paired our favorite women directors with the winningest heroes we love.
In recent Marvel installments of her story, “She-Hulk” has become much more than an object of desire. Mariko Tamaki — author of “This One Summer” — gives Jennifer Walters her own story, in which she’s coping with PTSD. And Karyn Kusama — director of “Girlfight” and “Jennifer’s Body” — has proven that she’s able to take on action-centered stories with dark psychological underpinnings.
Elisabeth Olsen is currently playing the Scarlet Witch, aka Wanda Maximoff, in the “Avengers” movies, beginning with “Age of Ultron.” Maximoff is (maybe) the daughter of Magneto, the twin sister of Quicksilver, and her husband is Vision, so a film centered specifically on Scarlet Witch ― whose powers include being able to alter reality in various ways ― would be a true comic book family drama. We’d like to see Reed Morano, the director of the first three episodes of Hulu’s “The Handmaid’s Tale” as well as films like “Skeleton Twins,” give the adaptation a bleak, intimate edge.
Raven is a half-human, half-demon superhero who was rejected by the Justice League due to her dangerous ancestry. She winds up forming her own group of rowdy do-gooder teens ― a story that seems suited to Amber Tamblyn’s penchant for dark and feeling character studies.
Faith, with her psychokinetic and telepathic powers, has earned praise as a body-positive superheroine who, according to writer Amy Diegelman, is “fat [...] and not hiding.” In her solo comic, Faith (aka Zephyr) has a boring job at a BuzzFeed-like media company, is dealing with a breakup and is living in a new city ― the perfectly relatable millennial scenario. Amma Asante, who directed 2016’s “A United Kingdom,” could bring out the best of this story.
Geeks everywhere already know that DuVernay is behind the promising new adaptation of “A Wrinkle in Time,” so she’s already established herself as a woman director who’s interested in fantastical stories. DuVernay could work her magic on any of the Marvel of DC characters, really, but a cinematic retelling of Natasha Irons’ story would be worthy of her talents. Irons — like Tony Stark and her uncle, Steel — begins her world-saving career as an engineer donning Steel’s powerful suit. 
Maybe you don’t want a “Poison Ivy” remake, but we do. And who better to make it happen than Dee Rees? She’s known for directing the HBO film “Bessie,” the docuseries “When We Rise” and an episode of “Empire,” but is tied to the “Philip K. Dick’s Electric Dreams” Amazon project, giving her some sci-fi experience. In the comic books, Poison Ivy ― or Pamela Lillian Isley ― is a botanist-turned-eco-terrorist (and sometimes Batman love interest), which seems like a complex villain plot built for our post-Paris Accord era.  
Barring her uncreative name, Thor Girl (née Tarene) is a full-fledged superhero deserving of her own flick. After fighting supervillain Loki alongside Thor, she sought refuge on earth under the alias Tara Olson. Mimi Leder, the director of “Deep Impact” and executive producer on “The Leftovers,” would be a suitable match for Tarene.
“Buffy” would make for another contentious remake, but one that, under the helm of “American Honey” director Andrea Arnold, could be incredible. We’d love to see a film adaptation focus more on the mundane struggles of a high schooler living in suburban California ― which also happens to a “Hellmouth,” opening up Buffy’s home to a demonic gateway. 
Echo, aka Ronin, made her first appearance in “Daredevil” Vol. 2, Issue #9, as a Native American woman with gifted intellect and “photographic reflexes,” who also happens to be one of the first deaf comic book characters. Her biography could move in so many directions ― she’s been in love with Daredevil, friends with Wolverine and Dr. Strange, allied with the New Avengers. Heather Rae, who’s mostly directed documentaries (like the Sundance and Tribeca darling “Trudell,” which tells the story of historic Native American poet and activist John Trudell), has experience working on narrative films as a producer. We’d love to see what someone with her resume could do with a superhero flick.
CORRECTION: A previous version of this article included an image of “Thor Goddess of Thunder” (Jane Foster), instead of “Thor Girl” (Tarene Olson). It also incorrectly described the plot of “Belle,” Amma Asante’s film. 