
Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: This late in its run, Game of Thrones is mostly about tyrants, and I’m glad it’s aware of that. There are plentiful types of tyranny for the Westerosi to choose from, of course. There’s the conniving elitism of Cersei Lannister, still convinced of her house’s utmost superiority and willing to rule over whatever kingdom she can get, even if she has to blow everyone up in the process. There’s the “liberation” offered by Daenerys, who claims to offer freedom from oppressive rulers, but really is presenting a more binary choice: Join her, or die. Finally, to the north, there’s the impassive force of the Night King, who offers only the apocalypse, something more than a few bedraggled citizens of Westeros might welcome at this point.
It would be too easy for this show to pitch Daenerys’s efforts at conquest as a battle between good and evil. That’s never been a narrative pursuit in George R. R. Martin’s books, and it was entirely absent from the fiery ass-kicking her Dothraki/dragon combo delivered to Jaime’s forces last episode. There are people to root for, and people to fear, on both sides, and the viewer’s sympathies lie more with Tyrion, aghast at the visceral carnage. “Eastwatch” picked up right in the aftermath of Daenerys’s assault on the Lannister loot train, as the mother of dragons stuck firmly to her brand and offered the beleaguered troops a supposed “choice”: Bend the knee, or get roasted alive. They all bent the knee, of course, except for the flinty Randyll Tarly and his son, Dickon (or was it Abercrombie?), who stood against her foreign hordes and were quickly barbecued alive.
There was nothing triumphant about the scene. Randyll has never been a particularly sympathetic character, and Tyrion wisely pointed out his betrayal of the Tyrell memory in defecting to Cersei, but there was still a noble ring to his comeback: “There are no easy choices anymore,” he sighed. Too true, but to Daenerys, the choice she offers is the easiest of all—why would anyone pick death over the freedom she offers? Especially as it’s spoken in vaguely populist terms like “I’m not here to murder” and something about stopping “the wheel that has rolled over rich and poor.”
It’s a problem that has plagued Daenerys since her days liberating Slaver’s Bay: the concept that her noble ideals, backed up with displays of strength (i.e., dragonfire and conquest), will be enough to win hearts and minds. Instead, as Tyrion and Varys know, all you end up with are endless displays of strength, which can quickly make you a Mad King (or Queen). As Game of Thrones winds to a close, they (and others) are looking to break the endless chain of tyranny, and by gum, they may just have found the way to do it, and it involves a boat filled with stinky, fermented crab.
Okay, it’s more complicated than that, but I dare you to argue with the notion that Davos was the MVP of this episode, and perhaps the show as a whole, smuggling Tyrion into King’s Landing to advance some secret diplomacy, humanely rescuing Gendry in the process, and doing a whole five-minute stand-up set about how crab is an aphrodisiac in the middle there. Crustacean jokes aside, Davos’s involvement in Daenerys’s new scheme (to present a White Walker, or one of its wights, to Cersei as an example of the looming threat in the north) felt particularly crucial to the bigger thematic stuff I’m wrestling with here, in the show’s endgame.
Davos is a loyal soldier, and his loyalty only ended up costing him his son’s life (as he reminded Tyrion), the men around him, and eventually, his liege lord Stannis Baratheon. His loyalty to Daenerys is different and more complicated, the same kind of loyalty Tyrion, and Varys, and even doe-eyed Jorah have for her: They see the chance for something different in her, even if she often behaves just as badly as the rulers they served in the past. It’s something Jon recognizes, too (and, in turn, something Daenerys recognizes in him), and that’s why this mission to retrieve a White Walker makes a mad sort of sense, as hair-raisingly dangerous as it might be. That Daenerys would consider such a scheme, rather than going around burning more castles and scoring more easy victories, is the glimmer of real hope that everyone recognizes beyond the tyranny.
Cersei has no such glimmer, now planning to publicly proclaim her love for Jaime (and give birth to their fourth child together). The Night King still advances silently, promising only destruction. “Eastwatch” was mostly another set-up episode, getting the pieces in place for Jon’s raid beyond the wall with a colorful cast of bandits (including Tormund, the Hound, Beric, and a hammer-wielding Gendry) next week. It had plenty of little tidbits to dig into, most frustrating of them all being Littlefinger’s continued machinations in Winterfell and Sam’s complete inability to listen to Gilly dropping major plot points about the legitimacy of Jon’s birth. But it was encouraging, even exciting, in how it drew on years of characterization, on seasons of world-building, to create momentum and context for its next major battle. Lenika, are you as stirred to the cause as I am? Or is Daenerys’s willingness to par-boil her enemies too fatal a flaw?
Lenika Cruz: I usually find Dany a more reasonable would-be conquerer than many show-watchers do—her repeated citations of her claim to the throne don’t strike me as unhinged, mainly because the show is careful to balance her fire-and-bloodthirsty side with more coolheaded decisions. But the start of this episode was disturbing and gave me the strongest Mad Queen vibes I’ve felt from Daenerys this season. Post-Dracarys justifications to Jon aside, her executions of Randyll and Dickon Tarly were chilling (not literally, obviously)—less because of the fact that they were killed, and more because of the manner in which it happened. Tyrion’s clear desperation, and Dany’s stoic dismissal of his pleas, combined with the sight of Drogon as her very own, castle-sized Queen's Justice roaring at bloodied prisoners of war, all but invalidated her “let's make the world a better place together” pitch. Papa Aerys would have been proud. (It helped that this was the most frightening Drogon has ever been from an effects-standpoint: That screech! Those scales! Those teeth! That lumbering, I’m-gonna-eat-you gait!)
The father-son conflagration accomplished a few other things this episode: It made Jon’s fearless approach of Drogon seem mystically fated, an impression only deepened by Gilly’s hint that Lord Snow might, after all, be the true-born son of a Targaryen. It got Varys to stress-drink and meditate on his complicity in the acts of violence his masters have carried out. And it all but brought House Tarly to an end (as a brother of the Night's Watch, Sam is forbidden from inheriting or passing on anything). “You are the future of your house,” Tyrion told Dickon when he stepped forward to die next to his father. “This war has already wiped one great house from the world. Don’t let it happen again.” Not only was Dickon not moved, but Tyrion was also wrong on his second point. The return of Gendry in “Eastwatch,” after three and a half seasons of “still rowing” jokes, wasn’t a shock, but it’s telling that his reappearance came in an episode even more preoccupied with the subject of lineage and family survival than usual.
In addition to the sly reference to Rhaegar Targaryen's annulment of his marriage to Elia Martell—which, I think, positions Jon before Dany in the line of succession, which we all know matters a great deal in Westeros these days—Game of Thrones brought back the last known heir to House Baratheon. (I had been irked that the show hadn’t changed the stag sigil on King's Landing in the show intro to a Lannister lion at the start of Season 7. I'm still convinced it's just an oversight, but perhaps there's a sneakier reason for keeping the Baratheon sigil in place now that Gendry's back.) Either way, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss are giving us a bunch of last-hope, only children carrying on some noble cause after being dismissed by their family—Samwell Tarly (disowned his dad), Jorah Mormont (same), Gendry (same), Daenerys (exploited by her garbage brother Viserys), Jon Snow (who, by virtue of his bastard-dom, could never be a real Stark; he was also murdered by his Night’s Watch brothers).
Game of Thrones enjoys poking at the arbitrary conventions involved in maintaining the institution of family; it also suggests the strength of blood depends entirely on how seriously the members of a given clan take that bond. The Lannisters take family most seriously of all the houses left on the show. From the earliest hours of Season 1, Jaime and Cersei were dripping with scorn for “anyone who isn't us,” a refrain that endures today. I said a few weeks ago that I was concerned that Cersei would be a deflated, less interesting version of herself with her children gone. Now, it turns out that she is pregnant with another child by her brother, and the Lannister name and self-obsession may live on after all. (Though, I wouldn’t put it past Cersei to lie about something like this to Jaime, setting up her chat with Qyburn for maximum believability.) Meanwhile, Daenerys made it a point yet again of calling her dragons her “children” in this episode, a reminder that even she sees herself as part of an indivisible, unquestionable unit.
Look up north for a contrast. We noted last week how peculiar and cold the Stark family reunion was. I’m not saying the Starks don’t care about each other, but the individual identities of the members of their family have been destabilized to the point where mere relation doesn’t seem to be enough to ensure feelings of loyalty. Bran and Arya and Sansa have all become different people: the Three-Eyed Raven, No One, and Lady Stark (f.k.a Lady Bolton, f.k.a. wife of Tyrion Lannister). We saw this week the rapid erosion of whatever trust may have existed between Sansa and Arya after so many years apart. Sansa craves power, something she can only really possess with Jon out of the way. Arya, still devoted to Jon, suspects Sansa’s good intentions aren’t enough to keep her from wanting to rule Winterfell, a belief likely fueled by Arya’s latent resentment for her older sister. And ready to exploit this all is Littlefinger, who proved that for all of Arya’s expert shadow-lurking, he's still the lurkiest shadow-lurker around. (In case you didn't get to pause that shot of the scroll Arya found, it looks like the letter Sansa wrote to Robb asking him to swear fealty to Joffrey.)
In all, this was a solid hour—it was plenty entertaining (as you noted, David, in large part thanks to the ever-fantastic Onion Knight) and the plot sped forward yet again, despite the absence of a couple of storylines (the Greyjoys, the Unsullied). We got some impressive Drogon shots. We got good ole Gendry back. Jorah finally got his hug from Daenerys. Tyrion and Jaime had a reunion. But my credulity continues to be strained in ways I’m trying not to overthink. Like: Is Drogon hurt at all? How did Jaime and Bronn get away from the loot train attack so easily? How did Jaime and Tyrion meet so easily in King’s Landing, with Tyrion not even bothering to toss so much as a scarf on his head for a disguise? Why doesn’t the plan to drag a lone wight before Cersei come under a little more scrutiny? Why does it immediately seem like a good enough idea for an entire band of fighters to volunteer to wander straight into the path of the Army of the Dead in hopes of snagging one ice zombie? How does one even transport an ice zombie?
I’m still very, very excited for the Big Battle That Was Promised next week. It will likely be spectacular and pivotal and the most big-picture-y fight yet, since the fate of the entire continent, not just one army or house, depends on it. For all this episode's fixation on protecting and ending bloodlines, and on family name-checking (even Gendry and Jon trust each other almost instantly because of who their fathers were), more important was how “Eastwatch” coaxed the characters to think less tribally, for once. Even Cersei seemed willing to consider a collaboration with Dany, however manipulative her motives. Jon crucially allowed Beric Dondarrion, Thoros of Myr, and the Hound out from their cells, declaring that the only side they should care about belonging to is that of the “breathing.”
That the entire breathing population of Westeros could ever truly come to see themselves as a single family of sorts is still a remote possibility to me. But I’m intrigued that Game of Thrones is sincerely trying to explore that route in the first place. Megan, do you think Daenerys was wise to sanction this seemingly doomed mission north of the Wall? Personally, I’m comforted knowing that the crew involves two guys who were raised from the dead, plus a guy with resurrection abilities. But given the very sweet hi-and-bye that Jorah received this episode, I wouldn’t be shocked if the knight followed in his father’s footsteps next week…
Megan Garber: Sigh, I agree about Jorah—but ironically, if he meets his end in the next episode, a death not by stone but by ice, it would be one of the least existentially tragic deaths the show has portrayed so far. In “Eastwatch,” Jorah got what he’s been wanting for so long: reconciliation with Dany. That element of his story—which is in a lot of ways the element of his story—was giving a happy ending. Which is a rare thing: So few of the people in this world end their stories having gotten what they want. So few die fulfilled. That’s one of the things that makes watching Game of Thrones—in addition to the, uh, torture and gore and general bleakness of life in Westeros and beyond—so reliably depressing: There is a pervasive sadness to the proceedings here. On top of everything else, this is a land of dreams unmet and promises unfulfilled.
But! (Slightly) more optimistically! As to your Dany question, Lenika, I’m on board (heh) with the mission. And not just because of the people who are engaging in it, but also simply because it is happening in the first place. One of the things Game of Thrones has been so heavy-handedly hinting at this season—beyond the idea that Jaime might betray Cersei, and that Jon Snow’s true parentage would be revealed and in due course would Change Everything™—is that, in a show about dragon-fire and ice zombies and all the rest, the most destructive thing of all, in the end, might be classic human obstinance. Would humans being human be the death of humanity? Would people’s stubbornness and obstinance and selfishness prevent them, in the end, from resisting the encroachments of the Night King?
One of the things I’ve appreciated about the show, pervasive existential sadness notwithstanding, is how methodically—but also how artfully—it has infused those questions into its storyline. From the start, it has been interested in information that is true and information that is manipulated—in belief that is justified and belief that is not. And Jon Snow has been a nexus of a lot of that. When it comes to the details of the White Walkers, maybe people simply wouldn’t believe Jon (because believing him, to be fair to those people, first requires believing in dormant ice-zombies who are under the leadership of a sentient and strategic ice-king and coming to Kill Them All). Maybe they would take too long to realize the threat.
People have compared the White Walkers to climate change, and I think, in general, that’s a really fair comparison to make: They’re a slow-moving threat. Battling them requires first that people expand their views of the world and their places in it. The White Walkers could well win simply because they have at their disposal weaponized human ignorance. And the epic and climactic battle between the forces of winter and the forces of life could well end up being, the show has hinted, less of a classic battle and more of an easy conquest. The White Walkers could win by default.
If you buy that reading of things, you could also read a lot of Season 7 so far as an exploration of the small, human impediments to solving the climate crisis at scale: This has been a season that has been in large part a really detailed portrayal of the dynamics of belief and disbelief. Jon Snow has been trying so hard to convince people that 1) winter is coming, like rightnowaswespeak, and 2) winter in this case involves an army of nearly indestructible ice-corpses—some of whom may well include zombie versions of your own relatives—coming to kill everyone and everything they know. Jon Snow has been Al Gore, basically: heard by some, mocked by others. There are lots of White Walker deniers in Westeros.
I didn’t like “Eastwatch” as much as you guys did—I found it a little clunky, from the winky aftermath-of-Jaime’s-deus-ex-machina at the beginning on down—but I did really appreciate how the episode emphasized belief itself as a weapon in the war against the Night King and his forces. Archmaester Marwyn, debating Sam about whether the Citadel should believe Jon’s stories. The plan to kill a wight and bring it back to the south as proof of the Night King’s capabilities: a Westerosi version of Al Gore’s slide decks. So I’m all about that mission, and in general all about that little-rowboat-that-could and its ragtag occupants. After all—to paraphrase another epic that explores the consequences of belief and its discontents—they could be humanity’s only hope.
When Atypical was announced last October, the Netflix show’s mission was defined as a question: What does it mean to be normal? Sam (Keir Gilchrist), Atypical’s primary character, is a high-school senior who also has autism, and most of the storylines in the first eight episodes (released on Friday) revolve around “normal” teenage experiences—his efforts to get a girlfriend, his interactions with the jerky popular kids, and his desire underneath it all to fit in, and to feel less alone. And yet the show’s most consistent source of humor comes from how abnormal Sam is. How he inadvertently screams obscenities at bewildered strangers, and blurts out pickup lines he’s downloaded from the internet, and accidentally punches a girl mid-hookup because he can’t stand the way she’s touching him.
Atypical, created by Robia Rashid (The Goldbergs, How I Met Your Mother) and Seth Gordon (also The Goldbergs, as well as the recent Baywatch movie), carries a heavy burden, just because there are so few depictions of people on the spectrum in television, let alone half-hour comedies that place autism front and center. The show is obviously filled with compassion for Sam and tries hard to give the audience some sense of what his everyday experiences are like—demonstrating how clothes with too many zippers and textures overwhelm his senses by distorting sounds and visuals for viewers. But it also relies on him as a punchline, only to turn around and assail other characters who do the exact same thing.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development
Which is a shame, because in its finest moments Atypical is warmhearted, sincere, funny, and shrewd. It’s hard to tell whether its inconsistency is due to a blurry conception of what tone it should strike, or whether producers simply wanted to appeal to as broad a swathe of potential viewers as possible—the show skews so wildly from slapstick to gritty drama to teen soap to family sitcom that it should come with Dramamine. There’s Sam, played sensitively by Gilchrist (United States of Tara), with his obsession with penguins and all things Antarctic, and his teenage hormones. His sister, Casey (the fantastic Brigette Lundy-Paine), is both irreverent and extremely protective when it comes to her brother. “My sister doesn’t let anyone beat me up,” Sam explains in the first episode. “Except herself.”
The most bewildering aspect of the show is Sam’s mom, Elsa (Jennifer Jason Leigh), whose storyline seems to belong to a totally different drama. Leigh is an immensely talented actress but she seems totally miscast and underserved by the fact that Elsa is very thinly drawn (it doesn’t emerge until more than halfway through the series that she has a job as a hairdresser). Perhaps this is deliberate—to emphasize how often caregivers end up primarily defined by that role—but it doesn’t explain a baffling plotline that threads through all eight episodes and feels better suited to a kitchen-sink tragedy than the whimsical-but-earnest show Atypical strives to be. Similarly out of place is Zahid (Nik Dodani), Sam’s best friend, a dweeby and foul-mouthed lothario right out of a Judd Apatow comedy. And Sam’s therapist, Julia (Amy Okuda) starts the show as an audience surrogate for him to talk directly to, but around the seventh episode weirdly becomes a primary character.
As Sam’s dad, Doug, Michael Rapaport is sweetly and believably awkward—sidelined by his wife’s dedication to Sam but newly able to bond with his son over girl talk and trips to the aquarium. It’s at moments like these that the show finds its footing, communicating both how difficult and how special it is to be Sam, and to be in his family. Casey, a talented athlete, is consistently sidelined by her parents because Sam’s needs are more of a priority. And yet her relationship with him is charming—she accepts who he is, she doesn’t treat him with kid gloves, but she takes fierce care not to let anyone else manipulate or stereotype him.
It’s a dynamic the show could have benefited by emulating. A handful of writers with first- or second-hand experience of autism have noted that the show veers between pandering to Sam and treating him as comic relief. Rashid told The Hollywood Reporter she was inspired to write Atypical by her own personal experiences with a person on the spectrum, and that she hired a consultant and relied on feedback from others familiar with the disorder. And many of its scenes offer thoughtful insight into how Sam functions, portraying how his family “cases” restaurants before they visit them to make sure they’re Sam-friendly and replicating how uncomfortable his experiences can be. But its tonal issues often mean Sam has to be the funny one, whether intentionally or not.
Ultimately, Atypical wants people to be more sensitive to what people like Sam go through, and in that sense it succeeds. Gilchrist, who isn’t on the spectrum, is persuasive and thoughtful enough to avoid making Sam feel like a stereotype, even in more mawkish or predictable moments. And the show has some funny lines—Doug, visiting a fancy prep school, marvels how cashews “are a rich man’s nut.” But it’s hard not to long for a treatment of autism that’s as well-rounded and gutsy as ABC’s Speechless, whose creator, Scott Silveri, based it on his own experience with his brother’s disability and has spoken about the difficulty in finding the line between comedy and accuracy. Atypical’s first season proves how being entertaining and groundbreaking is a really tough balance to strike.
Underestimate Donald Glover at Your Own Peril
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“What distinguishes the 33-year-old—arguably the most prolific creator of his generation, racking up accolades as a writer, producer, director, rapper, stand-up and, now, movie star—is not only his unique voice and versatility, but also his desire, through his work, to get under people's skin and make them think, even if they aren't always comfortable doing so.”
The Toxic Drama on YA Twitter
Kat Rosenfield | Vulture
“Led by a group of influential authors who pull no punches when it comes to calling out their colleagues’ work, and amplified by tens of thousands of teen and young-adult followers for whom online activism is second nature, the campaigns to keep offensive books off shelves are a regular feature in a community that’s as passionate about social justice as it is about reading.”
‘I’ve Not Retired!’ Earl Cameron, Britain’s First Black Film Star, on Bond, Racism—and Turning 100
Xan Brooks | The Guardian
“If Cameron never quite achieved leading-man status, that was hardly his fault—there were other factors at play. One might describe him as the best black British actor of his generation, which is another way of saying that he stood alone at the top, waiting for others to climb up and join him.”
Sam Shepard and Confederate: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Stargazing
Darrin McMahon | Literary Review
“In delineating these distinctions in the minds of contemporaries and developing celebrity as a category of analysis, [Antoine] Lilti shows how celebrity was fundamentally democratic, in that anyone could attain it, and also keenly adapted to modern individualism, in that it encouraged empathy with individual people, not social types. Yet all along, he emphasizes its fundamentally double-edged nature—for celebrities and their publics alike.”
The Story of the Duck Tales Theme, History’s Catchiest Single Minute of Music
Darryn King | Vanity Fair
“Psychological studies tell us that the more often we hear a song, the more likely we are to enjoy it. Nostalgia plays a part too. For many, the DuckTales theme is inextricably tied up with happy, potent memories of childhood, of after-school television-watching and put-off homework. But the DuckTales theme also happens to be a superb piece of music. It’s not only a high point of an underrated musical form, but an exquisite miniature pop classic in its own right.”
Queen of the Wood Nymphs
Amy LaRocca | The Cut
“Rodarte’s fashion shows have been unusual in form ... and the Mulleavys’ filmmaking style is purposefully disorienting. They use mirror reflections and other, subtle displacements to keep its lush, extreme beauty from becoming some sort of bucolic, soothing travelogue. It was going to take a specific kind of actress to thrive in that setting, and Theresa was always only ever going to be played by Kirsten Dunst, who knows a thing or two about disorientation.”
Did 1997 Contain the Worst Two Weeks in Music History?
Sean O’Neal and Clayton Purdom | The A.V. Club
“They contain so many signifiers of the myriad terrible directions music was taking at the time, alongside omens of the worst still yet to come. Even if OK Computer or Life After Death had arrived during those two weeks, I’m not sure it could overcome the portentous weight of all these oracles of a world about to be dominated by some of the stupidest music ever made.”
What Would Diplo Do? and the Millennial Aesthetic of Viceland
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“If one were to engage in the treacherous and perhaps worthless work of trying to discern the millennial condition … from Viceland’s lineup, one might observe a fascination with fringe communities, or a belief that journalism should be dangerous if not borderline illicit, or a particular kind of humor that involves the unapologetic intermingling of high and low culture. It also suggests an intolerance for self-importance, particularly when practiced by people in positions of influence or advantage.”
Don’t Miss
The Urgent Message of M.I.A.’s Kala at 10—Spencer Kornhaber reminisces on how the sound and message of the rapper’s brilliant second album attacked the concept of borders between peoples.
Business of Creativity
Writing in Someone Else’s World—Jason Heller tells the story of how he stumbled on a high-pay, low-prestige way to enter the publishing world.
The Art—and Business—of Making Music Videos—Catherine Green interviews Dave Meyers, who has directed some of the most iconic videos of the Y2K era.
Film
Icarus: A Doping House of Cards Tumbles Down—Sophie Gilbert watches a new Netflix documentary, in which a filmmaker accidentally captures how one of the biggest scandals in sporting history came to light.
The Grimy, Chaotic Thrills of Good Time—David Sims enjoys Robert Pattinson’s electrifying performance in the Safdie brothers’ tale of a dark journey into New York’s criminal underbelly.
When the Planet Is Reality Television—Megan Garber posits that An Inconvenient Sequel is technically a documentary, but only technically.
The Moody, Mixed Messages of Wind River—Christopher Orr reviews Taylor Sheridan’s uneven, but potent, vengeance film rooted in the death of a young Native American woman.
TV
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes—Lenika Cruz, Megan Garber, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss “The Spoils of War,” the fourth episode of the show’s seventh season.
Game of Thrones: Dragons Are the Nuclear Option—Sophie Gilbert notes the creatures are the most powerful weapon in Westeros, but that this week’s episode showed the horrific cost of using them.
The Joke Has Died With Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later: David Sims thinks the latest Netflix spin-off of the 2001 cult-comedy classic brings back the old gang but has nothing new to do with them.
Settling vs. Settling Down: 2 Ways of Looking at the Bachelorette Finale—Megan Garber writes about how some fans saw Rachel Lindsay’s final choice as a compromise of her desires, but it can also be viewed as getting her exactly what she wanted.
Music
The Very Human Return of Kesha—Spencer Kornhaber listens to Rainbow, an album that blends fantasy fun and bummer reality following the pop star’s public legal and personal struggle.
Sports
The Dodgers Aim for History—and a Championship—Robert O’Connell says having the best regular season in baseball rarely leads to a World Series win, but the Los Angeles team is hoping to defy the odds.
No Country for Colin Kaepernick—Vann R. Newkirk II believes it’s possible that the activist-athlete will never take another snap in the NFL.
Books
Storytellers Grapple With the Porn Identity—Sophie Gilbert analyzes new works from Jon Ronson and Tom Perrotta that examine the cultural impact of a digital sexual revolution.
A year ago, Colin Kaepernick—as an injured San Francisco 49ers backup quarterback during an exhibition game—began his practice of sitting during the pregame rendition of the national anthem. “I am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color,” he said of his protest. Through the season, even as he regained the starting gig for 11 games, Kaepernick continued his demonstration.
Of course, his protest wasn’t exactly well-received. Kaepernick faced near-universal revulsion from NFL team offices, and fared little better among the sports commentariat. President Obama and Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg have opined about his protest. President Trump—echoing a large percentage of Americans—has boasted about his role in keeping Kaepernick out of a job. After the quarterback chose to enter free agency in March, the same front offices that criticized him refused to offer him roster spots, even over marginal talents.
Less than a month away from the start of the regular season, Kaepernick is still out in the cold. Last weekend, the Miami Dolphins chose to sign the quarterback Jay Cutler over Kaepernick—and Cutler is coming out of retirement and is reportedly very much out of shape. Though the Baltimore Ravens’s coach and general manager both reported interest in Kaepernick and endorsed his skills, the business side of the operation has refused to offer him a contract, even as the team signed David Olson, a guy who last played for something called the Champions Indoor Football league. But despite the increasing likelihood that he will lose his spot in the NFL, Kaepernick has persisted in his activism. It seems, even, that this is the outcome for which he was prepared all along.
Did Colin Kaepernick's Protest Fail?
Just a month before Kaepernick’s protest began, Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old black man, was shot and killed by police in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, while selling CDs outside of a convenience store. Just a day after that, Philando Castile was shot and killed by Saint Anthony, Minnesota, police officer Jeronimo Yanez during a traffic stop, and protests in both Louisiana and the Twin Cities punctuated the prelude to football season. A month after Kaepernick began his protest, Terence Crutcher was shot and killed by Officer Betty Shelby in Tulsa, Oklahoma; and Keith Lamont Scott was shot and killed by officers in Charlotte, North Carolina, who admitted that video showed no “absolute definitive, visual evidence” that he’d provoked them.
Kaepernick saw his own protest as an extension of the Black Lives Matter movement and of the raucous protests that erupted in each of those cities. “It will be very telling about what happens to the officer that killed him,” he told reporters about Crutcher last September. “They shot and killed a man and walked around like it wasn’t a human being.” Yet Kaepernick’s protest was muted compared to those outcries. He chose to sit—an action that he soon modified into a kneel in order to avoid disrespecting veterans—and never made public mention of his protest unless asked about it.
After years of media and political backlash against the tactics of Black Lives Matter, from efforts to criminalize marches to proposed legislation that might allow drivers to kill protesters with impunity to wild claims that the movement’s strategies actually kill people, Kaepernick simply chose not to stand. The protest spread to others in the NFL, and to other sports, perhaps because of its resemblance to another famous sports demonstration. Although the “Kaepernick kneel” was much more understated and less directly connected to an ideology than the choice by sprinters Tommie Smith and John Carlos to raise their black-gloved fists to the sky during the 1968 Olympics, it carried the same kind of defiance.
As he’s sought a new job this offseason, his detractors have proffered a shifting set of explanations for his inability to land a roster spot. But in a league where much more marginal talents or much more damaging reputations than his are flourishing, with due consideration to the capricious and often arbitrary nature of employment in the National Football League, it seems clear enough that Kaepernick’s defiance is really the thing.
Maybe an informal ban from the NFL was the ultimate end for his protest. What the last year of his activism has illustrated more than anything is that the NFL will not—and perhaps cannot—tolerate politics that challenge the status quo or run the risk of upsetting white fans. If he doesn’t receive a training camp invite this month, Kaepernick’s biggest impact could be in holding a mirror to the NFL, and through his own treatment highlighting exactly where the league fails.
Exile would also amplify the athlete’s message about the country. The NFL has risen to prominence in the last half-century as America’s true pastime at least in part because of how well it embodies the American ethos. Football Sunday is a kind of Sabbath for the country, and the NFL is the mother church of a new American civic religion. Through football, a one-hour spectacle of peak human performance and perfect pageantry is transubstantiated in real time into the country’s sustaining mythology. Americans see in football what they see in themselves. Kids from the bleakest conditions see heroes on the field from the same places. Adults soldier on through crushing workloads and illness with the template of godlike athletes playing through injury in their minds. Americans build lifelong and familial bonds through the sport—Packers, Patriots, and Panthers are bred and born everyday.
But the NFL is also a reflection of the worst parts of America, and its neuroses and pathologies. Violence between the lines is often accompanied by the dishonor of violence against women and other brutal off-the-field incidents, which often go unpunished by the league. The necessity of superhuman effort and workaholism breaks down human bodies and minds and has led to the NFL’s own mini-opioid epidemic. Science is regularly ignored when it runs up against profit, even when its portents are dire. And the very patriotism that now fuels the NFL—much of which is performed during the same anthem Kaepernick protests—has been attacked as a cynical exercise in paid propaganda.
Through history, activists have learned that the best way to fight the forces advancing militarism, bigotry, and poverty in the country has been to turn its worst impulses against it. Such was the crux of civil disobedience as practiced by Martin Luther King Jr. and the nonviolent segments of the civil-rights movement that he helped lead. That movement found that provoking exaggerated responses to rather minimal protests—sit-ins, marches, and bus rides—was useful in subverting American claims to virtue and the colorblindness of justice. Activists embraced prison time and other draconian measures from authorities—sometimes paying the ultimate price—as a method of showcasing just how deep injustice ran.
Kaepernick is not King; he is a multimillionaire athlete equipped with nondiscrimination and political-activism protections for which activists of King’s generation fought, and unburdened by some of the real dangers that they faced. But his protest does resemble those of previous athletes-turned-activists who put their livelihoods on the line to make statements. One of the popular arguments early on against Kaepernick was that he was too privileged, and that his protest had no real skin in the game. Or, as Forbes contributor Eric Macramalla put it last August: “There is one key feature that distinguishes Ali from Kaepernick, and that is sacrifice.”
A year later, such criticisms clearly missed the mark. Kaepernick has already sacrificed money, influence, and perhaps his career. And judging by his prioritization of activism across the globe now—with some 49ers staffers indicating “Kaepernick might actually rather do social justice work full-time than play quarterback”—that sacrifice appears to have always been the endgame.
Lost in most of the uproar over Kaepernick’s choice to kneel is the fact that none of the officers involved in the killings of Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott were convicted of any crime, and most never even saw trial. Despite the Trump administration’s condemnation of black protesters and the spread of the idea of a “Ferguson effect” chilling law enforcement and increasing crime, annual killings by police have barely changed over the past three years, and black and brown people still make up a highly disproportionate number of those slain. The country now faces up to eight years of a president and attorney general who have openly derided criminal-justice reforms and advocated to enact more carceral laws.
But in exposing the hypocrisy of the NFL—and by extension America—protests like Kaepernick’s may have longlasting effects. Already, the NFL faces the prospect of boycotts and a further erosion of its stained public image if Kaepernick isn’t signed. Tides turn quickly, and Kaepernick’s saga could be one of many tiny ripples that force the country away from denialism and toward progress.
It’s therefore possible that those who protested on behalf of people like Sterling, Castile, Crutcher, or Scott will one day be lauded as heroes—even as they are reviled today. Such is the American way of history. By the time King was killed in 1968, public opinion was tilted firmly against him. Tommie Smith and John Carlos were blackballed, and faced a multitude of death threats in their time, even as their protest is remembered now as one of the most remarkable moments in Olympic history. Ali once faced widespread denunciation and a ban from boxing for his political views and anti-patriotism, even as he is now upheld as the model activist-athlete by Americans of all races and ideologies. Kaepernick is carrying on that legacy. This country can be changed through sport, and his protest is just a first step.
At the end of Wind River, the major-film directorial debut of Taylor Sheridan, we are informed that no records are kept of how many Native American women go missing each year. It is an odd political note on which to conclude. Because while Wind River revolves around the disappearance and death of a young Native American woman, she is largely missing from the film herself, appearing alive only in one brief flashback.
Instead, the film is concerned principally with the fates of the fathers of such young women, two of whom appear in the film as principal characters. Which raises the questions: Is Wind River a story about the unacknowledged trials of Native American women? A sincere exploration of male grief? Or simply a vengeance movie that leverages the deaths of young women to up its emotional kick? I don’t doubt that Sheridan aspired to some combination of the first two; I fear that what he wound up with was closer to the final one.
Jeremy Renner plays Cory Lambert, a U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agent tasked with patrolling the snowy wildernesses of Wyoming in winter. While out hunting for a predatory mountain lion, he instead comes across the body of a young woman (Kelsey Asbille) frozen in the snow. She had been sexually assaulted before fleeing barefoot into the night, until her lungs literally burst from gulping the subzero air. Her name is Natalie, and she was the daughter of Martin (Gil Birmingham), a close friend of Cory’s.
Cory, too, lost a daughter to the unforgiving elements years earlier. He and his Native American wife (Julia Jones), since divorced, had gone out of town; an impromptu party thrown by their daughter got out of hand; and she, too, died alone in the snow under hazy circumstances. His stake now in discovering what happened to Natalie is personal and palpable, if perhaps a touch overdetermined.
The Disappointments of Detroit
Because the death took place on the Wind River Indian Reservation, jurisdictional questions abound. Ultimately, the investigation falls to a tribal policeman named Ben (the always wry and wonderful Graham Greene); an ill-equipped—literally, she’s just been flown in from Vegas without even a winter coat—FBI agent, Jane Banner (Elizabeth Olsen); and Cory, whose cold-weather hunting and tracking skills prove to be precisely what the case requires.
The mystery itself turns out not to be much of a mystery, and its abrupt solution, offered in flashback, is odd and disappointing. But from the start, it is apparent that writer-director Sheridan is more interested in the mood of his film than in the details of its plot. His two previous screenplays, for Sicario and Hell or High Water—both excellent—were set in the wilds of Texas. Here he opts for the still more desolate snowscapes of Wyoming. (The Coen brothers did something similar when, having set their first two films in the arid flats of the Southwest, they moved their sixth, Fargo, to frosty Minnesota.)
With the aid of the cinematographer Ben Richardson (Beasts of the Southern Wild), Sheridan makes the landscape itself—snowswept, dotted with trees and outcroppings of rock, carved up by the treads of snowmobiles—a character as vivid as the human ones: austere, secretive, and ominous. (As Cory explains at one point: “Luck don’t live out here. Luck lives in the cities.”) It is no accident that, whatever roles human agency played in the deaths of Natalie and Cory’s daughter, the actual killer was in both instances the frigid land itself.
Sheridan’s dialogue is once again sharp and understated, and he shows an aptitude with his cast. All deliver strong performances, in particular Olsen and Birmingham, the latter of whom also had a major role in Hell or High Water. (Sheridan is an actor himself, best known for his role on Sons of Anarchy.)
For all its strengths, Wind River stumbles in its final act, as it struggles to balance its themes of solemn grief, macho retribution, and gender and cultural enlightenment. But it is still a film worth seeing—as, one hopes, will be whatever films lie in Sheridan’s promising future.
This is the age of the cliffhanger. It is the age of the plot twist. It is the age that has taught people to make sense of the world not merely with that time-honored aid—the story—but also with stories that self-consciously mimic the serial workings of television. So the recent Congressional debates over the future of Obamacare resolved not just with a vote, but with “the most dramatic night in the United States Senate in recent history.” The recent increase in the bellicosity of the threats exchanged between the United States and North Korea have been understood not merely as escalation, but as “Game of Thrones rhetoric.” The presidency of Donald Trump, a man who was catapulted to national fame with the help of a reality TV show, is itself often interpreted as such a show, complete with heavy edits (“alternative facts”), victims, villains, and an assortment of cast members who are obsessed with winning and decidedly Not Here to Make Friends.
Serial Thriller
Into that environment—reality, as understood by “reality”—comes An Inconvenient Sequel: Truth to Power, the follow-up to An Inconvenient Truth, Al Gore’s 2006 documentary about climate change. The logic of dramatic serialization is in one way built into the sequel’s title: The 2017 version of Gore’s Oscar-winning film is, the new one promises, simply the next installment in the show—just another entry in the franchise. (Earth 2: Judgment Day? 2 Hot 2 Incurious?) But serialization infuses the movie in other ways, too: This version of Gore’s original PowerPointapalooza now features, true to its 2017 premiere date, distinct heroes, distinct villains, surprising plot twists, and, yes, a final, tantalizing cliffhanger. An Inconvenient Sequel has a narrative arc. It emphasizes action. It is, like its predecessor, technically a documentary; it is a documentary, however, that has internalized the idea that the world makes its best sense—that the world is, indeed, made most relatable and most recognizably human—as a TV show.
Here are some of the similarities between the original Inconvenient Truth and its sequel: Each film is extremely earnest in its message and extremely TED Talk in its aesthetic. Each stars—and, in a much deeper way, revolves around—Al Gore. And each frames Gore as a kind of Cassandra figure, enlightened and insistent and at this point only possibly tragic. (“Future generations may well have occasion to ask themselves, ‘What were our parents thinking? Why didn’t they wake up when they had the chance?’” Gore says, gravely, in An Inconvenient Truth. In An Inconvenient Sequel, the message is similar, but the tone is not: “What were you thinking?” Gore yells, angrily, on behalf of those future generations, at climate deniers and also, one suspects, at human complacency. “Couldn’t you hear what the scientists were saying? Couldn’t you hear what Mother Nature was screaming at you?”)
Perhaps above all, both films are trying to navigate the challenge that any such project—about a slow-moving tragedy, about a systemic and widespread phenomenon—will need to: To make the stakes palpable. To make the problem real for people, not just intellectually but emotionally. To take numbers and charts and graphs and carbon-emissions statistics and present them in such a way that a viewer will feel them, not just in her mind but in her gut. The truths Gore is talking about, after all, are so omnipresent as to be—or at least to threaten to be—invisible. They’re in the air we breathe and the water we drink and in the chill of an over-cooled office. They are lurking in all those delightful memes that came from the footage of Planet Earth II. They have transformed even that most conventionally dull of conversation topics—the weather—into something fraught and political and dangerous. They have also given way to a paradox: These things are so intimate they can, in fact, feel distant.
An Inconvenient Truth met its intrinsic challenge—to humanize climate change—by focusing on the work of one particular human: Al Gore. In the original film, Gore is a Virgil figure, describing the inferno he hopes to prevent. He guides viewers, armed with a slide deck and an earnest conviction in the power of persuasion, through the climate-change data that scientists have been gathering over the decades. Gore, in all this, is certainly a character, in the narrative sense. His tour of an imperiled planet is interwoven with a tour through his own recent history: the car accident that nearly took his young son’s life and made him question his priorities and his purpose; the loss of his sister, to lung cancer; the loss of the presidency, to George W. Bush; the mockery he endured at the hands of his fellow politicians. (“This guy is so far out in the environmental extreme,” George H.W. Bush put it in one speech, “we’ll be up to our necks in owls and out of work for every American.”)
And yet Gore, for the most part, plays the part of the messenger in An Inconvenient Truth. His own stories of loss and (potential) redemption cannily mirror the broader message Gore is attempting to send with the film itself: that humanity, too, can be redeemed. That we have had setbacks, yes, and struggles, yes, but we can move beyond them. We can be better. The tone of An Inconvenient Truth is somber—with all its dire statistics and sober warnings, it is the spiritual precursor of the recent New York article, “The Uninhabitable Earth”—and yet its upshot is decidedly optimistic: Change (for now) is still possible, An Inconvenient Truth insists. Humans, sufficiently enlightened and sufficiently committed, can shift the planet’s fate. They can move the tides, quite literally.
An Inconvenient Truth also adhered to the logic of the documentary, as a form: It had a distinctly participatory element to it. (It, like its sequel, was produced by the social-change-oriented production company named, fittingly enough, Participant Media.) This was a film that was rendered, in spirit and occasionally in practice, in the second person; its audience was part of the story. It was attempting to talk with people rather than at them. “Are you ready to change the way you live?” the film asked, in text rendered against a stark-black screen, at its conclusion. It continued: “The climate crisis can be solved. … You can reduce your carbon emissions. ... If you believe in prayer, pray that people will find the strength to change. … Encourage everyone you know to see this movie. … Learn as much as you can about the climate crisis. … Then put your knowledge into action.”
An Inconvenient Sequel concludes with a similar call to arms. (“Use your voice, … Convince your town/city/school to convert to 100-percent renewable energy. … Because your works depends on it.”) There’s a hashtag now, of course—#beinconvenient—and at the very end a reminder that Gore, in true TED Talk form, has converted his slide show into a 10-minute version that can be easily shared with anyone who doubts the veracity or the severity of global climate change. That all makes for a rather jarring ending, though, because An Inconvenient Sequel is for the most part decidedly third-person in its approaches. This is a story in the most Campbellian and conventional sense. It has distinct heroes (Gore, and Gore’s colleagues) and villains (Donald Trump). Its action builds to a single, climactic event (the United Nations’s conference on climate change, held in Paris in late 2015). It understands itself as a single episode in an ongoing saga. And: It is not so much making a case as it is simply telling a story. It is, in its own way, not here to make friends.
And what that means, as will be the case with any reality TV show, is a filtering of facts to fit the show’s established narrative conceits. We see Gore at the Paris talks, acting the world leader even though, technically, he is not one. (It would be decidedly awkward to have a protagonist who is not, also, the star.) We see the actual U.S. president, Barack Obama, who delivered a rousing speech at the conference, effectively sidelined from the drama. But we get in the president’s place a montage of behind-the-scenes policymaking starring Al Gore: Gore, talking with representatives from India about their economic objections to carbon-emissions regulations. Gore, on the phone with Lawrence Summers, the former U.S. Treasury secretary and chief economist of the World Bank, discussing ways to negotiate with India. Gore, on the phone with the investment banker Colin le Duc, sharing his plan to ask Elon Musk for solar-energy technology (“Elon has a record of giving up IP,” Gore notes, correctly). If Hollywood were in the practice of giving credits to inanimate objects, Al Gore’s iPhone might be listed as An Inconvenient Sequel’s guest star.
This emphasis on Gore as a journeying hero—and, with it, inevitably, this emphasis on the dealings of the powerful—is, in a sense, simply another instance of an Inconvenient film using the former vice president to mirror its broader message: Individual action can do only so much to solve the problem, the sequel, older and wiser and more jaded than the original, admits. The film’s subtitle, Truth to Power, ostensibly refers to resistance against the presidential administration that removed the U.S. from the agreement Gore (along with so many others) fought for in Paris. As the film plays out, though, the line also comes to refer, ironically, to Gore himself: What is Gore, after all, if not powerful? What is Gore doing, in those cheerily lit conference rooms and chauffeured European automobiles, if not exercising a kind of power that is not technically governmental, but that is extremely government-adjacent? Gore name-drops “Elon”; at the screening I attended, that elicited some audible groans.
But this is a film that trusts in its tropes, and one is not to meant to question Gore or his place in the world, physical or otherwise. An Inconvenient Sequel is not presented as a conversation-starter, after all, in the manner of the original; it is presented as a story to take or leave—a reality that has been captured and edited and filtered. Al Gore is the Bachelor, on his journey to happily ever after. He is the baker who has been honing his recipe for decades. He is the survivor.  He is the voice.
And Donald Trump, on the other hand—who appears only briefly, mostly through soundbites Gore listens to, stony-faced, as he stares out of a window into the middle distance—is the villain. He is, in this set-up, the guy who will ally with you and then betray you at Tribal Council. The guy who will steal your pea puree. The guy who is very much not here for the right reasons.
Which are all, to an extent, fair characterizations. Future generations very likely will judge Al Gore to be on the right side of our shared physical history, and Trump to be on the wrong. And climate policy itself, after all, as my colleague Robinson Meyer put it, “is made through diplomacy, international investments, and the aloof professionalism of the global business class”—and those are, collectively, “one of our best methods for actually solving (or, at least, managing) climate change.” You can in that way read An Inconvenient Sequel as a work of climate-focused realpolitik: a man and a mission, the former bending to the demands of the latter.
But you can also read An Inconvenient Sequel as unintentionally cynical. Tempered is the grassroots, activist spirit that accounts for much of the original’s box office success, not to mention its political and cultural impact. Tempered, too, is the sense that the audience here is not just an audience, but a potential collective actor—a potential participant in the story itself. (An Inconvenient Truth closes its many calls to action—reduce your carbon emissions, learn as much as you can about the climate crisis, then put your knowledge into action—with a proverb: “When you pray, move your feet.”) The sequel nods to all that (#beinconvenient); for the most part, though, it is awash in weariness. The fire of the original has been doused with frustration. The film, reflecting that, is more interested in storytelling than in conversation-starting.
That’s the thing about television: It asks extremely little of its viewers. It’s inviting in that way. It’s entertaining in that way. It conceives of life as a spectacle—full of heroes and villains and twists and turns—and is content simply to present its version of life to you, a neatly contained little story in a neatly contained little box, for as long as you’d enjoy the presentation. The TV won’t judge you if, after a long day at work, you come home and watch it for hours on end. The TV is nothing if not patient. The TV has all the time in the world. The question—and the real cliffhanger—is whether its viewers do, as well.
Readers, be warned: Good Time is not the easygoing romp its title suggests. The new movie from Joshua and Benny Safdie, the sibling team of indie filmmakers behind abrasive micro-budget cult hits like Daddy Longlegs and Heaven Knows What, is hardly a fun experience at the theater, but it is an unforgettable one. Propulsive, urgent, and frequently disturbing, Good Time is a techno-scored, 21st-century journey into New York’s criminal underbelly that manages to feel authentic and deeply surreal at the same time.
Who did the Safdie brothers recruit for this uncanny film? Robert Pattinson, of course—the one-time teen idol who now seems to enjoy defacing his movie-star looks in the name of art cinema. He was outstanding this year as the mumbling, bearded aide-de-camp in The Lost City of Z, and he’s even better here as Constantine Nikas, a small-time Queens bank robber trying to break his brother out of jail after a heist gone wrong. Good Time is nasty and sometimes unconscionably brutal, but it’s also the best film the Safdies have made, a (literally) grimy odyssey that’ll make you want to take a shower upon exiting the theater.
Indie Films to Look Forward to in 2017
The Safdies’ last movie, Heaven Knows What, was similarly tough to watch but followed more sympathetic subjects: a group of heroin addicts panhandling and trying to survive in Manhattan. Constantine (Connie to his friends) is concerned with a more immediate mess of his own making, a bank robbery that went south because of his inept, mentally challenged brother Nick (played, with surprising pathos, by Benny Safdie himself). Nick is soon arrested and sent to jail, but a fight gets him transferred to the hospital, from which Connie seeks to rescue him.
If this sounds like a poorly thought-out scheme, well, it is. Good Time is not a movie about a master criminal, and Connie’s plan doesn’t extend much beyond sneaking his brother past the cops and hiding out somewhere. The story is driven more by the powerful, largely unspoken connection between Connie (a live-wire bundle of energy) and Nick (who Connie thinks can’t survive without his help). Connie’s manic efforts to save his brother, which get him into deeper and deeper trouble as he tries to evade the police, are strangely relatable since they’re mostly non-violent. Even the bank robbery that leads off the film is a simple confidence trick, carried out by Connie silently passing threatening notes to a teller.
But then Good Time goes from a bizarre adventure to something more traditionally distressing, particularly after Connie and Ray (Buddy Duress), another prison escapee he’s gotten mixed up with, have a run-in with Dash (Barkhad Abdi), the security guard at an amusement park they try to hide out in. To the Safdies’ credit, they make no effort to varnish the inherent ugliness of Connie’s criminal life, nor the cruelty he’s willing to resort to if need be. But there’s an especially dark edge to the final act of the movie, as whatever initial motivations Connie might have had become less relevant to his desperate struggle to stay alive.
Through it all, Good Time is propelled by a pounding, synthy score from Daniel Lopatin (also known as the electronic musician Oneohtrix Point Never) and the brilliant cinematography of Safdie regular Sean Price Williams, who bathes Connie in various ghastly shades of neon as he stumbles further into the bowels of Queens. The Safdies are aiming for sensory overload, taking a classic genre of New York moviemaking (following “one crazy night,” like Martin Scorsese’s After Hours) and turning it into the ultimate bad trip.
The Safdies’ skill at shaping this upsetting story into something watchable is undeniable, but I’m not sure Good Time would work as well without Pattinson at its center. He’s gone from seeming like a superstar searching for art-film credibility—he was a little lost in David Cronenberg’s Cosmopolis (2012)—to one of Hollywood’s most genuinely exciting actors; Connie is certainly his finest performance to date. When Good Time hits its visceral lows, Pattinson keeps the movie from feeling like an exercise in futility, finding something human within a character who’s quickly losing himself in an atmosphere of total chaos.
To use the language likely heard in music-industry boardrooms circa 2010, around the time of the great female pop-superstar boom, Kesha once benefitted from strong market differentiation. She wasn’t the cryptic alien provocateur Lady Gaga; she wasn’t the coy Betty Boop update Katy Perry; she wasn’t the unflappable fashion assassin Rihanna. She was the glorious, superheroic epitome of a very familiar type—the party girl. In neon face paint and with a dollar sign in her name, she squealed about brushing her teeth with booze and sleeping with the heirs to Mick Jagger. She was fun: the brand.
But this was, in a way, just a different flavor of the same product on offer elsewhere. Kesha’s music was powered by the backbeat of Dr. Luke, a producer who’d helped set the template for 2000 club-pop and who’d been groomed by Max Martin, the most important architect of hits for a few decades now. She also was on-trend thematically: Her hedonism handily doubled as capital-e Empowerment, serving as a rallying cry for misfits and the marginalized. She sassily bit back at male creeps (“Gonna smack him if he getting too drunk”), casually preached self-acceptance (“We R Who We R”), and insisted that girls could have as much a good time as guys without being called sluts. In their way, the likes of Gaga and Perry did something similar—baby, you were born this way; baby, you’re a firework.
The Exquisite Horror in Lana Del Rey's Nostalgia
The novelty of such an act might be expected to wear off eventually, but the public never  got a chance to fully get its fill of Kesha. Instead, about two years after her 2012 sophomore album, Warrior,  she filed a lawsuit against Dr. Luke alleging abuse, sexual assault, artistic tyranny, and general horrible behavior by the producer. The illusion of her invulnerable persona was smashed forever—and its origins given grim new context with the assertion that Dr. Luke had manipulated her starting in 2005, when she was 18. The suit sought to end her contract with him; he denied all allegations; a long legal battle has resulted in no ruling on the merits of the accusations but rather a series of procedural losses for Kesha. She recently announced her intention to move on from this ugly chapter by releasing new music.

Her comeback album, Rainbow, is fascinating in terms of narrative and fine-just-fine in terms of pop. It is being released by Kemosabe Records, the imprint that Dr. Luke founded but no longer runs, and has come out reportedly with his “support” but not involvement. It appears he will get a cut of the profits. Lyrically, Kesha’s show of resilience doesn’t have a ton of specificity about what she’s overcoming—which is perhaps an artistic choice, or perhaps a sign of legally prudent caginess. What’s certain is that the outrageous character and commercial force Kesha once represented is gone, replaced by a human being: poignant, striving, and flawed.
Though Kesha’s situation isn’t fully precedented in pop, the spectacle of resetting after a setback is, and the most common tropes of the licking-one’s-wounds narrative are all here. Like Gaga with last year’s Joanne, Kesha trades thumping electro for analogue instruments and genres that, fairly or not, have an easier time being perceived as “authentic”: rock and roll, country, folk. Also like Gaga, she tries to execute this turn while tamping down, but not altogether ditching, her previous persona. Kesha opens the album with a slowly blossoming acoustic singalong, but she peppers it with “motherfuckers” and “assholes” as she would have with any given song five years ago. She goes full cowpunk on the love-crazed “Hunt You Down,” but harkens back to her old “Cannibal” shtick by saying, cheekily, that she probably won’t murder a guy who cheats on her.

Somewhat stripped down as Kesha is here, you get a clear sense of what made her musically distinct all along. It’s that voice, sharp and nasal and highly conversational, earning cringes from skeptics but a strong sense of kinship from fans. She can also belt with soul, and she cares about articulation—no lyrics sheet required to follow along. With a writing credit on all but two songs (both of which are cowritten by her mom, Pebe Sebert, including a 1980 Dolly Parton cut updated here with Parton’s participation), it’s also as obvious as ever that Kesha is accomplished in the art of pop songcraft. The title ballad in particular, reportedly written while she was in rehab for an eating disorder, captures the sense of “falling right back in love with being alive” with remarkable finesse. Dense with syllables but also graceful, it could be a showstopper in Disney’s follow-up to Frozen or Moana—no small feat.
That track and the single “Praying” both stand out for their reconciliation of the limits of the radio-pop form with walloping trauma and emotion. “Praying” in particular just gets more brutal with each listen, both because of her vocal performance and because of the tricky way it threads the line between condemnation and acceptance. A slightly more uptempo single, “Learn to Let Go,” makes for a competent empowerment anthem in line with current radio trends (islands lilt? check). It also shows some nice self-awareness: “I know I’m always, like, telling everybody you don’t got to be a victim … I think it’s time to practice what I preach.” The track’s currently sitting at the low end of the Hot 100, but just one good TV-drama soundtrack deployment could turn it into a hit.
Elsewhere, she determinedly signals that her old party-animal ways aren’t gone. “Woman,” a straightforward feminist cry with sax touches from the Dap Kings, is laced with snippets of laughter—a winning, if not altogether convincing, touch. “Boogie Feet,” featuring the Eagles of Death Metal, has her screaming like a member of Sleater-Kinney before delivering her vintage so-dumb-it’s-fabulous rapping: “Some people they got the big brains / They make all the computer games.” The engines of the fast songs are purring guitars and live drums, and while the results are catchy and charmingly brash, they’re also a challenge to a pop-radio landscape that has mostly exiled rock.
Even on such highlights, though, there’s a sense of tentative-ness that blunts the material’s impact. For all the profanity she threads in, her account of the healing process doesn’t quite transcend the generic; if only she were able to make like, say, Alanis Morissette, and use her sailor’s mouth for tarter, smarter poetry. “Don’t let the assholes wear you out / Don’t let the mean girls take the crown / Don’t let the scumbags screw you ‘round / Don’t the bastards take you down,” she sings on the opener, “Bastards,” letting common teenage disses do most of the descriptive work.
There is one memorably unique through line, though, and it’s about religion. On songs like “Hymn,” “Finding You,” and “Spaceship,” she seems to be inventing her own faith, insisting on an afterlife of aliens and energy while noticeably avoiding Christian iconography: “Lord knows this planet feels like a hopeless place,” she sings on the closer. “Thank God I’m going back home to outer space.” This cheeky new-age kick is also the direction hinted at in her trippy album art, but Rainbow itself is so caught up reacting to Kesha’s recent real-world narrative that it never fully develops its dreamscape. As she continues to rebuild her career, she might do well to find a way back to wild, uplifting fantasy—which she can, one hopes, now control more fully.
Just a few pages into Tom Perrotta’s Mrs. Fletcher, Eve, a mother in her mid-40s, overhears her teenage son receiving oral sex in his bedroom from his ex-girlfriend. What offends Eve isn’t what’s happening, exactly—she’s already made a point of explaining that she’s not a puritanical mom but a cool mom, who gives her son plenty of space and even offers to pick up condoms at the grocery store. But she’s alarmed, even repulsed, by what she hears: Brendan, her beloved only child, delivering sexual instructions in a parlance that, Eve deduces, is ripped right from hardcore pornography.
Eve recalls attending PTA seminars where a blustering county prosecutor warned parents about “the insane amount of pornography that kids were exposed to every day, a tsunami of filth unprecedented in human history.” In this environment, the man rants, it will take “constant, unwavering vigilance to keep your kids safe.” At the time, Eve and the other parents concluded that he was being hysterical—that all you had to do was teach your kids the right values, and they’d have the tools to become grounded and empathetic adults. But Brendan’s casual, degrading lingo proves how naively wrong this way of thinking was.
Is Porn Culture to Be Feared?
Or does it? Mrs. Fletcher, over the next 300 pages, explores the redefining of American sex lives by technology, but the primary person affected isn’t Brendan. Rather, it’s Eve, whose “accidental” visit to a porn site leads to a nightly obsession. Perrotta explores the ripples that reverberate from her new habit: how Eve starts to view even the most casual everyday activities through a sexualized lens, but also how pornography alters her own conception of herself as a woman. Mrs. Fletcher is a wry, compassionate novel about the ramifications of porn filtering so effortlessly into mainstream culture, without hysteria or accusations. Perrotta, well-versed in capturing the manifold follies and fetishes of human behavior, knows enough by now to gently emphasize that sex is as complicated as people are, and pornography no less so. To simply categorize porn as a malign influence on vulnerable minds is to ignore what it really says about desire.
And yet. Porn is more prevalent than ever before, watched by 82 percent of men and 60 percent of women. It’s also easier than ever to find, and free. In the U.S., it’s replacing sexual education for a generation reared on abstinence-only and limited awkward discussions with their parents. The nature of our anxieties about porn hasn’t shifted—back in the early aughts, Naomi Wolf was documenting how online porn was ruining real sex for young men—but the ease with which we’re able to find it has. But we still have no real idea what the consequences might be of making porn so readily available to anyone with a phone.
It’s this question that the writer Jon Ronson considers in The Butterfly Effect, a sprawling, frustrating new seven-part audio series available for free on Audible, soon to be released in podcast form via iTunes. Ronson starts with a single event, a German businessman who sees the lucrative potential in enabling people to share porn online, and examines the consequences that ensue. Occasionally they’re cultural: He interviews a Christian woman who’s a porn addict and talks to an autistic teenager who’s on the sex offenders registry because he sent sexually explicit images to a friend. But Ronson’s curiosity is more frequently piqued by the people who’ve lost their livelihoods thanks to free porn: the producers in the San Fernando Valley whose earnings are way down and the former actor who lost his job as a nurse after his hardcore scenes became more widely available online. Thanks to one man—the flap of a butterfly’s wings, Ronson argues—millions of lives have been upended.
How porn has affected consumers is unclear: Given how much debate there is over the current glut of porn, there’s surprisingly little research about what it’s doing to us. Some psychologists and activists state that it’s grooming young men to interpret violence as normal sexual behavior, and just last year, Republicans added an amendment to their 2016 policy platform defining porn as a “public health crisis.” But other mental-health experts liken fear of pornography to a moral panic, arguing that all parents need to do is educate kids that porn is fiction: as alien to real sex as the Olympics are to flip cup. Amid the confusion, writers like Ronson and Perrotta are picking up the slack, pondering how an abundance of graphic, hardcore sex to view might be changing the world. Their methods are very different, but their deductions align.
* * *
Ronson starts his story with an anecdote. He was meeting a porn actress in a Los Angeles hotel in 2013, he explains, when he happened to observe the hotel receptionist’s face when the actress walked in. “It was a look of total contempt,” Ronson says, in his northern English drawl, familiar to anyone who’s listened to This American Life. “It made me think that some people are only comfortable with porn people when they’re on their computers, and not in their immediate vicinity.” One of Ronson’s quirks is that he describes porn actresses and actors not as “stars” but as “porn men” and “porn women,” an oddly charming and childlike turn of phrase that evokes images of erotic Lego figures. He also adds a plosive emphasis to the “p” at the beginning of “porn” every time he says it, which is often.
The Butterfly Effect is about what happened “because of Fabian.” In the 1990s, Fabian Thylmann was a teenager in Brussels using CompuServe to trade passwords to porn sites with other teenagers. At the time, Ronson says, the only way to gain access to pornography online was with a credit-card number. But by 2010, when Thylmann bought the company that owned the streaming site PornHub, users had long since figured out how to upload their own adult videos. Thylmann consolidated the free-porn industry, ferociously buying up competitors and paid sites. By 2012, Ronson explains, 80 percent of people watching porn were doing so on one of Thylmann’s sites. In 2013, PornHub had between 65 and 70 million visitors a day.
This has, Ronson explains, been disastrous for the people who actually make porn, and his main aim with the series seem to be understanding the force of the impact on them. It’s a worthwhile, if slightly familiar, goal, given that the story of porn in 2017 is similar to so many stories of businesses made commercially unviable by technology—with a few colorful tweaks. The algorithmic classification of porn, Ronson explains, has defined two kinds of female performers, MILFs and teens, and anyone between the ages of 22 and 29 is now finding it near-impossible to get work, unless they fit into another category (“If you’re 26 with a huge butt you can do big-butt movies,” a producer explains).
But most of all, Ronson seems outraged by the fact that such a thriving industry could be desolated by technology, as if it’s never happened before in any other medium. It almost starts to feel like his real subject isn’t porn at all but the cruelty of an unfettered free market. As Irvine Welsh wrote in Porno, “If you really want to see how capitalism operates, never mind Adam Smith’s pin factory, this is the place to study.” Ronson repeatedly emphasizes Thylmann’s wealth, asking him how many cars he has, and interviewing an artist commissioned to paint a mural in Thylmann’s house, who opines about the fishtanks that require a diver to clean, and how his pool retracts like something out of a Bond film.
The biggest problem with porn, The Butterfly Effect posits, is that it’s free and easy to access. It’s a little simplistic to put this all on Thylmann, since porn-sharing sites have operated since at least the early aughts, and if he hadn’t consolidated free porn there would still be a bonanza of individual sites going it alone. (One errant observation of mine is that lamenting the internet is an odd thing to do in a podcast being released exclusively as a download.) Ronson’s most compelling episodes, by contrast, focus on the why of porn—its appeal not just for the obvious reasons, but for people who are lonely, or repressed, or damaged. He spends two episodes examining the world of custom porn, where enterprising actors and producers have set up a new business making tailored videos for wealthy private clients who specify exactly what they want.
Custom videos often aren’t sexual at all. In one, a woman is doused in ketchup. In another, two actresses set a man’s stamp collection on fire. These are specific fetishes, coming from specific psychological places. At Ronson’s behest, a porn actress interviews the man who commissioned the stamp video, who explains how his obsession with stamps had come to dominate his life and ruin his relationship. His video is an act of liberation. Another custom client requests a video of Wonder Woman being kidnapped by a gremlin, which is baffling to the producers until he explains that his mother left home when he was five. The gremlin is a manifestation of his younger self, trying desperately to stop Wonder Woman from leaving.
* * *
The idea that people are held prisoner by their own desires is also fertile ground for Perrotta: His 2004 book Little Children featured a discontented feminist housewife whose husband leaves her for an online porn star named Slutty Kay, and a pedophile grief-stricken by the loss of his mother. What’s distinctive about Mrs. Fletcher, though, is how passively and unenthusiastically his characters go about their sex lives, almost as if they have no say in the matter. “Tinder was like tequila—fun today, sad tomorrow—but sometimes you didn’t have a choice,” thinks Amanda, who works for Eve at the local senior center. Eve, meanwhile, is “addicted to internet porn,” even though it makes her feel more alone.
For as much as Eve’s new porn habit leads her to do inappropriate things—simply because she’s gotten so used to the idea propagated by internet porn that everyone in the world is having sex all the time, regardless of age, or gender, or body type—it also leads to a potent reawakening. She goes from being defined by her relationships to other people (mother, boss) to feeling seen by them as herself (an anonymous late-night text reads U r my MILF!). In the hands of a clumsier storyteller, it would be less of a revelation. But there’s freedom, and folly, for Eve in identifying as a sexual object at 46. (The book’s title would seem to be a sly reference to another married midlife woman with an inconvenient libido.)
Brendan, though, installed as a freshman in college, is paradoxically having no sex at all. One of the sharpest elements of Mrs. Fletcher is how Perrotta presents two opposing forces colliding on campus: porn culture and PC culture. Brendan falls for Amber, a smart young woman who’s “painfully aware of the mismatch between her politics and her desires”—she’s a thoughtful, sensitive intersectional feminist who’s somehow only attracted to jocks.
Perrotta makes it clear that Brendan has hidden depths, and isn’t as much of a jerk as high school has conditioned him to be. But he also has no idea how to interact with women. His casual familiarity with porn has left him with distorted ideas of how people behave in bed; he and his friends have become so habituated to the idea of a standardized female body that any deviation from the norm revolts them. Then he’s thrust into a college climate that demands aggressive sensitivity from teenage boys. Describing his first week in college, Brendan writes, “The weather was beautiful, which meant that lots of hot girls were wearing cutoffs and bikini tops ... Some of the less hot girls stripped down too, and everybody tried to be cool about it, because body image and all that.”
For Eve, porn expands her consciousness. But it confines Brendan’s. Perrotta approaches the subject of pornography with an open mind, but he’s attuned to its consequences, good and bad. Eve, who came of age in a feminist environment where porn was decried as abusive to women, comes to see it differently. Brendan, whose ex watches YouTube tutorials on blow jobs, begins to understand that sex isn’t just a purely physical act. Quietly, Perrotta points out that porn itself isn’t the problem—it’s the people who watch it.
It’s a surprisingly simple argument, and yet a shocking one, in a culture that’s as polarized over porn as it is over everything else. What if porn is neither good, nor bad, but both? What if it enables some people to feel less isolated even while it conditions others to do things they regret? It’s a conclusion Ronson almost gets at. Midway through The Butterfly Effect, he documents some people who’ve been harmed by porn, and almost all are teenagers. But he ends with a custom video in which a client asks for a video of a woman sitting cross-legged on the floor, telling the camera that he’s not alone, that he’s loved, that it will get easier. Is it porn, or therapy? It’s hard to tell.
On the afternoon of July 31, Major League Baseball’s trade deadline, the Los Angeles Dodgers acquired Yu Darvish, the best pitcher on the market, from the Texas Rangers. Four days later, Darvish debuted in his new team’s gray and blue road uniforms, lasering fastballs and looping curves for seven shutout innings. The Dodgers beat the New York Mets, 6-0, improving the best record in baseball this season to 77 wins against 32 losses. Said the catcher Yasmani Grandal of Darvish after the game, “It’s hard to say you can get any better than he was tonight.”
Grandal’s sentiment was accurate but hardly specific; the same could be said of most of the players on the Dodgers’s roster, most nights, and of the team as a whole. The 2017 Dodgers have been remarkable in every facet of the game, by any metric. They have scored the fifth-most runs in the Majors and allowed the fewest. They hit homers and doubles and play lockstep defense behind a pitching staff stuffed with aces. During one recent 50-game stretch, they won a record-tying 43 times, in every fashion imaginable: piecemeal comebacks, walk-off home runs, wire-to-wire blowouts.
The Rare Vin Scully
Dominant teams usually present a dilemma to fans who enjoy the displays but wish for tight pennant races. But even though they are 15 games clear of the pack in their own division and all but guaranteed a playoff spot already, the Dodgers’s regular season still has plenty of intrigue left, supplied by history instead of opponents. If it maintains its recent pace, the team could break the all-time mark for wins in a season, set at 116 by the 1906 Chicago Cubs and matched almost a century later by the 2001 Seattle Mariners.
Despite those gaudy aims and a quarter-billion-dollar payroll that ranks as the highest in baseball, there is a likable aspect to the roster, an almost quaint adherence to the ideal of the well-rounded team. The Dodgers have their superstars, of course—Darvish joins Clayton Kershaw, the franchise’s icon and the decade’s best pitcher, and the shortstop wunderkind Corey Seager, as names even casual followers of the game will recognize—but their role players and fill-ins have contributed just as much to the trailblazing season. When Adrian Gonzalez, the entrenched All-Star first baseman, left the team in June with a back injury, the rookie Cody Bellinger stepped in and soon found himself near the top of the National League home-run leaderboard. Chris Taylor and Justin Turner, peripheral players prior to joining L.A. in recent years, both rank in the top 10 in NL batting average. Alex Wood, who before this season was known more for his gyroscopic throwing motion than for his results, has performed ably as the team’s top pitcher while Kershaw has sat with a short-term back ailment of his own.
The Dodgers’s manager Dave Roberts—the reigning manager of the year, befitting this superlative team—maintains calm. “It is history in the making,” Roberts acknowledged recently, “But when you get back to the day-to-day, I don’t think anyone is really thinking about that.” His players might not be getting caught up in the hype, but the rest of the sports world is. The Dodgers have accomplished what the NBA’s Golden State Warriors did two seasons ago, when they broke their sport’s regular-season record of 72 wins: turned the sometimes-dull formality of playing out the schedule into an event in and of itself. Every day brings new stories about L.A.’s chances of reaching the historic mark, and the traditionally stodgy baseball media have adopted an industry-wide attitude of outright awe. A recent ESPN.com headline, “Why We Should All Root for an Astros-Dodgers World Series,” summarized the perspective of fans and journalists alike: This Los Angeles team is a movie nobody wants to end.
Monumental regular seasons do not necessarily lead to championships. Neither of the 116-win teams won the World Series, and over the past decade, the team with the best record has claimed the title only four times. All of the statistical sense-making of the 162-game baseball schedule disappears in the short series of the playoffs, where hot streaks have outsized effect and long-term steadiness doesn’t count for much. The Dodgers have their own recent history of failure to contend with, too. They have reached the playoffs in each of the past four years without advancing to the Series; their last championship came almost three decades ago, in 1988.
The Dodgers’s ultimate hope, then, is that this year’s assemblage of talent is good enough to overcome the flukiness inherent to the postseason. They aim to be not only favored but also foolproof, to have enough fallback options and contingency plans to answer any bit of bad luck with some squirreled-away parcel of virtuosity. The comparisons to the Warriors are double-edged; that record-breaking Golden State team ended up losing in the NBA Finals. So while the Dodgers are surely happy to put on a show for the remaining month and a half of the regular season—and baseball fans are thrilled to watch it—the real test will have to wait until October, when their banked wins evaporate and they have to prove themselves all over again.
The story of M.I.A.’s Kala is one of being locked out of somewhere and having a great time anyways. The London rapper Maya Arulpragasam had planned to record the follow-up to her acclaimed 2005 debut Arular in the United States largely with the legendary producer Timbaland, but she said that immigration authorities prevented her entry. It’s hard to verify why that was the case—she’d been to America before, and she’d come again—but M.I.A. has maintained it was her lyrics: “‘Oh no, she said the word ‘P.L.O.’ in a song!’” she summarized to Rolling Stone. So she traveled the globe for collaborators and venues to work in.
The tale fits all too well with the sound and the message of the album, one of the best of the new millennium. The creativity and diversity of sources across Kala, which turns 10 on August 8, not only made for an addictively fun listen that spawned a sui generis smash (“Paper Planes”). It also embraced the much-hyped rise of globalization and digital communitarianism only to execute a clever political flip, tweaking the West not as culturally supreme but rather as tragically provincial. A decade later, her all-out razzing of the concept of borders has never been more relevant.
The Rapper of Refugees
A childhood refugee from Sri Lanka who spent her adolescence in the U.K., M.I.A. first drew buzz with the rave-influenced, DIY austerity of Arular. “You’ve never heard anything like M.I.A.—the sound of jump-rope rhymes in a war zone,” wrote Rob Sheffield in his Rolling Stone review of that album. For a lot of Americans, discussing M.I.A. without echoing tropes of exoticism can be tricky, and it’s hard to miss that the “you” of that sentence is decidedly specific: the listener of the West, not steeped in the gaana and Bollywood and dancehall and other styles M.I.A had grown up with or immersed herself in. But it’s crucial to note that M.I.A., too, tends to use the second-person pronoun to address the West. In her songs there’s “we”—huge swaths of the world that are often reduced to an asterisk in the American consciousness—and there’s “you.” Focusing on the “we” serves an obvious political purpose, but also an aesthetic one, allowing for musical freshness and lyrical subversion. As she says on “20 Dollar,” “Talking about you’s such a bore, I’d rather talk about moi.”

You could hear this confrontational, cliché-conscious mindset most gloriously on the opener to Kala, “Bamboo Banga.” Over an ominous thrum of cut-up static, vehicle zooming, and hammering drums, M.I.A. coolly defined her constituency and her genre: “Somalia, Angola, Ghana, Ghana, Ghana, India, Sri Lanka, Burma, bamboo banga / This the bamboo banga.” What was so ingenious about the track was the subtle way it blossomed from deadpan manifesto to party: Her go-to producer Switch added in just a smidge of bass syncopation and the mix frothed over with sing-song samples from the Indian film composer Ilaiyaraaja. “I’m knockin’ on the doors of your hummer,” M.I.A. said, and the listener had to decide whether to open up.
Because from there, the album only got headier and more surprising as M.I.A. drew connections between cultures and identities with her own individual sense of play. The second and third tracks, “Bird Flu” and “Boyz,” were particularly brazen experiments built on thunderous, multi-sourced drum patterns and high, taunting chants: “na, na, na.” Such chants are (among other things) the verbal weapons of children, perhaps more specifically girls, and the big target of both songs were men—both rich music-industry types and slum dwellers turning in desperation to violence: “How many no-money boys are rowdy? How many start a war?” M.I.A.’s gaze was wide, and she was making an argument about how similar power dynamics exist in vastly different places and situations.
As she was making Kala, M.I.A. was so in her own headspace that she reportedly believed the frenetic “Bird Flu” and “Boyz” could be the big hits of the album rather than the bubblegummier “Paper Planes.” What those songs really turned out to be were the purest displays of her polyglot approach. “Every record I make is about equal appreciation of all cultures, unified and layered so they co-exist,” she told Fader in 2016. She added that this was why on “Boyz” she took “a 2,000 year old drum beat, which is called ‘dupping’ … to Jamaica,” and then to other countries, for musical cross-pollination. The point was peace, as she’d reiterate with the motto for her recent album A.I.M.: “Uniting People Since 2003.”
But unity, the rapper has always insisted, does not mean homogeneity, as seen in the diverse set of songwriting approaches across the album. “Jimmy” recreated a Bollywood standby with slicker production and new lyrics about a love affair with a white journalist on a “genocide tour.” “Mango Pickle Down River” remixed a novelty rap song by aboriginal children, retaining the adorability of the original but adding in a quick line about the meth problem in rural Australia—which is as, Americans know, not limited to rural Australia. The U.S. and U.K.’s enormous cultural influences were stitched in as well, with clever interpolations of indie-rock touchstones (The Clash, the Pixies, New Order, The Modern Lovers) and references to rappers like T.I. Never were the underlying politics expressed with pedantry or sentimentality—almost everything was danceable.

Could the album be made today? In 2007, “cultural appropriation” was not nearly as ubiquitous a term as it is now, and M.I.A. would soon after be at the forefront of debates of what constitutes exploitation in artistic culture-hopping: A New York Times profile would paint her as privileged tourist; a music video would be nixed by her label for parachuting into Côte d’Ivoire. Kala, though, shows she was always savvy about this subject: She gave credit where it was due, offered guests a chance to speak about their own lives, and engineered musical alliances out of an activist spirit. On “Hussel,” for example, she featured the rapper Afrikan Boy talking about the stresses of living as an undocumented immigrant: “Police, I try to avoid them / They catch me hustling they say, ‘Deport them!’”
That was by no means the only place Kala reworked rap tropes of striving and struggle for a global context. There’s something cosmically perfect about the fact that it was “Paper Planes,” of all songs, that broke out, bringing M.I.A. a top-10 hit in the U.S. and a remarkable performance on the Grammys stage while she was nine months pregnant. The verses were about hustling to forge immigration paperwork—relevant, given Kala’s creation story. Moreover, it was a cheeky tour through stereotypes about immigration and poor people. The children’s choir singing that all they want to do is bang, bang, bang and take your money was so innocent-sounding, and the persona M.I.A. inhabited was so clearly a riff on gangsta rap, that it’s hard to imagine anyone missing the joke. But the gunshots got censored, some listeners were offended, and, in the way of great disruptive earworms, it entered longterm radio rotation.
On its 10th birthday, Kala feels newly relevant amid global political currents trending toward isolationism—and due to enduring refugee crises in many of the places that M.I.A. continues to represent in her music. The total entertainment value of the album attests to the vibrancy and humanity of what M.I.A. termed, in one standout track, the “World Town” that travel bans and border walls seek to shut out. As importantly, Kala’s loud celebration of people that have been categorized as “other” spoke up for values that the West likes to think aren’t actually foreign to it. In the acknowledgements to Kala, M.I.A. wrote, “I’d especially like to thank who ever said ‘I’m a citizen of the world and my religion is to do good.’” The person she was paraphrasing was Thomas Paine.
This post reveals plot points for the finale of The Bachelorette Season 13.
Women are often told to settle. For just a little less money. A little less respect. A little less space in the world. The tellings aren’t generally meant unkindly—they’re meant more as realistic reflections of the world and what it is—but they tend to accumulate over time, injecting themselves into women’s understandings of themselves and the places they occupy in their careers, in their finances, and perhaps especially in their romantic relationships. American pop culture sells soaring ideas about romance and soulmates and Happilys Ever After. It whispers, all the while: “Settle, though. Just a little.”
Did Rachel Lindsay settle? When she chose her fiancé during the finale of her season of The Bachelorette on Monday, did she, as so many viewers suggested, compromise her desires? Or did she, instead, take a stand for the validity of those desires?
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV
It went, basically, like this: After Rachel eliminated Eric Bigger from the final three men vying for her heart, her choice came down to Peter Kraus, who was a fan favorite, and Bryan Abasolo, who was not. Peter leveled with her: He takes marriage seriously. He wanted to propose to someone once, and only once. He didn’t feel ready to make that proposal to Rachel—not because he didn’t love her, but because he simply needed more time to be sure he was ready for such a commitment.
Bryan, on the other hand, was very much ready: To plan a life with Rachel, geography (she lives in Dallas; he lives in Miami) be damned. To sit down with Neil Lane (yes! the man himself!) and pick out an approximately 5,000-carat ring. And then to use that ring as a sparkling prop when he, in Bachelorette parlance, “got down on one knee.”
So while Monday’s finale hewed to the contours that any such finale will—a high-stakes choice, edited for maximum drama—this one had a distinct spin to it, one that was largely about the collision between expectations and reality: Rachel wasn’t choosing, in the end, between two men who were planning to propose to her. She was instead (at least according to the editing that will make any season of The Bachelorette what it is) making a choice between getting engaged and not getting engaged. Rachel, from the beginning, had said that she wanted to be engaged by the show’s conclusion. Bryan could give her that. Peter could not.
She chose Bryan.
In one way, yes, it was a disappointment. Rachel, after all, is an especially great Bachelorette. She is especially smart. She is especially successful in her career. She is especially funny. She is especially charismatic. She is especially kind. And Bryan is … fine. He had received Rachel’s First Impression rose, certainly, and had chemistry with Rachel from the beginning that has only grown. But, again, the stakes here weren’t presented as matters of chemistry. They were presented, by the show itself, as matters of practicality. Many viewers, because of that, saw her choice as an especially sad kind of victory: the workings of the head over the hopings of the heart. The objection wasn’t just that Bryan had previously been on another reality show—a red flag, Right Reasons-wise. It was also that he, per The Bachelorette’s setup, was not so much the soul mate as the rebound guy. And it was also that Rachel, who has always seemed too good for this show, once again seemed to deserve better.
As one viewer put it: “Rachel was clearly in love with Peter. Bryan was runner-up. She chose him because he was willing to give her a ring … she should have chosen true love over a ring.”
You could also read Rachel’s choice, though, in the opposite way: as an outcome worth celebrating. And not just because it was Rachel’s choice, which should perhaps in itself be the end of the discussion. Rachel also, after all, stuck to her guns: She refused to compromise her desires. She refused to settle. She took a long history—women, being made to settle; women of color, in particular, being made to settle—and looked it in the eyes and said, “Not today.” She had wanted to be proposed to (The Bachelorette is a show that will give a woman her pick of men to date, but that cannot envision her being the one to pop the question)—and she got, in the end, exactly what she wanted.
Which is also to say that, on national television, before an audience of millions, Rachel Lindsay did something mildly, and yet notably, subversive: She articulated a desire and then made choices to ensure that the desire was met. She was ready to settle down, she said from the beginning; at this point, it seems, that is precisely what she will do. You may not love the guy she is settling down with, but she is not at all, in that sense, settling.
The Bachelorette, for everything else it is about, is also a show about belief—in love, in marriage, in the idea that one wayward soul can find its way to another with the help of hot tubs and helicopters and sun-drenched Spanish vineyards. There has always been, in its machinations, a note of Kierkegaard: This is a show that believes, perhaps more than anything else, in leaps of faith. Many of the dates The Bachelorette sets up for its couples involve, yes, literal jumps: skydiving, cliff-jumping, plunges from yachts into sparkling Caribbean seas. But the show’s workings themselves—meet on national television, date on national television, get engaged on national television, go on to have a fulfilling and stable marriage—also require a certain amount of faith-leaping. They require a couple to trust wholly in the process, and in The Bachelor franchise’s highly produced approach to love itself; otherwise, the whole thing falls apart.
Rachel’s choice in the finale was an especially bold distillation of that approach—and another way in which Rachel chose not to settle. Peter, after all, had broken that faith; he had, in questioning the speed of the engagement, articulated doubt about the mechanics of the show itself. He had, in the show’s conception, lost faith in the process. Rachel, however, had not. She didn’t merely, in that sense, choose Bryan; she also chose faith—in reality television, in the Bachelorette producers, in the kind of love that can conquer everything else.
On Tuesday morning, she and Bryan appeared together on ABC’s Live with Kelly and Ryan. Ryan Seacrest read her the viewer letter suggesting that “she chose [Bryan] because he was willing to give her a ring.”
“It’s so funny to me,” Rachel replied. “I’ve never been one to settle or to be desperate for anything … that’s why I was 32 and still single. So, like, when people say things like that, like Bryan was runner-up, I’m like, no, I think you can clearly see that I have a lot of love for Bryan. I never would have just chosen a ring.”
She added: “I chose Bryan for a reason. Peter had his chance.”
Part of the pleasure of watching Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp, the 2015 prequel series to David Wain’s cult comedy film, was the sheer absurdity of its existence. A parody of the endless march of revivals and off-brand sequels thrown at audiences, the show took the cast of comic actors who played a bunch of teenagers in 2001 (when they were already too old for the part), brought them all back 14 years later, and had them play even younger versions of themselves. The audacity of First Day of Camp was more than enough to make the whole endeavor, which aired over eight episodes on Netflix, worthwhile.
Now, the entire cast (with one notable exception) has reunited again for another eight-episode Netflix series, Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, a sequel to the original film that now has its ensemble playing their 2001 characters as 10 years older, placing them somewhere in their mid-20s. It’s still ridiculous—stars like Elizabeth Banks, Paul Rudd, Michael Showalter, and Amy Poehler are all in their 40s now—but the absurdity is less pronounced. Where First Day of Camp was concerned with a delightfully convoluted narrative designed to set up the events of the original film, Ten Years Later is more free to pursue whatever it wants. But that freedom ends up feeling like a burden.
Wet Hot American Summer’s Wild, Triumphant Return
There’s no real reason for these spinoff TV shows to exist, after all. The original Wet Hot American Summer is the perfect kind of slow-burning comedy favorite, a flop upon release that built up a following because of its stars (many of whom went on to greater fame), its moments of surrealism, and its endlessly quotable script. Sequels to such movies are often ill-advised, too concerned with fan service or topping the best moments of the previous entry to give audiences anything unique (Anchorman 2 comes to mind). But First Day of Camp worked by satirizing those sequel tropes and making each one all the more hilarious because of the advanced age of its cast of “teenagers.”
The first problem with Ten Years Later, which debuted on Netflix last Friday, is that it’s actually inspired by a throwaway joke in the original film, where the counselor friends pledge to all hang out at their beloved Camp Firewood 10 years on and see how they’ve grown up. Because there’s a more mundane reason for this show to exist, the ridiculousness—and humor—is immediately dialed back. More problematic, though, is the simple fact that teenagers are inherently foolish, amusing characters; as archetypes, 20-somethings are far less exciting.
Where Wet Hot American Summer and its prequel series mocked the bawdy sex comedies of the early ’80s, Ten Years Later is set in 1991, and so the creators Wain and Showalter are now aiming to parody the more sedate interpersonal dramedies of that era, such as The Big Chill, Singles, and St. Elmo’s Fire. Gone are dumb adolescent antics; replacing them are jokes about careerism, the fear of settling down, and the perils of being young parents.
It’s as staid as it sounds, and the show isn’t helped by the fact that many jokes referencing the movie have only grown more stale. So instead, Wain and Showalter (who both play multiple roles in the show) lump in a nutty subplot involving former president Ronald Reagan, current president George H.W. Bush, and a nuclear bomb, just to give the show a narrative spine. Showalter’s performance as Reagan, delivered behind heavy makeup, remains a blast, but even that is a rehash from First Day of Camp, where he first did it.
There’s also the return of the preppy rivals at Camp Tiger Claw (including Josh Charles, Kristen Wiig, and Rich Sommer), the washed-up rock god Eric (Chris Pine), and the dueling personalities of chefs Gene and Jonas (both played by Christopher Meloni), but the appearances are all surprises from the first series that, again, feel diminished. New additions to the cast like Mark Feuerstein (who plays another counselor, his presence explained through intentionally awkward inserts of him in archive footage) and Alyssa Milano (portraying a homicidal babysitter à la The Hand That Rocks the Cradle) are largely superfluous.
It’s still fun to see the stacked original cast of the show return for another go-round: Everyone, from Rudd to Poehler to Janeane Garofalo and Michael Ian Black, gets at least a couple of memorable scenes to play. The only missing cast member is mega-star Bradley Cooper, who showed up for First Day of Camp. He’s been replaced by Adam Scott, who is perfectly game but also ends up feeling unnecessary—it doesn’t help that Scott is part of the season’s worst storyline, the one involving Milano’s character.
Ten Years Later will appeal to fans who just want to see everyone get back together, only this time dressed in goofy ’90s outfits. But those viewers shouldn’t expect much else. For their part, Showalter and Wain remain among the funniest comic talents working today—Showalter directed The Big Sick this year, and Wain was one of the minds behind the incredible TV show Childrens Hospital. But it’s clear that, for all the goodwill generated by the original movie, the Wet Hot well has now officially run dry.
My first book was not what I dreamed it would be. I started writing professionally when I was in my late 20s, and while I worked my way up from a freelance music journalist to being an editor at The A.V. Club, the non-satirical wing of The Onion, I had one goal: to use all that experience as a springboard toward becoming an author. I had it all mapped out: After years of sacrifice and honing my craft, I would make my triumphant debut, with a book that might not become a bestseller but that’d be respected for its stunning originality and insight into the human condition.
Instead, my first book was The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. Yes, that Captain Jack Sparrow. As played by Johnny Depp. From The Pirates of the Caribbean movies. Based not on an ancient myth or literary archetype, but on a Disney ride. Writing a media tie-in, as works officially attached to other properties are known, wasn’t the start I had in mind. But as many professional authors will attest, the path to publication is rarely the expected one. And my experience writing about the famed Disney pirate—as well as my second media tie-in, a project for the Goosebumps movie—made me think twice about my preconceptions about work-for-hire books. Not to mention those who make them.
* * *
The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, which was published in 2011, came about in a circuitous way. The year before, I had left the The A.V. Club to freelance full-time and focus on finishing my first book. One day, a magazine editor of mine said he was taking a job at Quirk Books, the publisher infamous for its mashup novels, notably Seth Grahame-Smith’s Pride and Prejudice and Zombies. The editor asked, almost offhandedly, if I’d be interested in pitching him some book ideas.
I was. I threw everything I could against his wall; none of it stuck, but it seemed only a matter of time before we worked out a deal. Early on, I realized how lucky I was. Aspiring authors usually have to complete an entire novel draft or a lengthy nonfiction book proposal before approaching an editor—usually through an agent, which is another laborious step. Yet here I was, riffing with an editor who was helping me sculpt my crazy concepts into something suitable for his publisher.
Then, the editor sent me a proposal that changed my life: Would I want to write a tie-in book for On Stranger Tides, the upcoming fourth installment of Disney’s Pirates of the Caribbean franchise? The catch: The book had to be done in five weeks. Rather than adapting the film, I’d produce a tongue-in-cheek guide to piracy, a mix of real-life lore and the magical mythos of the movies.
I was a fan of pirates, of fantasy, and of the films themselves. The deadline would be brutal, but I was trying to make a leap into book-writing, and this was a book, period. I said yes. The fact that I was a near-starving writer, and the paycheck was several thousand dollars, didn’t hurt. So I signed the contract, pulled out my pirate-history books, cued up the first three Pirates of the Caribbean DVDs, and dove in.
Because The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook was written in the first person, I had to master the character’s salty, anachronistic turns of phase. Through them, I came to more deeply appreciate Jack. He may not be one of fiction’s most profound antiheroes, but he’s every inch the Jungian archetype of the trickster: the mischievous imp who disrupts social norms and often reason itself. I snuck that into the Handbook. I even went a little meta: “Nothing is less dignified,” I wrote, “than an otherwise lusty pirate with his or her nose stuck in a book. Needless to say, never brag about having read this one.” For my own amusement, I was also toying with the perception—sadly widespread—that writing media tie-ins is beneath the dignity of a respectable author.
* * *
Tie-in books are a huge and largely unheralded part of the publishing industry, sold everywhere from Barnes & Noble and Amazon to drugstores and theme-park gift shops. Before I wrote a media tie-in, I had no idea of the scale of the business. The Star Wars novel series began in 1976—the novelization of the first movie actually predated the 1977 cinematic release—and today boasts more than 125 millions copies in print. It’s been estimated that 1 to 2 percent of the audience of any given film, TV show, or game will buy a tie-in book related to that media property. If that audience is, say, 10 million strong, a tie-in book might sell 100,000 to 200,000 copies.
The writer Max Allan Collins did even better. His first tie-in novel, Dick Tracy—a novelization of the 1990 film—sold “a million copies or so,” he told me. Before that, he’d been a crime novelist and comic-book writer who also scripted the Dick Tracy newspaper strip. Collins was the obvious choice to write the tie-in, which sold spectacularly in the wake of film’s success.
Yet Collins realized that his novelization, despite being the biggest seller of his career by a mile, wouldn’t win him many accolades. “Because you are using someone else’s ideas, your contribution is obviously secondary,” Collins said. Since Dick Tracy, he’s novelized dozens of TV shows and movies including G.I. Joe, The X-Files, The Mummy, CSI: Miami, and Saving Private Ryan. “But the criticism comes from people who haven’t had to write one. It’s tough. Movies and novels are hugely different forms of narrative—the novel is interior, the film exterior.”
Collins co-founded the International Association of Media Tie-In Writers (IAMTW), for which he serves as president, to help promote the craft and its practitioners. Sometimes they’re established authors. Other times they’re newbies like me. There’s no system to scoring tie-in gigs: It’s a combination of luck, chops, and simply putting yourself out there. Some tie-in writers end up concentrating on that for their entire careers, making a name for themselves in that sphere. Many others write a couple tie-in books then move on as soon as the opportunity arises, hoping their name doesn’t become too closely associated with that line of work—like an up-and-coming actor trying to avoid being typecast as
an unsavory character.
I didn’t have that concern. When Quirk asked me if I wanted The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook to be published under a pseudonym, my answer came instantly: No way. If I poured myself into a book, no matter what it was, I wanted my name on it. I also grew up in an unstable household where every penny mattered. Turning up my nose at tie-in work, or disguising the fact that I’d done it, was a privilege I didn’t feel I had.
IAMTW’s vice-president, Lee Goldberg—himself a veteran of the trade—told me, “For decades, tie-in writers were looked upon as miserable, talentless hacks and their work just a step above porn. Which is strange, since the publishing industry aggressively seeks tie-in projects, and editors only hire writers they trust, who they know can deliver strong manuscripts under tight deadlines and often onerous creative restrictions.”
I came across a few of those restrictions while writing The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook. The book was to be heavily illustrated, and I had to write with that in mind—yet I had no real idea how the art would mesh with the text. I was required to work in a few details about On Stranger Tides, but I wasn’t given a script, just a vague list of some elements that would appear. On top of it all, Disney had to sign off on my interpretation of Jack each step of the way. Still, these challenges forced me to be more adaptable and think even more quickly on my feet—skills that, coincidentally, I was ascribing to Captain Jack.
I tackled another trickster for my second media tie-in: Slappy, the devilish ventriloquist’s dummy from R.L. Stine’s Goosebumps series. The book was titled Slappy’s Revenge: Twisted Tricks From the World’s Smartest Dummy, and it was published by Scholastic in conjunction with the big-screen adaptation of Goosebumps in 2015. I undertook the project with a lot more confidence. Not only had I earned my stripes with The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook, but Quirk had also published my own original novel, the political satire Taft 2012. I had a mere three weeks to write Slappy’s Revenge, but the pay was comparable to what I’d made on both the Handbook and Taft 2012.
As with Jack, I got to slip into the persona of Slappy. This time I was given the script for the film, for which I had to sign a nondisclosure agreement, as well as hundreds of stills to help me visualize the characters and creatures. Again, I wasn’t writing an adaptation; instead I had to create a bunch of Goosebumps-related riddles, parodies, and puns. As it turned out, Slappy’s favorite movie was Frying Nemo. (You may groan.) Though the assignment was fun, all these moving parts had to be linked by a narrative that resolved itself by the final page. My solution was to have Slappy smash the fourth wall and speak directly to the reader—the Sesame Street classic The Monster at the End of This Book was in the back of my mind—before handing the sharp-tongued dummy his comeuppance.
* * *
Unlike original books, tie-ins are work-for-hire gigs. That means they don’t usually pay royalties—so if the project ends up being wildly successful, the author doesn’t receive a share of each unit moved, only the money that was paid upfront. But that was fine with me. I didn’t create these megalithic properties; I was simply being allowed to play around in someone else’s world and get paid well for it. The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook and Slappy’s Revenge allowed me to dig myself out of the hole I’d gotten stuck in as a freelancer, where all my time and energy was spent on an exhausting treadmill of pitching and filing articles at a breakneck pace. They bought me the chance to breathe for a minute and finally work on my original, book-length projects.
The writer Wendy N. Wagner has had her own juggling act. Her first original novel, An Oath of Dogs, was published in July by Angry Robot, but she got her start writing media tie-ins. Skinwalkers and Starspawn were both set in the fantasy world of Pathfinder, the popular role-playing game. “I was a little worried about getting pigeonholed. Writing tie-ins is a fun challenge, but I really wanted to be able to create my own worlds and write by my own rules. I didn’t want people to think I was just this word-producing machine that spat out made-to-order adventures for the highest bidder,” she told me.
The income was worth it. “I got paid $5,000 for each of my novels,” Wagner said, “which in science fiction and fantasy is sort of a small but reasonable entry-level advance. Those books finished paying off my daughter’s braces, which was awesome. They were a good, reliable paycheck that always came on time, and I can’t say that about writing short fiction.”
She even found pride in helping to build the game’s fictional, collaborative world. “People read my books because they loved Pathfinder. They might not have even noticed who wrote those books. But there are fans out there playing their own Pathfinder games that use monsters that I helped envision,” Wagner said. “Wendy N. Wagner may not matter to those people, but what I created is a part of their weekend. It’s a part of their lives. And that’s pretty neato, you know?”
My own time in the media tie-in industry had at least one unexpected benefit: For the first time, my young niece Hazel took notice of what her Uncle Jason did for a living. She proudly showed my Pirates of the Caribbean and Goosebumps books to her friends, who were duly impressed. I even got to speak to her fourth-grade class about how to become a writer—which ended up being one of the most inspiring moments of my professional life. There’s nothing like having 9-year-olds earnestly ask, “What exactly is your self-editing process?” to reaffirm your faith in humanity.
Last year I spoke on a panel about tie-ins at the World Science Fiction Convention. One question kept popping up: How does one break into this peculiar wing of the business? The inquiry surprised me. The audience members weren’t necessarily fans of Slappy or Captain Jack Sparrow, as I’d expected. They were aspiring tie-in writers, as unglamorous as that may be in the literary world. Many of them already wrote fan-fiction; to them, tie-ins were a step up, not down.
The experience made me reconsider my own work. Yes, I started taking tie-in jobs to make a buck, to buy myself time to write my own books. But by the time I started working on my second tie-in project, I had already realized how much creativity can go into even the most commercially driven writing. I had jokingly told the readers of The Captain Jack Sparrow Handbook not to brag about having read it. Finally, though, I’d learned that maybe it was okay—at least once in a while— to brag about having written it.
This post contains spoilers through the most recent episode of Game of Thrones, “The Spoils of War.”
It’s no secret that dragons have a deeper meaning on Game of Thrones. George R.R. Martin has specifically referred to them as “the nuclear deterrent.” Timothy Westmyer, a former research and program assistant at George Washington University, has argued in the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists that dragons are “living, fire-breathing metaphors for nuclear weapons,” and that the series is deliberate in using dragons as a warning about the “inherent dangers” and the responsibility that comes with possessing and wielding such power.
But in the most recent episode of the HBO show, “The Spoils of War,” Game of Thrones offered its most explicit portrayal yet of the carnage dragons can cause. In the episode’s climactic final sequence, Daenerys accompanied the Dothraki in a two-pronged attack on the Lannister and Tarly armies, flying Drogon over the troops and incinerating their supplies (and most of their soldiers). The resulting damage was graphic, and instantaneous. Some men were reduced to ashes in seconds, while others burned to death more slowly, screaming in agony. One soldier writhed in pain while the skin seemed to peel off his face. Both Jaime and Tyrion Lannister, watching from different vantage points, were visibly horrified by the spectacle.
Game of Thrones: Queen of the Ashes
Which is the whole point. Daenerys has weapons that should, by rights, make her the most powerful person in the Seven Kingdoms. But she’s hampered, ironically, by the fact that her dragons are so exponentially more dangerous than any other force on the show. (Wildfire, which both Tyrion and Cersei have deployed in the past, and which has similarly gruesome results, is notoriously unstable and hard to control. It’s been likened in the past to napalm, which the U.S. infamously deployed in the Vietnam War, and which was outlawed by the United Nations in 1980.)
Dragons, like nukes, have the capacity to inflict maximum casualties with minimal effort—something President Harry Truman described as “a rain of ruin from the air, the like of which has never been seen on this earth.” But the cost of such weapons is that they’re so effective they can almost never be used. As Jon Snow said to Dany before she set off with Drogon, she’s gathered her armies by wielding compassion, not brute force. If she uses her dragons “to melt castles and burn cities,” she’s no different from any other power-hungry zealot, and she sacrifices the ethical compass—the soft power—that’s gotten her this far.
That doesn’t mean she’s afraid to deploy them in battle, as was proved in “The Spoils of War.” And if Jaime survives, his account of witnessing dragons in action will bolster how seriously the Lannisters take Daenerys as an enemy. But there’s another topical aspect to the catch-22 of her nuclear option. Possessing such powerful weapons only works as a deterrent to war if your enemies are similarly appalled by the cost of using them, and Cersei in particular seems unlikely to shed tears for civilians. As Westmyer writes,
Optimists who welcome nuclear weapons as a stabilizing influence insist that by their very nature, these arms cause rational leaders of stable regimes to maintain strict control over their state’s arsenals and moderate their behavior—or risk retaliation. That prompts the question: What happens when nuclear weapons are in the hands of irrational leaders, less than stable countries, or non-state actors? Fortunately for Westeros, its “Mad King” had no dragons at his disposal. “Burn them all,” he snarled while ordering his city be set ablaze rather than surrender—showing how retaliatory threats mean little to someone bent on suicidal violence.
In other words, both dragons and nuclear weapons offer the ability to inflict near-total obliteration, and as such they become weapons that are extremely hard to wield. Mark Bowden, in his July/August Atlantic cover story on North Korea, wrote that “there are no good options” when you’re dealing with the threat of nuclear warfare. Daenerys, like the United States, has the ability to destroy everything and everyone that stands between her and power, but if her ultimate goal is peace, burning down the Seven Kingdoms isn’t an ideal tactic.
As Martin said in 2011, the Dragon Queen is the only person in Westeros who has the nuclear option at her disposal, but that doesn’t make her omnipotent. “Power is more subtle than that,” he explained. “You can have the power to destroy, but it doesn’t give you the power to reform, or improve, or build.” To co-opt the title of my colleagues’ Game of Thrones roundtable this week, what’s the upside in being queen of the ashes?
Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we’ll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Lenika Cruz: Is your heart still pounding? Even if you had managed to keep yourself spoiler-free by avoiding the pesky headlines and articles about last week’s HBO leak, you may have sensed from the dramatic, martial tone of the “previously on” that this episode, “The Spoils of War,” was going to a be a doozy. After losing her first two battles—and her three principal Westerosi allies—Daenerys Targaryen finally got to do things the Mother of Dragons way: by saddling up on Drogon, rallying the Dothraki, and ambushing the Lannister and Tarly armies after their victory at Highgarden. Following the Crown’s successful campaign last week, the Tyrell gold is now secure inside King’s Landing, allowing the Lannisters to (finally) live up to their unofficial house words and repay their debt to the Iron Bank. But Dany, too, made good on her own house’s promise in the closing minutes of the episode, delivering a brutal helping of “Fire and Blood” in the first truly large-scale battle of the season so far.
Her scorched-earth campaign was a visceral reminder of the kind of internal conflict viewers might continue to face as storylines converge and characters’ loyalties place them on opposite sides. “Yeahhh!!!” I couldn’t help but cheer when I heard the hoofbeats and the frantic whooping of the Dothraki, as Cersei’s soldiers prepared, at last, to see the foreign horde they’d heard so much about. “Woooo!!!” I yelled, as Drogon fire-breathed all over the Lannister/Tarly troops—but only after I was certain Bronn and Jaime were on the other side of the battlefield. “Garggnnbugghhh!!” I gurgled when Drogon and Dany charged at Bronn and his scorpion, and then when Jaime charged at them with his spear.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men
The episode’s director, Matt Shakman, did a fantastic job with this sequence, concocting a vision of senseless slaughter roughly as hellish as the one from last year’s “Battle of the Bastards,” while adding in some gruesome new details. The men burning alive inside their armor, the columns of ash that were once soldiers crumbling in the wind, the thick choke of dark gray smoke whipping up from the flames, horses getting their (ugh) legs chopped off—all of it was far more vivid than the Lannister/Euron Greyjoy wins of previous weeks. And it ended with the fates of two fan favorites—Jaime and Drogon—in question (though I can’t imagine we’ve said goodbye to either already).
Dany, it seems, got the push she needed to commit to this plan from her new friend-prisoner-burgeoning love interest-ally-enemy-nephew-adviser Jon Snow. “The people who follow you know that you made something impossible happen,” he told her. “Maybe that helps them believe that you can make other impossible things happen.” (Cut to Davos, who made the “Hmmm, Jon, you sure you’re talking about Daenerys?” face the rest of us were probably making.) I’m relieved we don’t have to sit through hours of Dany questioning Jon’s character and motives, but she’s still begun to trust him surprisingly quickly, already asking him for strategy advice and disappearing into caves with him (though, she may not have been totally convinced Jon didn’t just do those drawings himself). But Jon, of course, had a point—one the show keeps trying to underscore by tossing in scenes like the one with Missandei, reminding us that for all of Dany’s obsession with knee-bending, she’s still a leader whose followers stand by her side more out of love and choice than duty or because of her birthright.
Dany’s leadership model is the kind you could imagine someone like Sansa—who’s cunning, who’s endured so much, who’s keen to do the actual work of ruling—emulating if given the chance. It was while Sansa was doing this work that Arya came home, after being away from Winterfell longer than all her siblings. I’m still not tired of these Stark reunions, but credit to the show for playing around with the emotional beats and making Arya’s return feel distinct from the previous ones. I can’t overstate how rewarding it was to see Arya and Sansa in the same room together again, even if their reconnection was less overtly sentimental than the Jon-Sansa one in last year’s “Home.” (Their wonderful exchange: “It’s a long story. I imagine yours is, too.” “Yes, not a very pleasant one.” “Mine neither. But our stories aren’t over yet.” “No, they’re not.”) I’m a little nervous about three living Starks being back together again, but for now I’ll revel in the fact that we got a brilliant fight scene between Arya and Brienne that was about as effective a pitch for a new spinoff (The Lady of Tarth and No One?) as you could hope for.
In the background, of course, doing everything but literally twirling his mustache and cackling maniacally, is the chaos-loving, ladder-climbing Littlefinger. This episode resurfaced one of the big remaining whodunnits from the show’s first season—who hired an assassin to kill a comatose Bran with a Valyrian steel dagger and why?—but I’ll admit not being able to fully see the contours of Petyr Baelish’s plan quite yet. All I can think is that Bran, who has now fully justified to me his strange behavior from last week, must know more about what Littlefinger’s going to do and what he has already done, even if he’s not in the position to change what’s destined to happen. Megan and Spencer, what do you think Littlefinger is up to? How did the big battle play out for you? And, crucially, if Jaime’s still alive, will he ever get Rickard—I mean Rickon—I mean, Dickon’s name right?
Megan Garber: Littlefinger! Ugh, Littlefinger. Mostly I think he is up to weirding me out in a way that I cannot adequately articulate even though I am a professional writer … but I’m with you, Lenika, beyond that I really don’t know—as I have never quite known—what his endgame is. And I actually think one of the canniest decisions the show’s producers have made was to make Littlefinger, in particular, such a mystery: to emphasize his inscrutability, to give him motivations that are so very unclear and mannerisms that are at once so proper and so decidedly improper. (Even his hair refuses to be made sense of: While the sides are middle-aged gray, the top hints that a Westerosi Rite-Aid managed to smuggle in some boxes of Just for Men®.) But I also think that Baelish as such a walking contradiction is, at least as far as the narrative stuff goes, extremely effective: In addition to being an agent of chaos, he’s also an agent of creepiness ... and he spreads the creepy all around, infusing it into every scene he’s in. He is unsettling, in every sense. He’s destabilizing. He’s like a human miasma. An excessively polite miasma.
So, yeah, let’s move on to something much more pleasant than Littlefinger: this episode’s fiery, gory battle. Traditionally, there’s been something about such a clash that has seemed to bring out Game of Thrones’s most cinematic impulses: the interpersonal feuds, and the assorted human pettinesses, and the philosophical differences about the purpose of power, all distilled down to a matter of moments, all resolved with swords and arrows and blood. The battle scenes, I have to admit, have in recent seasons gotten a little special effects-happy for my taste—I half-expected Jason Bourne to emerge at triple speed from behind a turret or something during the taking of Casterly Rock—but I thought this battle was effective particularly in its restraint: It had an intimacy to it, even in its scale. It was horrifying, in new ways. It managed to feel epic and visceral at the same time.
Which is also to say that I was totally with you, Lenika, on the “Garggnnbugghhh!!” And one of the things that drew me in, in particular, was the way the scenes—and the cameras that give them life—played with point of view: At one moment, we’re soaring with Dany on Drogon’s back, elevated over the chaos and carnage of the battle below. And the next we’re with Bronn, on the ground, in the midst of the tumult. And, actually, we’re more than just with him. Bronn, during the battle, was often shot from just below—the camera seemed to hover at the height of his waist—which emphasized this difference of perspective, and also destabilized the scene as it played out, and also brought an exceptionally literal spin to the idea of “ground truth.”
The cinematography here reminded me, in a strange (but maybe sort of fitting?) way, of Dunkirk—not just the dead-men-walking ideas at play in the martial elements of the skirmish, but also in the way the action was divided: Air as one battlefield—as one domain—and Land as another. And that division, the one made so clear with land-Bronn and air-Dany, was especially appropriate given the stakes of the battle. This wasn’t, after all, just a clash of militaries; it was a clash of philosophies. It was, very broadly, the Lannisters and their gold versus the Targaryen and her principles. It wasn’t right versus wrong—Game of Thrones is much more complicated than that—but it was definitely, in ways both literal and more figurative, “high” versus “low.”
And so is the episode itself. “The Spoils of War,” like Game of Thrones overall, pays a lot of attention to vision, and to ideas of perspective more broadly. (“You came home,” Bran reminds Arya, just after the two have been reunited—“I saw you at the crossroads.” She is taken aback. “You saw me?” she asks. “I see quite a lot now,” he replies.) There are Jon and Davos, descending the massive, stone staircase at Dragonstone—their brief scene shot from behind, at a sweeping distance, conveying both their elevation and their descent. There are Sansa and Littlefinger, gazing down at Arya and Brienne as the two fight. The girl finally bests the woman, and the scene concludes with a shot from Brienne’s point of view: Brienne and, with her, the viewer, is looking down at Arya. Arya is looking back at her, triumphant. She is looking triumphantly, by extension, at us.
And that’s more than a matter, I think, of clever camerawork. The emphasis on perspective in “The Spoils of War” also brings to the fore one of the longest-running interests of Game of Thrones: identity. What makes someone who they are. What changes a person into someone else. Arya “A Girl Has No Name” Stark, Theon “Reek” Greyjoy, Jon “But Who Is His Mother Really” Snow, Melisandre “The Red Woman” Magiclady, Tyrion “of House Lannister but Also Totally Not of House Lannister” Lannister. Grey Worm, who chooses the name that had been assigned to him. Oh, and also Daenerys “The First of Her Name, the Unburnt, Queen of Meereen, Queen of the Andals and the Rhoynar and the First Men, Khaleesi of the Great Grass Sea, Breaker of Chains, and Mother of Dragons” Targaryen.
Do names matter? Do titles? To what extent do the world’s expectations of someone shape the person that someone becomes? To what extent can experience—can other people—do that shaping? Is Theon Greyjoy, after everything, still Theon Greyjoy? Is he Reek? Is he anything, anymore? Those types of questions emerged with a renewed sense of urgency in “The Spoils of War.” Bran informs Meera that “I’m not Bran—not anymore.” Davos, attempting to correct Missandei’s reference to “Lord Snow,” insists that he isn’t a lord. But: “King Snow?” Davos asks. “Isn’t it?” He pauses. “No, that doesn’t sound right. King Jon?” Arya, the prodigal daughter, raises her eyebrow when a distinctly unimpressed Winterfellian guard informs her that “Arya Stark is dead.” (He adds: “Best fuck off.”) But then! Like you suggested, Lenika, when Arya is reunited, after so long, with Sansa, the show hints that she might be becoming herself again. “Finally, a girl is no one,” Jaqen H’ghar had told her, last season. “A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell,” she had corrected him. As she laughs with Sansa, that finally begins to feel true.
But the biggest moment, I thought, in a show that loves nothing better than revealing a character to be something other than what they seem, belonged to Bronn. Bronn starts “The Spoils of War” seeming to be interested in those spoils in the most literal way possible (“We pay our debts,” Jaime insists to him; “Right—just not to me,” Bronn complains). In battle, however, he proves himself to be much more principled—or at least much more self-sacrificing—than he had allowed himself to suggest before. Bronn, the … hero? Bronn, the savior? The scene in which the sellsword sees a fallen bag of gold, glinting amid all the blood and mud and chaos, and then must choose between the money and the valor was a taaaaad on the nose, I thought—a little too Walter Donovan in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade—but, still, it made its point: Bronn, given a choice between selfishness and selflessness, ended up choosing … wisely. At least at this moment. At least for now.
Spencer Kornhaber: The Dunkirk reference you used, Megan, is weirdly fitting—this battle was defined by asymmetrical firepower and total terror, rather than clichés of bravery. But real-world comparisons only get you so far here. In HBO’s after-the-episode segment, D.B. Weiss pointed out that the dragons factor meant the writers couldn’t quite draw from military history in the way that they normally do when crafting battles. Instead they imagined someone bringing an F16 to the Middle Ages. They didn’t just brainstorm the practical implications of napalming soldiers—they nailed the psychological disorientation that would have met a new and supernatural weapon of war.
That disorientation was certainly apparent in Jaime Lannister. One of the most famed fighters and military commanders in all of the land sat dumbstruck for much of the conflict, craning his neck and knotting his eyebrows and barking some obvious orders and not doing much else. Why didn’t he think to get someone behind the anti-dragon weaponry until well after Drogon arrived? My first, and possibly correct, impulse was to chalk the delay up as a schlocky move on the show’s part to ratchet up drama. But then again, it’s believable Jaime might be mentally paralyzed in the circumstances—how would you react to a dragon?
Surely adding to Jaime’s inner turmoil was a sense of déjà vu as a Targaryen torched human flesh before his eyes. Jaime’s life, after all, was cleaved by his decision to kill Daenerys’s father rather than let him incinerate House Lannister and the people of King’s Landing. The way he eventually moved from horrified spectator to decisive actor by charging at Dany made me think of his bathhouse testimony to Brienne in Season 3. To be sure, riding at Daenerys isn’t oathbreaking—it’s classic, if foolhardy, battlefield heroism. But the face-off was still a callback, a reminder of Jaime’s biography and Daenerys’s tainted parentage.
Never one to pass up a twist, Thrones decided to end the episode with Jaime’s life endangered not by fire but by water, and what had seemed like a deus-ex-machina save may actually have consigned him to the awful fate of drowning within his armor. But I’d bet on someone pulling from the depths, alive, in next week’s episode. There’s just so much juicy narrative potential still to be activated with Jaime—he’s still got to deliver Olenna’s confession about Joffrey to Cersei, for example. Then again, viewers know well that seemingly essential characters can be snuffed out at any time. If this is the end of Jaime’s arc, his history with the Targaryens would give it a mild sense of poetry.
So would the idea of him being dragged down by his golden hand. Much of the rest of the episode centered around characters negotiating—and rejecting—the system of lordly hierarchy that has defined Westeros for ages. Megan, you listed many of the examples of this in your discussion of Thrones’s interest in character change. We also has such dualities as Sansa insisting on being called Lady Stark as Brienne waved away such a title, Bronn playing up his working-class background when razzing the nervous noble Dickon Tarly, and Jon explaining his last name to Missandei, who emphasized that she followed Daenerys not because of heritage but because of merit.
Jon’s suspiciously convenient Powerpoint presentation in the Dragonstone caves crystalized what the show’s been getting at for a while now with the lords-and-ladies theme: A happy ending for Westeros might be one that sees society reverting to a time before Lannisters, Starks, and Targaryens existed, ruled by something other than bloodline. Haltingly, things do seem to be moving in that direction. With Cersei now childless, the Lannister line has been broken. Tyrion has turned against his own clan. And in Winterfell, Bran and Arya have basically mutated into something post-Stark—and very socially awkward.
The scene of Arya trying to convince the northern guards of her identity was a fun way to telegraph how much she and her home have transformed. Plus, given how much Thrones now yada-yadas small details on the way to big battles, I’m glad it still makes room for logistical questions such as “what’s the immigration procedure at the Winterfell gates?” Less fun: Arya’s meet-up with Sansa, which was so stilted and cold as to beggar belief. I get that they’ve changed, I get that they may not know how to talk to each other, but still, no amount of world-weariness would explain why Sansa didn’t open with “where the hell have you been?” The ever-more-insufferable Bran at least has a supernatural excuse for treating Meera like a hired porter he’s decided to stop paying. Arya may be a supreme assassin, but she’s still Sansa’s little sister, and hence was in dire need of a noogie in that crypt scene.
Fascinating as it is to see the Starks reuniting, the most pressing questions about family identity regard a Targaryen. Sometimes, Dany presents herself as a ideologically motivated conqueror for justice; other times, she invokes centuries of lineage for her claim. It’s inescapable that heritage really does matter in this world—she, after all, has her dragons because of who she is. But her pitch is in using that advantage for a higher purpose. Dany gives people hope that she can  “build a world that’s different from the shit one they’ve always known,” Jon says. But he warns, if she seeks to “burn castles and melt cities, you’re not different. You’re just more of the same.” Of course, to someone like Jaime Lannister, the difference between melting cities and melting soldiers is immaterial. Fire is fire—it needs to be extinguished.
When he set out to make Icarus, the playwright and actor Bryan Fogel had one goal: to examine how easy it is to get away with doping in professional sport. An enthusiastic amateur cyclist, he was disturbed by the fact that someone like Lance Armstrong could cheat for so many years and never fail a single drug test. “Originally,” he explains in the film, “the idea I had was to prove the system in place to test athletes was bullshit.”
What actually happened was a bit like tugging on an errant thread and having the entire clothing industry unravel right on top of you. Fogel, while conducting a human guinea-pig experiment in which he took performance-enhancing drugs to prepare for a race, was connected with a Russian doctor who ended up blowing the whistle on a state-sponsored doping scheme that had been ongoing in Russia for decades. Icarus, initially intended as a Super Size Me–style effort to poke holes in the anti-doping system, ended up capturing the maelstrom of one of the biggest scandals in sporting history, while former anti-doping officials were dying under mysterious circumstances and the IOC was pondering whether Russia should be banned outright from the 2016 Rio Olympics.
Did Hulk Hogan Neuter the First Amendment?
It’s fair, then, to call Icarus a coup for a first-time documentarian, the product of both dumb luck and a strange rapport between Fogel and Dr. Grigory Rodchenkov, who is the director of Moscow’s anti-doping center when Fogel first meets him via Skype in 2014. The first 40 minutes of the film—released on Netflix on Friday—focus on Fogel’s efforts to game the system while competing in the Haute Route, an annual event in that Alps that he describes as “the single hardest amateur bike race in the world.” The first time he competed, drug-free, he came in 14th out of 440. This time he wants to do better, using the race to prove that if “I could get away with it, that would mean that pretty much any athlete could do it and get away with it.”
An anti-doping scientist at UCLA introduces Fogel to Rodchenkov, an instantly endearing and offbeat character who croons at Fogel’s dog over Skype and has a strangely encyclopedic grasp of doping itself—what Fogel should take, and how he’ll feel as he starts his new regime. It  involves prescription steroids and hormones issued by an anti-aging doctor, and fairly graphic footage of Fogel injecting himself daily. Rodchenkov is a cheerfully game accomplice, and at some point Fogel starts to wonder—why is a lab director in charge of anti-doping efforts for the Sochi Olympics showing a relative stranger how to take performance-enhancing drugs and get away with it?
The answer comes in November 2015, when Rodchenkov is heavily implicated in a report by the World Anti-Doping Agency that ties him to state-sponsored doping efforts in Russia. “Bryan, it’s a disaster, they’re killing people, cutting heads,” he tells Fogel over Skype. And just like that, the movie switches course, following Rodchenkov’s efforts to travel to the United States and blow the whistle on his involvement in what the movie paints as staggering, systemic corruption.
Rodchenkov is a dream subject—eccentric, garrulous, frequently shirtless, and immensely charming—and the movie’s most obvious flaw is that it fails to fully parse his motivations. Is he sacrificing his life in Russia and his family left back home to bravely expose a system he’s worked within his whole life? (In one scene, offhand, he tells Fogel his mother used to inject him with stanozolol when he was a professional runner.) Or, after being named and shamed so publicly by WADA, is he simply out of options? Fogel uses George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four as a framing device to argue that it’s the former—Rodchenkov recalls reading the book in his 30s after it was no longer banned in Russia, and being struck by its scenes of government-sanctioned destruction of truth.
But Fogel, too, is an intriguing character in his own film, who says he wants to cheat to highlight cheating itself, but who clearly has some of the professional athlete’s compulsion to win at all costs. And as Rodchenkov wrangles the FBI, the Russian FSB, and the media, Fogel doesn’t just capture the action. He becomes Rodchenkov’s advocate and defender, meeting with lawyers, finding him housing, and enabling the Russian’s efforts to disperse the significant evidence he’s gathered.
The scale of the cheating Rodchenkov helps expose is clearest when Fogel meets with scientists and officials at WADA in 2016, and explains that they have spreadsheets detailing every athlete on the state-mandated doping protocol at the London Olympics, and how many of them were implicated. The faces around the table are dumbstruck: a perfect symphony of horror, anger, and glum acceptance. “And he’s sorry? Grigory?” one of the WADA officials asks. It’s a question that neither Fogel nor Icarus really ever answers. The larger point, they emphasize, is that none of this would have ever come to light without him.
My Buddy
Patti Smith | The New Yorker
“Sam [Shepard] liked being on the move. He’d throw a fishing rod or an old acoustic guitar in the back seat of his truck, maybe take a dog, but for sure a notebook, and a pen, and a pile of books. He liked packing up and leaving just like that, going west. He liked getting a role that would take him somewhere he really didn’t want to be, but where he would wind up taking in its strangeness; lonely fodder for future work.”
Confederate: Will a Grassroots Movement Sink the Controversial HBO Series?
Jake Nevins | The Guardian
“Perhaps, for HBO, it is [a risk worth taking], if only because even a version of Confederate that confirms our worst suspicions couldn’t sink TV’s most formidable cash cow. … The team behind Confederate seems to be cautiously optimistic that the rewards and provocations of alt-history fiction—its ability to jolt us into consciousness, to recognize parallels between the past and present and force audiences to reckon with them—outweigh the risks.”
Remembering Editor Judith Jones
Ellen O’Connell Whittet | Literary Hub
“While those familiar with 20th century literature may have heard of Maxwell Perkins, editor to Thomas Wolfe, Ernest Hemingway, and F. Scott Fitzgerald (or seen the 2016 film Genius about his editing), Jones recognized a new type of genius, the diamonds in the rough, often women, who had not found editors who took their kinds of work seriously.”
Angelina Jolie and German Philosophy: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Nicest Evil Girl in the World
Allison P. Davis | The Cut
“In person, [Aubrey] Plaza is less deadpan, less caustic, less sarcastic, maybe even goofier, than the onscreen persona that made her famous. Still, she tells me, she’s well aware that I expected her to be a total jerk during tennis. It happens to her all the time, even now, at 33, almost a decade after she first played April.”
What’s So Hard About Casting Indian Actors in Indian Roles?
Kevin Noble Maillard | The New York Times
“‘Redface,’ the manufacturing of ersatz images of Native American identity, has long been a problem in Hollywood, and there’s a well-documented history of hiring non-Indians for Indian roles. But [Taylor] Sheridan’s solution is thorny, too. When vetting is a challenge even for tribes, which can become embroiled in controversies over identity, how can casting directors do it?”
Why Don’t Dystopias Know How to Talk About Race?
Angelica Jade Bastién | Vulture
“Most dystopian films end up ignoring the thorny politics of entrenched systems of oppression in favor of signaling out one lead character who gloriously resists and somehow survives—a conservative narrative that suggests oppression can be overcome if people just try hard enough. There is something disturbing about filmmakers portraying white characters as both those most harmed by oppression and the sole heroes able to dismantle it.”
How Charlize Theron Became the Greatest Action Star in the World
Kevin Fallon | The Daily Beast
“The truth is that Lorraine—and Charlize’s performance—stands on its own, a one-two knockout following her turn in Mad Max: Fury Road that cements her as the greatest action hero currently working in film. She boasts the athleticism, depth, magnetism, and wanton disregard for convention that intensifies her appeal, and the lack of which makes so many other action stars so bland.”
The Complicated Life and Death of Hideki Irabu
Ben Reiter | Sports Illustrated 
“[George] Steinbrenner, though, didn’t pay him $12 million for just above average, nor did [Rudy] Giuliani hand him a crystal apple for just above average, nor did Yankees fans applaud him for just above average. As it turned out, there were many things about the failed ace that none of them grasped.”
Don’t Miss
The Lost Cause Rides Again—Ta-Nehisi Coates explains that HBO’s Confederate takes as its premise an ugly truth that black Americans are forced to live every day.
Film
Why The Emoji Movie Fails—Megan Garber posits that the new book The Emoji Code celebrates the democratic ambiguity of pictographs, while the movie’s conceit stifles it.
The Joy of The Incredible Jessica James—Sophie Gilbert thinks James C. Strouse’s movie is a predictable romantic comedy elevated by an incandescent star.
How Logan Lucky Can Bring Back the Mid-Budget Movie—David Sims believes Steven Soderbergh’s new crime caper, being released and marketed without the help of big studios, could change the way Hollywood works.
The Lost Boys’ Subtly Radical Vision of Family—Brandon Tensley revisits the 1987 vampire horror-comedy that debuted at a time when America was preoccupied with the evolution of traditional kinship bonds.
Menashe Is a Moving Drama of Hasidic Life—David Sims appreciates Joshua Weinstein’s debut fiction film as a powerful, if small-scoped, depiction of a father and son living in a closed society.
The Disappointments of Detroit—Christopher Orr regrets that despite moments of emotional power, Kathryn Bigelow’s film offers a narrow and unnuanced portrait of the city’s 1967 riots.
TV
Did 13 Reasons Why Spark a Suicide Contagion Effect?—Sophie Gilbert looks at a new study that reveals internet searches for suicide skyrocketed in the wake of the show’s release.
Ava DuVernay on Queen Sugar and Her Hollywood Journey—Adrienne Green talks to the director about the show’s midseason finale, the importance of telling black stories, and her secret to navigating the film and TV industry.
Lyanna Mormont and the Slogan Feminism of Game of Thrones—Megan Garber analyzes the show’s complicated relationship with the women in its world and how it’s trying to simplify things heading into its conclusion.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men—Lenika Cruz, David Sims, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss the third episode of the seventh season.
Game of Thrones: That Girl Was Poison—Megan Garber emphasizes that in a show deeply concerned with the morality of its killings, toxic potions have been weapons of last resort.
The Bachelorette and the Empty Redemptions of Reality TV—Megan Garber watches the show’s The Men Tell All special, which treated the confrontation of Lee Garrett for his racist tweets as a productive conversation but fell short of its intended goals.
Books
What We’re Reading This Summer—The Atlantic’s editors and writers recommend a collection of books.
What We Lose: A Striking Novel About Filial Grief—Amy Weiss-Meyer reviews Zinzi Clemmons’s debut, which tangles with familiar questions but uses a propulsive experimentalism in lieu of linear narrative.
Why Men Pretend to Be Women to Sell Thrillers—Sophie Gilbert examines how female writers have come to dominate crime fiction.
Theater
Remembering Sam Shepard—David Sims eulogizes the legendary American playwright, novelist, screenwriter, and actor, who died at the age of 73.
HBO’s prospective series Confederate will offer an alternative history of post-Civil War America. It will ask the question, according to co-creator David Benioff,  “What would the world have looked like … if the South had won?” A swirl of virtual protests and op-eds have greeted this proposed premise. In response, HBO has expressed “great respect” for its critics but also said it hopes that they will “reserve judgment until there is something to see.”
This request sounds sensible at first pass. Should one not “reserve judgment” of a thing until after it has been seen? But HBO does not actually want the public to reserve judgment so much as it wants the public to make a positive judgment. A major entertainment company does not announce a big new show in hopes of garnering dispassionate nods of acknowledgement. HBO executives themselves judged Confederate before they’d seen it—they had to, as no television script actually exists. HBO hoped to communicate that approval to its audience through the announcement. And had that communication been successful, had Confederate been greeted with rapturous anticipation, it is hard to imagine the network asking its audience to tamp down and wait.
The Case for Reparations: An Intellectual Autopsy
HBO’s motives aside, the plea to wait supposes that a problem of conception can be fixed in execution. We do not need to wait to observe that this supposition is, at best, dicey. For over a century, Hollywood has churned out well-executed, slickly produced epics which advanced the Lost Cause myth of the Civil War. These are true “alternative histories,” built on “alternative facts,” assembled to depict the Confederacy as a wonderland of virtuous damsels and gallant knights, instead of the sprawling kleptocratic police state it actually was. From last century’s The Birth of a Nation to this century’s Gods and Generals, Hollywood has likely done more than any other American institution to obstruct a truthful apprehension of the Civil War, and thus modern America’s very origins. So one need not wait to observe that any foray by HBO into the Civil War must be met with a spirit of pointed inquiry and a withholding of all benefit of the doubt.
Skepticism must be the order of the day. So that when Benioff asks “what would the world have looked like … if the South had won,” we should not hesitate to ask what Benioff means by “the South.” He obviously does not mean the minority of  white Southern unionists, who did win. And he does not mean those four million enslaved blacks, whom the Civil War ultimately emancipated, yet whose victory was tainted. Comprising 40 percent of the Confederacy’s population, this was the South’s indispensable laboring class, its chief resource, its chief source of wealth, and the sole reason why a Confederacy existed in the first place. But they are not the subject of Benioff’s inquiry, because he is not so much asking about “the South” winning, so much as he is asking about “the white South” winning.
The distinction matters. For while the Confederacy, as a political entity, was certainly defeated, and chattel slavery outlawed, the racist hierarchy which Lee and Davis sought to erect, lives on. It had to. The terms of the white South’s defeat were gentle. Having inaugurated a war which killed more Americans than all other American wars combined, the Confederacy’s leaders were back in the country’s political leadership within a decade. Within two, they had effectively retaken control of the South.
Knowing this, we do not have to wait to point out that comparisons between Confederate and The Man in the High Castle are fatuous. Nazi Germany was also defeated. But while its surviving leadership was put on trial before the world, not one author of the Confederacy was convicted of treason. Nazi Foreign Minister Joachim von Ribbentrop was hanged at Nuremberg. Confederate General John B. Gordon became a senator. Germany has spent the decades since World War II in national penance for Nazi crimes. America spent the decades after the Civil War transforming Confederate crimes into virtues. It is illegal to fly the Nazi flag in Germany. The Confederate flag is enmeshed in the state flag of Mississippi.
The symbols point to something Confederate’s creators don’t seem to understand—the war is over for them, not for us. At this very hour, black people all across the South are still fighting the battle which they joined during Reconstruction—securing equal access to the ballot—and resisting a president whose resemblance to Andrew Johnson is uncanny. Confederate is the kind of provocative thought experiment that can be engaged in when someone else’s lived reality really is fantasy to you, when your grandmother is not in danger of losing her vote, when the terrorist attack on Charleston evokes honest sympathy, but inspires no direct fear. And so we need not wait to note that Confederate’s interest in Civil War history is biased, that it is premised on a simplistic view of white Southern defeat, instead of the more complicated morass we have all around us.
And one need not wait to ask if Benioff and D.B. Weiss are, at any rate, the candidates to help lead us out of that morass or deepen it. A body of work exists in the form of their hit show Game of Thrones. We do not have to wait to note the persistent criticism of that show is its depiction of rape. Rape—generational rape, mass rape—is central to the story of enslavement. For 250 years the bodies of enslaved black women were regarded as property, to be put to whatever use—carnal and otherwise—that their enslavers saw fit. Why HBO believes that this duo, given their past work, is the best team to revisit that experience is a question one should not wait to ask.
And all this must be added to a basic artistic critique—Confederate is a shockingly unoriginal idea, especially for the allegedly avant garde HBO. “What if the white South had won?” may well be the most trod-upon terrain in the field of American alternative history. There are novels about it, comic books about it, games about it, and a mockumentary about it. It’s been barely a year since Ben Winters published Underground Airlines.
Storytellers have the right to answer any question they choose. But we do not need to wait to examine all the questions that are not being chosen: What if John Brown had succeeded? What if the Haitian Revolution had spread to the rest of the Americas? What if black soldiers had been enlisted at the onset of the Civil War? What if Native Americans had halted the advance of whites at the Mississippi? And we need not wait to note that more interesting than asking what the world would be like if the white South had won is asking why so many white people are enthralled with a world where the dreams of Harriet Tubman were destroyed by the ambitions of Robert E. Lee.
The problem of Confederate can’t be redeemed by production values, crisp writing, or even complicated characters. That is not because its conceivers are personally racist, or seek to create a show that endorses slavery. Far from it, I suspect. Indeed, the creators have said that their hope is to use science fiction to “show us how this history is still with us in a way no strictly realistic drama ever could.” And that really is the problem. African Americans do not need science-fiction, or really any fiction, to tell them that that “history is still with us.” It’s right outside our door. It’s in our politics. It’s on our networks. And Confederate is not immune. The show’s very operating premise, the fact that it roots itself in a long white tradition of imagining away emancipation, leaves one wondering how “lost” the Lost Cause really was.
It’s good that the show-runners have brought on two noted and talented black writers—Nichelle Tramble Spellman and Malcolm Spellman. But one wonders: If black writers, in general, were to have HBO’s resources and support to create an alternative world, would they choose the world dreamed up by the progenitors of the Ku Klux Klan? Or would they address themselves to other less trod areas of Civil War history in the desire to say something new, in the desire to not, yet again, produce a richly imagined and visually beguiling lie?
We have been living with the lie for so long. And we cannot fix the lie by asking “What if the white South won?” and waiting for an answer, because the lie is not in the answer, but in the question itself.
In the early morning hours of Sunday, July 23, 1967, Detroit police raided an unlicensed social club, or “blind pig,” on the city’s Near West Side. The all-black clientele, who had been celebrating soldiers returning from Vietnam, were hauled away in paddy wagons, igniting five days of rioting. Stores were looted, cars and buildings burned. State troopers, the National Guard, and eventually two airborne divisions were called in. By the end, more than 7,000 arrests were made, and 43 people, mostly black, were dead.
The director Kathryn Bigelow’s Detroit opens with lightly animated variations on Jacob Lawrence’s painting series on the Great Migration, as onscreen text explains the deep roots of black Detroit’s discontent. Bigelow then dramatizes the raid on the blind pig and the outward ripple of violence through the city. A young John Conyers, then serving his second term in Congress, pleads with residents, “I need you not to mess up your own neighborhood.” We see footage of Michigan Governor George Romney, bearing an almost disconcerting resemblance to his son. A little girl peering out a window is mistaken for a sniper and shot dead. A baby-faced detective shoots a looter in the back and is informed by a superior that he may face murder charges. For a time, it appears that Bigelow, as she did in her superb and sophisticated Zero Dark Thirty, will tell a broad, multi-faceted story, the tale of a city that has become a war zone.
Kathryn Bigelow Sort of Apologizes for 'Zero Dark Thirty' Torture Confusion
But she doesn’t. Working from a screenplay by her customary collaborator, Mark Boal, Bigelow instead quickly narrows her focus to a single building on the night of July 25th. The building is a detached house that served as an “annex” to the black-owned Algiers Motel. On the night in question, 10 black men and two white women were in the annex when nearby Guardsmen believed a sniper had fired on them from one of the windows. Along with Detroit police and state troopers, they shot out windows and then stormed the building. By the end of the night, three of the residents—all black men—would be shot dead, and the remainder beaten and humiliated.
Detroit is a powerful, harrowing film. Insofar as it seeks to place viewers in the shoes of its helpless, terrified victims of police brutality, it succeeds to an almost unbearable degree. But that is a strangely narrow ambition for a filmmaker of Bigelow’s gifts, not to mention a film whose title encompasses an entire city. What is missing is not merely scope, but nuance: Zero Dark Thirty and Bigelow’s earlier The Hurt Locker conveyed not merely the conflict between characters but also that within them. Detroit, by contrast, is purely a story of villains and victims, a horror movie made all the more horrible by the fact that it is true.
Inevitably, accounts vary concerning precisely what took place in the Algiers Motel annex that night. (John Hersey wrote a 1968 book trying to reckon with these inconsistencies called The Algiers Motel Incident.) Bigelow and Boal have done their best to recount the events as accurately as possible, but unlike Hersey they have to pick one story and stick with it. And the story they choose, though chilling and intense, is disappointingly one-dimensional in its portrayal of both the Algiers Motel residents and their police assailants. (In order to clarify the choices the filmmakers made, I will describe some of the historic and cinematic details; those concerned about mild spoilers, be advised.)
The apparent “sniper fire” was one resident fooling around harmlessly with a starter pistol. Although he was shot almost immediately after authorities stormed the building, the pistol was never recovered. Police then rounded up the remaining residents in a ground-floor hallway, among them a returning vet (the excellent Anthony Mackie), a doo-wop singer (Jacob Latimore), and the two party-seeking young women (Hannah Murray and Kaitlyn Dever). When the Guardsmen and state troopers leave the scene—the latter, sensing trouble, don’t want to “get involved in any civil-rights incident”—the residents are left at the mercy of three Detroit policemen. They are all, like the vast majority of the force at the time, white.
Two of the cops (played by Ben O’Toole and Jack Reynor) are clearly racist and comfortable with the use of violent force on civilians, in particular black ones. But the third (Will Poulter) is a sociopath out of central casting, right down to the Mephistophelean tilt of his eyebrows. Lest we have any doubt on this score, he is the same baby-faced officer whom we saw kill a looter without remorse earlier in the film. He is insistent that he will not leave the premises until a shooter is identified and the gun recovered. To this end, he and his partners line the residents up facing the walls of the hallway and proceed to use every brutal tool at their disposal: beatings, murder threats, mock executions, and ultimately (if, in Bigelow and Boal’s telling, somewhat accidentally), actual killings.
This scene in the hallway is the centerpiece of the two-hour-plus film, and it is nothing short of horrifying. The residents’ terror is palpable, as is the cops’ air of utter impunity. But the impact of violence in cinema is rarely cumulative: Each successive depiction may repulse, but over time they begin to numb as well. So it is with the hallway scene. What begins as a shocking portrait of police misconduct gradually becomes a test of audience endurance.
If this extended central act is problematic in narrative terms, it is even more so when it come to the film’s political message. Poulter’s diabolical cop, however accurate, tells us next to nothing about the cultural and institutional forces that fed racism and abuse in the city (for example, the lack of a civilian police review board, and a police “value system” that encouraged bigotry). He is evil, full stop, with no further context or explanation required.
Bigelow and Boal’s efforts to avert any hint of moral complication is made most apparent in their treatment of the most ambiguous figure in the story, Melvin Dismukes, a black private-security guard who was also present at the motel and, according to some witnesses, participated in the beatings. Detroit does not consider this possibility, instead presenting Dismukes (played with quiet charisma by John Boyega) as a good man in an impossible situation, a peacemaker who tries only to protect the motel residents. The film presents his subsequent prosecution—in extreme contrast to that of the white cops—as a gross injustice. And it does not mention at all that he, along with the cops, was found guilty by an informal tribunal of black city leaders that included Rosa Parks.
In Zero Dark Thirty, Bigelow and Boal embraced such moral complexities and contradictions. Indeed, the film was so nuanced that some viewers—egged on by self-interested critiques from Senators John McCain and Dianne Feinstein, among others—believed the film to be “pro-torture,” which it emphatically was not. (Always be skeptical when political figures present themselves as film critics: The former LBJ aide Joseph Califano similarly helped torpedo Selma’s Oscar chances with an op-ed in The Washington Post.)
It is easy to understand why Bigelow and Boal sought to avoid such ambiguities in Detroit—given both the ugly tensions of the current political moment and the ways in which Zero Dark Thirty was misconstrued. But the result is a film that, for all its emotional power, is strangely disengaged from the cultural and systemic forces that led to police brutality in 1967 and continue to do so today. It is an opportunity missed.
The Emoji Movie might have been 💯 . It might have been a work of quiet genius, in the manner of Toy Story or The Lego Movie or Inside Out: a quirky and soulful exploration of the worlds that exist in parallel to our own, investing objects that would seem merely to be dully inanimate with story and, thus, empathy. It might have been, too, a particularly timely exploration of smartphones and their contents: Here, after all, are objects that are with so many of us, at our sides and in our hands, humming bits of glass and metal that tell a million little stories with each swipe, and each tap, and each touch of a warm human pulse.
But: no. The Emoji Movie, instead, is a frenetic mishmash—not so much a single story of a parallel world so much as a roller-coaster-y tour of some of the apps of 2017: Spotify, Instagram, Twitter, Candy Crush, even Dropbox. Everything, here, is branded—even the parallel world itself, Textopolis, which is home to Gene, the offspring of two “meh” emojis. Gene is, in the grand tradition of such for-kids-but-also-not-totally-for-kids films, Different. He is not limited, in the way of the emoji, to one expression; he can make them all. But in order to realize that which makes him Different might actually make him Special, Gene first goes on a dizzying journey—through Textopolis, yes, but also through Spotify and Just Dance and YouTube and, in general, late capitalism as it is understood and manufactured by the Hollywood of the moment.   
Because of that—and because also, ironically, of the premise that might have been 💯—critics eviscerated The Emoji Movie. Really gleefully eviscerated it. (Schadenfreudenunicoden?) The New York Times called it “nakedly idiotic.” BuzzFeed wrote that “it’s barely a movie so much as a confused attempt to both condescend to an audience about their short attention spans thanks to mobile devices while also trying to profit off of that very same audience.” Gizmodo did an all-emoji review of the film featuring, primarily, the Thinking Face emoji in several permutations. So critically unloved was this film—so squandered the promise it represented—that for a moment it seemed to be in contention for that rarest of honors: a 0 percent approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes. (Alas, even that moon-shooting was a failure: The film currently stands at an awkward score of 7 percent.)
The Case Against the Grammar Scolds
In a weird way, then, The Emoji Movie is not just a critical flop, but also a metaphor for a Hollywood that is struggling to find the line between branding that audiences love and branding that audiences resent. Here is a film that takes some of the most intimate tools of people’s lives—the hearts and eggplants and joy-tears and tacos and other images that help them to express their love, and their desire, and their sadness—and considers how wacky it would be if one of those images was actually a guy named Gene. Here is a film that takes the revolution that has resulted from the advent of digital communication and whimsically brands it. Emojis, after all, are not just the little doodads that live in your WhatsApp. They are also, in the most basic and most profound of ways, tools—parts of a global continuum that has included everything from hieroglyphs to emoticons to text itself. They ask questions about what it really means for something, at this point in human history, to be “universal.”
The Emoji Movie, as it happens, shares a rough premiere date with The Emoji Code, the new book from the scholar and prolific author Vyvyan Evans. Evans’s book (subtitle: The Linguistics Behind Smiley Faces and Scaredy Cats) is an analysis—aimed at a popular audience—of the academic research that has been conducted about emojis since their creation in the late 1990s. It summons linguistics, and psychology, and cognitive science to consider why emojis have proven so popular and, so far, enduring. It reads, often, as a defense of what Evans refers to as Emoji, with a capital E: the complicated system of pictographs that augment text in digital communication. The collection of unicode that, Evans argues, “enables us to provide the non-verbal cues otherwise missing from textspeak.”
Evans’s book is a thorough exploration, in other words, of the extremely two-dimensional stars of The Emoji Movie. But it is also, in its arguments, something of an implied condemnation of The Emoji Movie. In Evans’s science-informed telling, emojis are not a language unto themselves, as has sometimes been suggested, but rather tools of communication that are productively basic: useful bridges of the emotional gaps that can exist in the dull black and white of text as it is rendered on a screen. The Emoji Code in many ways champions emojis against those who have seen the cheeky pictographs not as extensions of English, but as a threat to it—and to, by extension, language as we have known it.
And while that framing can itself occasionally read as overly two-dimensional—there are few people, at this point, who seem to believe that emojis will be the death of English, or any other language—it also situates The Emoji Code well with the ideas espoused by the linguist John McWhorter, and by the linguist Gretchen McCulloch, and by so many other canny observers of English as it lives and grows in its new digital environments: Language, breathing free, is its own kind of democracy. And that is evident online, in particular, where a good turn of phrase, or a new meme, or indeed a cleverly deployed emoji, can be so easily amplified and adapted and woven into the language. Emojis, in particular, are elastic in that way: They can mean whatever the writer, and whatever the recipient, decide they mean, together.
That can lead to a productive kind of ambiguity. Remember that tattoo Drake got a few years ago, which could be read either as two hands, praying, or as two hands, frozen in a high five? The star, as New York’s Adam Sternbergh pointed out, finally settled the matter: “I pity the fool who high-fives in 2014,” Drake clarified on his Instagram. But there would be many more debates in that vein. Are those dancing twins, symbols of female friendship, or Playboy bunnies, symbols of female objectification? Is that a toothy mouth-gape a grin or a grimace? When I texted “Drinks?” and you texted back, “🐙,” what did you mean?
This kind of ambiguity, Evans suggests, also gives way to useful flexibility. It allows emojis the kind of semantic suppleness that helps them to humanize, and augment, and otherwise expand, our text-based communications. Emojis can function as punctuation. They can work as pictographic versions of “lol.” They can convey personality—identity—with notable economy. Slack, the group-messaging service widely used for professional chatting, recently offered users the ability to add emojis to their handles, as a kind of status update—a 📅  would mean “in a meeting,” a 🚌  would mean “commuting,” a 🌴  would mean “on vacation,” and so on. Almost immediately, though, the service’s users expanded on Slack’s idea: They began using the emoji-status capability to augment their handles in more playful and expressive ways. Suddenly, Slack chats proliferated with people whose names were accompanied by screaming cats and expressionless faces and tiny, squared portraits of Jay-Z. The emojis had been used for a different purpose than the one originally intended. They had been made at once more fun and more expressive of users’ identities. They had been, in their way, democratized.
It’s a small point when it comes to emojis but a bigger one when it comes to the political power of language. Emojis are part of a broader phenomenon playing out across social media: English is exploding, at the moment, with new words and new grammars and new modes of human expression. It is alive—not in the way the creators of The Emoji Movie have imagined on our behalf (hey again, Gene), but in a much more meaningful way. As Evans puts it:
While Emoji will surely continue to evolve, and other systems and codes will be developed that will complement and, doubtless, replace Emoji as it currently exists, its emergence provides the beginning of a more or less level playing field, between face-to-face interaction and digital communication—better enabling effective communication in the digital sphere.
The Emoji Movie is notable in part because, in its very conceit, it pushes back against all of that buzzing evolution. It tries to brand it. It tries to turn it into intellectual property. As Alex French reported in a fantastic piece for The New York Times Magazine, there’s a booming business in Hollywood right now, one that involves taking existing intellectual property and, through the insistent alchemy of the studio budget, converting it into a Story. Angry Birds. Battleship. Fruit Ninja. Jumanji. And on and on.
Films like this are of course part of a much larger trend in Hollywood, the one that involves comic-book franchises, and sequels-to-sequels, and a hefty reliance on the general notion of the “universe”—films that give rise to anxieties about the reboot industrial complex and that cause people to wonder, extremely fairly, whether Hollywood is simply out of new ideas. (In 2016, La La Land was the only film of the year’s 20 top-grossers to have been wholly original—that is, not based on existing material. In 1996, nine of those 20 had been based on original screenplays.)
But The Emoji Movie and its fellow travelers are different. They aren’t merely adapting stories from another genre; they are taking something that has no story of its own—the toy, the game, the emotion—and attempting to inject story into it. As the producer Tripp Vinson told French, the changes that have come about in Hollywood over the past decade have “forced me to look at everything as though it could be I.P.” Sometimes, the results of that general approach to the world—everything can be a story—are delightful. Sometimes, they can be creatively Lego Movie-esque, their imagined worlds allowing for satire and allegory as well as entertainment. Many more times, though, those films read as cynical. They scan less as works of cinema than as weary exercises in forced anthropomorphism: big-screen versions of Clippy. (“It looks like you’re writing the script for a soulless cash grab! Would you like help?”)
And that’s another problem with The Emoji Movie. It takes all the productive linguistic experimentation that is happening every day—every minute—every second—in people’s phones and lives and reduces it down to stock characters who go through the motions of extremely conventional storytelling. Sony won The Emoji Movie in a bidding war against, reportedly, Warner Bros. and Paramount. In that sense, Gene belongs to the studio. But in another sense, Gene does not belong to anyone. Those silly little pictographs belong to us all. The Emoji Movie grafts its own plot onto the tools that real people, people who are not Hollywood studio executives, have been using to write their own stories, to have their own fun, to tell their own truths. No wonder the movie made them, in the end, a little bit 😡.

I read all 512 pages of Angelica Baker’s debut novel greedily, in one dizzying weekend, unable to put it down. Which is fitting, in a way: Our Little Racket follows the sudden downfall of a Lehman Brothers–esque CEO through the eyes of his wife, their teenage daughter, and the other women surrounding them, and as such it’s very much a story of greed and its out-of-control consequences. But the book gets beyond moneymaking hubris to a more basic kind of desire—the fretful, shapeless longing of those who are sidelined to be seen somehow as indispensable.
Binge-watchers of Big Little Lies will enjoy the elegantly cutthroat politics of suburban life in wealthy Greenwich, Connecticut, while fans of Elena Ferrante will like the sharp portrayal of the delicate power balances in women’s friendships. But any reader will appreciate the tightly woven drama of this book, which brings its five protagonists out of the margins of the crisis and into an explosive confrontation of their own.
Book I’m hoping to read: Love in the Time of Cholera by Gabriel García Márquez
—Rosa Inocencio Smith, assistant editor
For Selin, the Turkish-American protagonist and narrator of Elif Batuman’s The Idiot, arriving at Harvard in the fall of 1995 is an occasion of great flourishing. Intellectual and experiential horizons are broadened. New technology, in the form of, yes, email—“a glowing list of messages from all the people you knew, and from people you didn’t know … like the universal handwriting of thought or of the world”—makes apparent the complexities of our ever-evolving epistolary media. But it’s also a time of emotional confusion: Selin falls for a bland, apparently brilliant, Hungarian mathematician named Ivan. Several years her senior, he treats her as an odd curiosity, someone to be intrigued by but never quite taken with.
While Selin’s on-again, off-again pursuit of Ivan gives The Idiot its narrative spine, for me, the novel’s true pleasures are in the rapid maturation of her powers of observation. “Why was ‘plain’ a euphemism for ‘ugly,’ when the very hallmark of human beauty was its plainness, the symmetry and simplicity that always seemed so young and so innocent,” Selin muses. It’s a work of peculiar discovery, a portrait of the artist as a young Turkish-American woman obsessed with language and its powers. And Selin’s infatuation with Ivan, too, offers her a way to work out her nascent theories of love, life, and meaningful expression.
My anxious, sweaty, early college days were full of unrequited longings, both romantic and cerebral—I wanted my opinions about Bergman, Chekhov, and colonialism to be valued and important. The Idiot took me back to that awkward time, full of pain and strangeness, but also of promise and delight.
Book I’m hoping to read: Neuromancer by William Gibson
—Siddhartha Mahanta, associate editor
Fear and Loathing in America is a collection of Hunter S. Thompson’s private and business letters between 1968 and 1976. There are other earlier and later collections, but in these years he’s in his prime. “The Battle of Aspen” (Rolling Stone, 1970) is one of my favorite pieces of his, and here you see how it came together, and how it shaped his understanding of journalism’s role in political power.
Thompson carbon-copied all of his letters and reportedly imagined they’d be published one day, which slightly ruins the idea that you’re looking inside his head when reading them. His letters have the same energy and humor of his columns. But to whatever degree his persona involved conscious performance, it’s one he kept up for thousands of pages of private correspondence. I come out believing the reason his work resonated with so many people was because it was authentic. It’s possible the crisis of faith in journalism today would be helped if there were more writers as relatable, unpretentious, and candid as he was.
There are, of course, parallels between his feelings about Richard Nixon then and many people’s feelings about Donald Trump today. It can be cathartic to wade through HST’s despair for democracy and the American idea, and to realize that it was not less intense than many people’s today, and to see how he coped and didn't, and to remember that he and the country made it through.
Book I’m hoping to read: Things That Happened Before the Earthquake by Chiara Barzini
—James Hamblin, senior editor
This hefty graphic novel by the Korean cartoonist Yeon-Sik Hong is one of the simplest stories I’ve read this year. It has no real suspense or plot, no grand reveal. Based on Hong’s own experience moving with his wife Sohmi from Seoul to the countryside, Uncomfortably Happily is a candid, engrossing tale of two comic artists looking for comfort in solitude and minimalist living, even as the twin shadows of poverty and stress loom.
While they are thrilled to leave the smog and noisy crowds behind, the couple relocate largely out of financial necessity; on page after page, the irritable Hong agonizes over his meager paychecks and unfulfilled creative dreams. Uncomfortably Happily, which is plainly but engagingly drawn, spends as much time, though, on the daily indignities and triumphs of living in the mountains. Divided into seasons, the book reflects the duo's newfound connection to the patterns and whims of nature: In the winter, the couple experiment with burning coal to save money. In the spring, they begin the tricky work of loosening the soil and planting sesame, lettuce, and mugwort. They fret over trespassers, chores, and commuting to the city. They adopt a dog, buy some chickens, and clean up the mess when the dog kills the chickens. Sometimes, they treat themselves to grilled meat for dinner or go for a swim.
I appreciated the book’s contemplative, and realist, mode, and its unromantic look at oft-romanticized lifestyles: that of the country-dweller and that of the artist. Beyond that, I just found it therapeutic to follow the quietly charming Hong and Sohmi week to week, not doing much more than making do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Nochita by Dia Felix
—Lenika Cruz, associate editor
At 549 pages, Nobody’s Fool is not a short novel, but it could be easy to dismiss as slight. The setting is unremarkable, and the action, such as it is, unfolds slowly. But Richard Russo, who would go on to win a Pulitzer Prize for his 2001 book Empire Falls, creates compelling characters and writes with such humanity and humor that the book is pure delight. The story is built around Sully, a down-on-his-luck everyman who lives in a blue-collar town in upstate New York; his son Peter, a college professor whose career and marriage are failing; his aging landlady Miss Beryl; his dim-witted best friend Rub Squeers; his anxious ex-wife Vera; and a menagerie of other townspeople who bring a boisterous joy to the happenings. Russo’s mastery of dialogue, gift for observation, and penchant for amusing cul-de-sacs more than compensate for any lack of pyrotechnics in the plot.
Book I’m hoping to read: Hue 1968: A Turning Point of the American War in Vietnam by Mark Bowden
—Bob Cohn, president
Now is a time to be reading about Israel. Every day, it seems, some new controversy brings the little Middle Eastern country back into the American discourse; while U.S. politics are going through a period of chaotic scramble, the politics of U.S.-Israel-Palestine appear to be on the same steady path toward crisis. Ari Shavit’s book is not a political argument, exactly: It is about the history, and fraughtness, and hope of the land of Israel, and all the ugliness, ambition, joy, and sadness with which the country came to be. He tells the story of Israel's founding and evolution through original interviews and personal narrative, inviting readers along on a journey of historical reckoning that is profoundly ambivalent in its conclusions. That the author himself has become a troubled figure in recent months only adds to the long list of questions I'm wrestling with as I approach the end of the book.
Book I’m hoping to read: Far From the Tree by Andrew Solomon
—Emma Green, staff writer
I spent a night in a seaside tent shortly after finishing Annihilation, and it transformed the familiar-to-campers morning symphony of bird songs, buzzing insects, and crashing waves into something new and not altogether comforting. In this hypnotic and deadpan hybrid of sci-fi, science non-fiction, psychological thriller, and horror, Jeff VanderMeer imagines a group of scientists venturing into a stretch of the American coastline that’s been taken over by a mysterious something rebuffing the influence of humankind. Our narrator, referred to only as “the biologist,” describes a vibrant wilderness that defies her understanding not only of science but also of her own perception. To say much more about her expedition’s mind-bending findings would spoil the book, the first of a trilogy. But trust me: Once you begin Annihilation, you’ll see the flora and fauna around you with more clarity—which is to say, with proper awe at its unknowability.  
Book I’m hoping to read: A Separation by Katie Kitamura
—Spencer Kornhaber, staff writer
There’s a thin line between trashy summer reads and meaty, good summer reads. How many times can you flop on the beach with a thriller like The Girl on the Train and not feel like you are bingeing on candy and your brain is turning into a big cavity? I'm always on the lookout for a page-turner that isn’t too indulgent, and Jennifer Haigh’s Heat and Light fits the bill. It has a weighty topic—fracking in Pennsylvania—but deftly tackles the human dimensions of the subject and creates tension that keeps the reader occupied. Through the eyes of a farmer, a prison guard, an activist, a housewife, and a man employed by the drilling industry, the book looks at how a small town reacts to fracking among its farms. This would be easy to do in black and white—fracking bad, environmentalists good—but Haigh brings texture to her characters, making the reader really consider the pros and cons of outside business coming into small, dying towns. In short, you can take Haigh's book to the beach and leave the guilt behind; it’s well written, and will definitely make you think.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sympathizer by Viet Thanh Nguyen
—Alana Semuels, staff writer
There are certain books that occupy such a place in my consciousness that a simple glimpse of its spine fills me with joy and transports me to where I was when I first read it. The Shadow Lines is such a book. I picked it up recently after nearly two decades to see whether it held up; as before, I was quickly engrossed. The novel is funny, sad, wistful, and ultimately tragic: An unnamed narrator describes his hero worship of one cousin, his unrequited love for another, and the friendship between two families, one English and the other Indian, forged during the war. Amitav Ghosh’s writing luxuriates in what seem like the certainties of the past, but contain memories that are misremembered, half-remembered, and deliberately concealed—the shadow lines of the title. The book can be difficult to follow: It moves back and forth in time, between places, among multiple story arcs, often on the same page. But it’s precisely those qualities, and Ghosh’s incisive observations along the way, that make reading it an arresting experience, as I once again discovered.  
Book I’m hoping to read: July 1914: Countdown to War by Sean McMeekin
—Krishnadev Calamur, senior editor
Bianca Bosker was the executive technology editor at The Huffington Post when she abruptly quit her job and took a $10-an-hour gig as a “cellar rat,” hauling cases of wine for a Manhattan restaurant. Her endgame: to immerse herself in the world of “cork dorks,” master sommeliers and obsessives who devote their lives to studying, sampling, and selling wine. Cork Dork is an account of Bosker’s journey from a casual wine drinker to the sommelier at Terroir Tribeca. But it’s also an enlightening and wacky introduction to the wine industry itself, with its manifold highs (1989 Chateau d’Yquem) and lows (highly processed wines like Yellow Tail and Sledgehammer that contain additives like powdered egg whites or bentonite clay).
Bosker’s mission seems journalistic, at first—she wants to ascertain what actually makes a super-nosed oenophile, and whether such rarefied powers of perception are within the grasp of the average Cabernet drinker. This involves an alarming number of days where she’s hungover by 2 p.m. after attending tastings to bolster her limited education. But she ends up thoroughly absorbed in the weird world she documents, even as she maintains an outsider’s ability to skewer its more ridiculous elements. Cork Dork is, somehow, both an entry-level guide to the ever-growing business of wine and a masterclass in the strange, immensely skilled fanatics who make it their life’s work.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Ministry of Utmost Happiness by Arundhati Roy
—Sophie Gilbert, staff writer
Years ago, an editor instructed me to read My Traitor’s Heart, Rian Malan’s 1990 reported memoir about Late Apartheid South Africa. I can’t recall what the context for that recommendation was, but I didn’t get around to picking up the book until this summer, when the timing felt fortuitous: What better moment to read about a society tearing itself apart, wracked with police violence against people of color, with a progressive bloc standing by, wringing its hands solemnly but unable or unwilling to formulate an effective response?
But it’s unfair to distill My Traitor’s Heart to, or read it as, merely a parable for the present era in American politics. For someone of my generation, who grew up with the Apartheid regime as a sort of cardboard bogeyman, Malan’s vivid reportage makes the horror of South Africa under P.W. Botha come alive in sickening ways. And Malan, the renegade son of a deeply connected Afrikaner family and a disenchanted former Marxist, is at his best when he is skewering the illusions and pieties of white South Africans who opposed the racist regime. He is especially unsparing in enumerating the faults of one young liberal: himself.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fly Me by Daniel Riley
—David A. Graham, staff writer
As much as I love discovering new books, I find myself coming back to Jeffrey Eugenides’s first novel, The Virgin Suicides, at least once a year. And more often than not, it happens to be during the summer: The June months that bookend the story feel even more poignant when I’m sitting in the same muggy, buzzing weather as the Lisbon sisters and the boys so enthralled by them.
The Virgin Suicides turns what could easily be a dark and depressing tale into an engrossing, lyrical story about youth, innocence, and that ever elusive idea of teenage girlhood. Told from the perspective of a group of middle-aged men looking back on their past, Eugenides’s novel attempts to explore what it is that brought the five Lisbon sisters to kill themselves. The narrators fail to reach a solid conclusion, but learn more about the sisters as people, concluding that “the girls were really women in disguise, that they understood love and even death, and that our job was merely to create the noise that seemed to fascinate them.”
It’s easy to forget the particulars of what it means to be a teenager—“Obviously, Doctor, you’ve never been a 13-year-old girl,” says the youngest Lisbon sister, Cecilia, when chastised for not knowing how tough life can really be—but Eugenides’s writing has a way of making those isolating high-school years feel familiar, relatable, and not all that long ago.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Underground Railroad by Colson Whitehead
—Tori Latham, editorial fellow
In her debut novel, Salt Houses, Hala Alyan pulls readers into the daily ups and downs of displaced people, using themes of memory, inheritance, ongoing loss, and rebuilding. The Palestinian American author was inspired by her own family’s experiences being forced to relocate: As she notes of that past in an interview on NPR’s Morning Edition, “A lot of the times it’s something that's really not brought up, which then leaves it to the later generations to reimagine, reconceptualize, kind of recreate what it was that was lost.”
Alyan—who has published three books of poetry—moves the reader lyrically through multiple storylines, continents, and political contexts to depict how families carry their history, through major turning points as well as the everyday. Starting in Nablus, Palestine, in 1963, Salt Houses paints a detailed and emotional portrait of the struggles and triumphs of creating home and reconciling that which no longer exists. It poses difficult and personal questions about what displaced people can give to their children, what they want to be remembered and what—consciously or unconsciously—slips through the cracks.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Sobbing School by Joshua Bennett
—Taylor Hosking, editorial fellow
If there’s one thing watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—and there is, now that I think about it, pretty much only one thing that watching a lot of HGTV has taught me—it’s that the kitchen is the most important room in the home. Bedrooms are great, Joanna and Chip will enthuse; bathrooms are necessary, Property Brother One and Property Brother Two will concede; living rooms (pardon, Family Spaces that have been laid out, ideally, according to a whimsical Open Concept) are definitely, Tarek and Christina will tell you, a crucial component of the whole deal. But the kitchen: That’s the non-negotiable. It’s the place where everyone, finally, comes together—the warm and beating heart of the home, whatever kind of home it may be.
HGTV’s kitchen-centricism is a (sort of) new idea—remember when fancy dining rooms were the thing to aspire to?—that is also an extremely old one. Food, after all, has been for millennia a driver of community. Consuming it and preparing it, in particular, have long encouraged cooperation and, with it, culture. Our DIY relationship with our meals is in fact, Felipe Fernández-Armesto argues in his 2001 book Near a Thousand Tables: A History of Food, part of what makes us human. “Cooking deserves its place as one of the great revolutionary innovations in history,” the Notre Dame history professor writes, "not because of the way it transforms food—there are plenty of other ways of doing that—but because of the way it transformed society.”
Fernández-Armesto makes his case with eloquence and, especially, with wit (“Lego cookery,” he calls the cuisine that calls itself “fusion”; “food-Fordism,” he dubs fast food, as a phenomenon). But Near a Thousand Tables isn’t (merely) another takedown of our current, highly industrialized food system. Fernández-Armesto instead considers food as a constant companion to human history; he examines it in relation to imperialism and to class. He sweeps across cultures and cuisines and eras with polymathic ease. The result, I should note, is definitely not traditional beach reading. But in another way, Near a Thousand Tables is a fitting book for summer, with the season's park picnics and family barbecues and time spent outdoors, among food both actual and potential. Its lessons have made me appreciate, even more fully, the things I cook and consume. Even if those things aren’t served, sadly, on a fashionable breakfast bar.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Mothers by Brit Bennett
—Megan Garber, staff writer
Grace and the Fever is the story of a girl who meets a member of her favorite boy band, Fever Dream, and gets drawn into their world. But there’s a twist—she’s super-active in the online community of fans who believe two of the band’s members are in a hidden gay relationship. (The storyline is seemingly inspired by the real-life conspiracy theory that One Direction’s Harry Styles and Louis Tomlinson are secretly in love.)
A fun, escapist read, Zan Romanoff’s book also evokes that particular feeling of teenage summers—of a compressed period of change, of a self that’s blooming in the heat. It’s a story of how people find themselves through the things they love, but also of the dangers of giving too much weight to the mythologies they create around them. “You can see something very clearly without knowing what it is,” Romanoff writes. “You can know what something is without understanding what it means. Something can be real, and not at all true.”
When Grace discovers the truth about the band she adores, she has to reconcile it with the story she’s been telling herself. She also has to reconcile the many different stories she’s been telling about who she is—to her friends, to the band, to her online compatriots. Romanoff’s sensitive and thoughtful portrayal of fandom gives it a literary weight equal to the importance it has in fans' lives.
Book I’m hoping to read: Marlena by Julie Buntin
—Julie Beck, senior associate editor
Maurice Sendak’s illustrations are so fantastic that it’s easy to overlook the brilliance of his design choices. Such decisions are quite meaningful, in fact. A story is subtly shaped by a book’s physical contours; there are layered meanings in the interplay between text and art; there’s utility built into the very act of turning the page—a gap in time and space that must be closed by the reader.
“My heartbeat actually changed with the excitement of discovering the picture-book medium with all its complexities,” the art historian Jane Doonan tells Jonathan Cott in his new book, There’s a Mystery There. Cott’s ode to Sendak is an engrossing extension of the 1976 Rolling Stone cover story he wrote about the illustrator, who died in 2012. To make sense of Sendak’s legacy, Cott revisits their conversations from that time and also turns to a panel of scholars, including Doonan.
What emerges is a clearer picture of Sendak the man, and also a riveting excavation of his approach to art. Sendak often described his work as an exploration of how children understand their own feelings of fear, anger, frustration, and boredom. But Cott sees more nuance than that, comparing the emotional resonance of Sendak’s work to a sense of “being outside and inside … at the same time.” This is why it makes sense in Sendak’s universe for a whale to spout chicken soup with rice, and for a glass milk bottle to be a skyscraper, and for a child’s bedroom to be suddenly canopied by trees. In childhood, the smallest and most ordinary spaces are infinite. And when the potential for adventure is everywhere, the distance between a precarious journey and a reassuring homecoming collapses.
Reading Cott’s book, I was struck by the wish to have known Sendak as a boy. Through his beloved canon, I realized, we already do.
Book I’m hoping to read: Gender and Jim Crow: Women and the Politics of White Supremacy in North Carolina, 1896-1920 by Glenda Gilmore
—Adrienne LaFrance, editor
Lidia Yuknavitch’s latest novel, a futuristic reimagination of the story of Joan of Arc, opens on a gruesomely detailed scene of burning flesh. In The Book of Joan, skin serves as canvas, screen, and page: Grafting artists are the Dickenses of their era, etching epic sagas and love tales onto their hairless clients’ scalps, necks, and thighs. The narrator, Christine, is one such artist, and she is methodically burning onto her own body a text, the titular “book”: the biography of a young environmental activist named Joan who has become a symbol of resistance as the world’s wealthy elites have their way with an ecologically devastated Earth. The “book” is a way for Christine to document the truth about Joan amid widespread propaganda that would cast her as a terrorist. It is also, as it were, a weapon of protest in a world taken over by sly, false narratives—ones that can move mass opinion, to toxic, even apocalyptic effect.
If this plotline sounds a bit self-serious, Yuknavitch smartly cuts it with mordant humor. She gives Christine, her wry narrator, the nickname “Christ.” She makes Joan crotchety, powerful but not particularly charismatic, and the horrid, dictatorial Jean de Men—a dangerously effective raconteur determined to squelch Joan—essentially, a popular romance novelist. Throughout, Yuknavitch is interested in examining what happens when language is torqued away from average people, and what results when they try to torque it back in their direction. With The Book of Joan, she proffers a thought-provoking meditation on the influence of story—on how it can manipulate and inspire, and how it can be used to resist.
Book I’m hoping to read: Notes of a Crocodile by Qiu Miaojin
—Jane Yong Kim, senior editor
Canada by Richard Ford
What if your parents were bank robbers? That's essentially the premise of this 2012 novel by Richard Ford, the writer best known for his four Frank Bascombe books, including the Pulitzer-winning Independence Day. While those works more broadly explored the anxieties and pieties of late-20th-century America, in Canada, Ford examines a different set of questions—about criminality, marriage, and the lessons a child learns from his parents—with impressive range.
Where the Bascombe books star a middle-aged, middle-class Southern transplant to the Northeast, Canada is the story of a working-class family in mid-century Montana told from the perspective of an orphaned teenager, Dell Parsons, who is sent north of the border after his parents are arrested. How do you cope with a rupture that sudden? How do you start over? What lessons do you learn from your parents, and what do you discard? In the narrator Parsons, Ford has created a new voice, one that’s entirely distinct from the now-familiar Bascombe. He's more wistful than wry, but no less engaging. And though Canada is tighter in scope than Ford's earlier works, it moves quickly and grabs you from the start.
Book I’m hoping to read: Anything Is Possible by Elizabeth Strout
—Russell Berman, senior associate editor
Published earlier this year, The Draw, a memoir by the cultural critic Lee Siegel, is deeply unsettling. The first 20 pages reveals the heart of the trauma: Siegel’s father, unable to repay advances on his salary, has gone bankrupt, while his mother devolves into a screaming, slapping hurricane of disappointment. From then on, Siegel spends his adolescence shrinking from his mother’s increasingly erratic power trips and struggling to accept his father’s shrinking sense of self. With uncomfortable composure and clarity, Siegel dissects his parents—labeling faults, diagnosing neuroses—and himself.
This book upset me, but I couldn’t put it down. Siegel’s clinical judgements and fluid transitions, combined with his almost humdrum childhood experiences, make The Draw an engrossing read.
Book I’m hoping to read: Presence in the Modern World by Jacques Ellul
—Katie Martin, designer
I'm a lifelong sci-fi fan, and as any lifelong sci-fi fan can tell you, the repetition of themes and tropes sometimes cripples the genre. So when I was introduced to Liu Cixin's The Three-Body Problem, the space-opera trilogy to which it belonged, and Chinese science fiction in general, it was like a window opened onto a new universe. Just the act of seeing fictional futures through an international lens added depth to my understanding of the genre. And it didn't hurt that the work was thrilling and fresh.
In between his own award-winning sci-fi and fantasy work, Ken Liu has been the chief promoter of the Chinese-American science fiction cultural exchange, so it's no wonder that he translated and edited Invisible Planets, a speculative fiction collection from new and classic Chinese authors. Included are a short story from Liu Cixin and a trippy time-bending Hugo-award-winning novella “Folding Beijing” from Hao Jingfang. Also of interest are the collection’s essays on Chinese sci-fi identity and the prominent role the genre has played in developing cultural identity.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Stone Sky by N.K. Jemisin
—Vann R. Newkirk II, staff writer
Moonglow is not a memoir and, despite what its cover would have you believe, it’s also not quite a novel. It falls somewhere in the nameless space between the two, recounting the story of a writer named Michael Chabon and his maternal grandparents in a way that feels true but that doesn’t always adhere to the facts.
The book centers on stories Chabon’s grandfather tells while lying on his deathbed, high on painkillers: stories about his childhood, his military service during World War II, his NASA career, his time in jail, his marriage. To the narration of these remembered episodes, Chabon brings the same vivid descriptive voice and engaging character development I loved in his earlier novels, crafting moving portraits of his grandparents as they grapple with the damage left by the war and navigate the fluctuations of their lives together. But Chabon abandons the more straightforward plot progressions he laid out in those books, instead jumping around in space and time and veering off on tangents in the distracted, non-linear style of real memory.
The resulting work is something new from Chabon, something beautiful, compelling, and sincere in the way of the very best family stories—and the best books.
Book I’m hoping to read: The Association of Small Bombs by Karan Mahajan
—Annika Neklason, editorial fellow
Thomas Friedman’s latest book has a simple thesis: that the characterizing feature of the 21st century is the convergence of the planet’s three largest forces (technology, globalization, and climate change), and that these accelerations are transforming the workplace, politics, geopolitics, ethics, and community. Friedman convincingly builds one big case for “being late”—for, essentially, pausing to reflect on and take stock of our current period of history. His methodical, explanatory approach, similar to the one he uses in his New York Times columns, will appeal to those who have a tendency to get caught up in the daily news cycle and don't take a moment to see broader patterns emerge.
Book I’m hoping to read: Option B: Facing Adversity, Building Resilience, and Finding Joy by Sheryl Sandberg
—Annabelle Timsit, editorial fellow
At one point in her powerful memoir, the New Yorker writer Ariel Levy observes that she had “managed to solve the Jane Austen problems that women have been confronting for centuries … in an entirely unconventional way.” And for a blip, that’s true. But then comes a crueler set of rules: those of nature, including fertility. Levy explores her friends’ battles with conception—before losing her own child. The book tracks her overwhelming grief and her efforts to accept it. (In one poignant passage, she writes of finding companionship from her cats, who are “no more baffled by agony than they were by dishwashing.”)
If you’re looking for sugared-up platitudes about life and its meaning, maybe pass on this one. It left me with a sadness hangover. But Levy’s memoir offers comfort for the realist: "Death comes for us,” she reminds the reader. “You may get 10 minutes on this earth or you may get 80 years but nobody gets out alive.” That rule very much still applies.
Book I’m hoping to read: Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
—Caroline Mimbs Nyce, assistant editor
When I read it earlier this year, I fell hard for Elif Batuman's debut novel, The Idiot. So I was excited, this summer, to delve into her earlier book, The Possessed: Adventures With Russian Books and the People Who Read Them. The nonfiction collection’s unusual subtitle gives some indication of its genre-defying contents: Published in 2010, it’s a first-person account of Batuman’s years as a graduate student in Russian literature that manages to be laugh-out-loud funny.
In The Possessed, as in The Idiot, Batuman punctuates the mundane with singular, sometimes self-deprecating, wit. “Air travel,” she writes, “is like death: Everything is taken from you.” Her ear for the absurd is matched by her ability to distill it into unflinchingly honest, delightfully readable prose replete with memorable characters. In Batuman’s capable hands, obsessive grad students appear as worthy of study as their dissertation subjects. Describing a private tour of the Hermitage Museum’s 18th-century wing, she contrasts her experience with that of a friend who, unlike Batuman, specializes in the period: “I soon felt the full weight of historical boredom on my soul. When I left the museum, she was gazing with a kind of rapt criticalness at the upholstery of an armchair embroidered in 1790 by pupils from the Smolny School for Aristocratic Young Ladies.” Happily, this book, as much about the accident-strewn path to adulthood as about history, is never boring.
Book I’m hoping to read: Fear City by Kim Phillips-Fein
—Amy Weiss-Meyer, associate editor
Exit West by Mohsin Hamid
Mohsin Hamid’s novel Exit West is many things: It’s a window into the daily lives, mundane and beautiful and horrifying, of Nadia and Saeed, two students living through their unnamed country’s civil war. The bombs, death, tragedy, and fear intersperse with work and a budding romance. It’s also a story of magical escape, which starts when Nadia and Saeed utilize mystical doors that instantly transport them away from one danger and often into another—first Greece, then the United Kingdom, and eventually the United States. Finally, it reflects on what it takes to make a new place home, and whether that is even possible.
While Hamid’s plot takes the reader along a geographic journey, it’s his protagonists’ emotional and psychological arcs that provide the story’s real narrative. Hamid weaves in acknowledgements of the physical and external hardships and dangers associated with refugee life, but his complicated portrayal of how two people, bound by extreme circumstance, must try to reinvent themselves in new places prove to be the most illuminating part of Exit West.
Through their meeting and subsequent flight, Hamid uses Nadia and Saeed to explore questions of religion, love, family, gender, and migration. It’s a tall task that the book delivers on gracefully and thoughtfully.  
Book I’m hoping to read: The Color of L​aw: A Forgotten History of How Our Government Segregated America by Richard Rothstein
—Gillian B. White, senior associate editor
Almost 10 years ago, Martyn Waites, a British crime writer, was having coffee with his editor. Waites, who was at something of a loose end project-wise, was looking for new ideas. His editor, though, was looking for a woman. Or, more specifically, a high-concept female thriller writer who could be the U.K.’s Karin Slaughter or Tess Gerritsen.
“I said I could do it,” Waites recalls. His editor was skeptical. But then Waites outlined an idea for a book based on a news story he’d once read, about a serial killer targeting pregnant women and cutting out their fetuses. The concept, he admits somewhat bashfully, was a gruesome one.
“That’s exactly what we’re looking for,” was his editor’s response.
That idea became The Surrogate, a crime thriller published in 2009, and Waites simultaneously became Tania Carver, his female alter ego. Before he started writing, he embarked on a period of research, reading novels by popular female crime writers, and made “copious notes” about their various heroes and villains. Waites was an actor before he was a writer, and “Martyn” and “Tania” soon became different personas in his head, almost like characters. He’d sit down to write as Tania and then realize the concept was much better suited to Martyn. Martyn books, he explains, “were more complex, more metaphorical. The kind of things I like in writing.” Tania books were simpler: mainstream commercial thrillers aimed at a female audience. And they rapidly became more successful than any of Waites’s previous books had been.
Women Are Writing the Best Crime Novels
The case of a male author using a female pseudonym to write fiction was relatively unheard of when Tania Carver emerged, but the explosion of female-oriented crime fiction in the last five years has led to an increasing number of male authors adopting gender-neutral names to publish their work. Last month, The Wall Street Journal’s Ellen Gamerman considered the phenomenon, interviewing a number of writers who fessed up to being men: Riley Sager (Todd Ritter), A.J. Finn (Daniel Mallory), S.J. Watson (Steve Watson), J.P. Delaney (Tony Strong), S.K. Tremayne (Sean Thomas). The trend is ironic, Gamerman pointed out, because the history of fiction is littered with women writers adopting male or gender-neutral pseudonyms to get their work published, from the Brontë sisters to J.K. Rowling.
This shift in fortunes can be attributed to a handful of factors. While exact numbers are hard to source, women readers have come to dominate fiction, where they’re widely touted as representing as much as 80 percent of the market. And while crime fiction and psychological thrillers are often associated with male readers, women read most of those, too—between 60 and 80 percent. Dr. Melanie Ramdarshan Bold, a lecturer in publishing and book culture at University College London, told me that women also prefer to read books by women, citing a Goodreads survey that found 80 percent of a new female author’s readership is likely to be female.
The last few years, in other words, have seen a significant reorientation of the crime-fiction landscape, to the point where male writers might consider themselves at a disadvantage. The news that some are choosing to disguise their gender was met with triumph by some commentators, who interpreted it as proof that the literary tables had turned. It prompted eyerolling by others, who noted the irony of men trying to enter a genre of stories about “dead or missing women” that women authors and readers had only recently reclaimed as their own.
But the success of writers like Gillian Flynn and Paula Hawkins and Karin Slaughter isn’t just due to the fact that they’re women. Rather, it’s that the books they write often interpret the world through an unmistakably female lens. Waites quotes an adage that the difference between crime writers is that a male writer will note what a crime looks like, whereas a female writer will explore what it feels like. Finding success in contemporary crime fiction, then, isn’t just about adopting a gender-neutral name. It’s about writers comprehending why women are so compelled by stories about brutal, graphic violence in the first place.
* * *
One of the earliest examples of a crime story was told by a woman, Scheherazade, who staves off her execution in The Arabian Nights with “The Three Apples.” In the tale, a fisherman finds a locked box that contains the dismembered body of a young woman, and a vizier is tasked with finding the murderer. The roots of the first female detective novels, the scholar Adrienne E. Gavin has written, are in Gothic novels like Ann Radcliffe’s 1794 work The Mysteries of Udolpho, where women are “victims of crime and held captive, but also escape through proto-detective methods to triumph in the end.”
The most influential female crime writers, though, emerged in the Golden Age of Detective Fiction in the 1920s and ’30s, when Agatha Christie, Dorothy L. Sayers, Margery Allingham, Josephine Tey, Ngaio Marsh, and others perfected the art of the whodunnit. Their heroes were frequently male, like the detectives Hercule Poirot, Albert Campion, and Lord Peter Wimsey, and when novels were centered around female protagonists those women tended to be atypical investigators. The rise of hardboiled detective fiction by authors such as Dashiell Hammett and Raymond Chandler, Gavin argues, made the female sleuth “a less threatening figure: elderly, amateur, and detective by accident rather than design.”
But women readers were no less intrigued. In Christie’s work in particular they found an attention to detail and a deft understanding of the nuances of society in early 20th-century England, in addition to meticulous plotting. (Christie reportedly considered publishing her first novel under a male pseudonym, but couldn’t decide between Martin West or Mostyn Grey and so elected to use her own name instead.) Then, in the 1940s and ’50s, as male crime writers created prototypically masculine characters in the wake of two world wars, women writers like Dorothy B. Hughes and Vera Caspary wrote fiction more rooted in psychological suspense, with more complex female characters.
Sarah Weinman, the editor of the anthology Women Crime Writers, says one factor that defines these books is “a tremendous lack of sentimentality.” At that time, she explains, “the men writing were the romantics. The women just told it like it was. They saw it, they relayed it, and they didn’t sugarcoat it.” That pragmatism can be felt today in some of the most successful works of crime fiction. Writing in The Atlantic last year about women crime novelists, Terrence Rafferty noted that this new breed of writers “don’t much believe in heroes, which makes their kind of storytelling perhaps a better fit for these cynical times. Their books are light on gunplay, heavy on emotional violence.”
But contemporary female crime writers—particularly Karin Slaughter, best-known for her Will Trent series—don’t necessarily stint on the physical violence either. And paradoxically, that may be another thing that makes them so compelling. Women readers, Weinman notes, have always been drawn to darker stories. “There’s a running trope,” she says, “that the gorier the serial-killer narrative, the more likely that little old ladies are reading it.” One of the biggest surprises for Waites when he adopted the persona of Tania Carver was learning how much women readers enjoyed, even craved, brutality in stories. At one event, a woman asked him if his books were particularly violent, adding, before he could respond, “Because I’ll read them if they are.” Slaughter, who’s sold more than 35 million copies of her crime novels, is so regularly asked why her books include such graphic depictions of violence that there’s a section about it on her website.
More recently, women writers have been exploring abusive acts within a more intimate environment—the home. In the last five years, the stratospheric success of books like Gillian Flynn’s Gone Girl (reportedly the 25th bestselling book in history) and Paula Hawkins’s The Girl on the Train has sparked a new subset of crime fiction that the author Julia Crouch has named “domestic noir.” Books in this genre, Dr. Ramdarshan Bold says, “tend to focus on the female experience, in domestic settings.” They feature female protagonists, and often explore—in addition to criminality—the nuances of relationships and marriage, areas that Bold says have been “largely missing from popular crime novels in the past.”
The notable success of such books in the market has inspired a fleet of imitators, and has led some to question the propriety of men attempting to break into the genre under the guise of gender-neutral pseudonyms. “They’re not lying, exactly,” Jezebel’s Kelly Faircloth wrote. “It’s just that if you’re idly browsing in Barnes and Noble, looking for a Gone Girl-style read, you won’t encounter any immediate tells. One of the authors featured has gone so far as to try on a bra so he didn’t make any obvious mistakes that might throw female readers out of the story. Wonder if he also gets the infuriating emails or the creepy DMs or the generally patronizing bullshit?”
* * *
The practice of using pseudonyms in popular fiction is a common one. Authors, Weinman explains, will often change their pen name if works published under their previous name haven’t sold particularly well. She points to Todd Ritter, who published an antebellum mystery under the name Alan Finn before rebooting once again as the ambiguously gendered Riley Sager. “My name had become somewhat of a liability,” Ritter explained in a blog post introducing Finn. “And, since we were looking for a new publisher, one could argue that editors would be willing to go with someone who had a clean slate, rather than a critically acclaimed author with a spotty sales record.”
Final Girls, Riley Sager’s first novel, is a hit, having been praised by Stephen King as “the first great thriller of 2017,” and touted by Whoopi Goldberg on The View. The book is about the lone survivor of a horrific “movie-scale massacre” who’s attempting to move on from her traumatic past when she discovers more women are being found dead. “We were, for whatever reason, the lucky ones who survived when no one else had,” the protagonist, Quincy, explains. “Pretty girls covered in blood.” The book is self-aware about its use of a horror-movie trope that regularly inflicts violence and torture on women. But Ritter’s adoption of a female persona to publish the book raises complex questions about who should tell stories about brutalized female bodies. Is it somehow less gratuitous when women are writing these novels? Or, given that so many women readers are enjoying them regardless, is it just a harmless ploy to reach a bigger audience?
Queries about what’s appropriate and not have long plagued this corner of the industry. Ten years ago, the book world erupted in a debate over whether women authors were too violent in their treatment of their female victims. When the Scottish author Val McDermid was criticized by the crime writer Ian Rankin for her graphic depictions of violence, McDermid struck back. “There is still a funny notion that women should not write violent fiction, and yet women more often than not are the victims of sexual violence,” she told The Guardian. “So what are we saying—that the ones most likely to experience it should not write about it?”
The question of why women enjoy reading about violence inflicted on women is a complex one. Hawkins, in previous interviews, has pointed out that women are simply looking for stories that align with their own experiences of the world. “Men tend to be attacked by strangers, women tend to be attacked by people they know.” Most women, she added, “are made to think about themselves in terms of what they should be doing to prevent violence happening to them.” Part of the explosion of domestic noir and other female-driven books is surely that they interpret violence from a female perspective, giving voice and thoughts to victims who’ve been more typically portrayed in crime fiction as bodies on a cold slab.
But the enjoyment of crime fiction also aligns with a desire to see justice served. Law & Order: SVU, a show that regularly portrays brutal sexual and physical violence against women, is also hugely popular among female viewers. On the one hand, it takes the abuse of women seriously. But on the other, it creates a neat framework where cases are solved and perpetrators are punished. The same applies to to books. Crime fiction, Weinman says, offers order: “Reading about a serial killer who gets caught, or a missing child who’s found, or a woman who’s brutally murdered and the case is solved, there’s an ending, and some catharsis. Narrative provides a trajectory where real life can’t.”
There’s arguably an implicit trust when women read thrillers written by women—a mutual understanding that each is taking the subject personally, and bringing their own experiences to the stories at hand. “Women authors,” Slaughter explains on her site, bring “a different perspective” to stories about abuse and sexual assault. That’s not to say male writers can’t empathize or can’t channel the same kind of emotional intelligence the best female writers bring to crime fiction. Waites says he’s particularly proud of one of his Tania Carver books that deals with the topic of domestic violence. But he also acknowledges that he reads crime fiction by female authors and is aware that many of them write scenes he would feel uncomfortable trying to get away with.
Ultimately, Weinman says, the trend for female-oriented psychological thrillers may have crested, and writers and publishers will soon be jumping on to the next bandwagon. But the long history of crime fiction, and its relatively recent foray onto mainstream readers’ bookshelves, proves that women have always been compelled by stories about murder, which may, however strangely, make them feel safe. At least part of the recent popularity of thrillers by female authors has to do with understanding that writers are bringing their own lived experiences of the world to their work, and those experiences align with their readers’. For male writers, replicating their success is a lot more complicated than simply adopting a pseudonym.
It’s been a busy five years for Ava DuVernay. Since winning the Best Director Award at Sundance Film Festival in 2012, she has accrued many “firsts”: becoming the first black female director to have a movie (Selma) nominated for a Best Picture Oscar, to be nominated for a Golden Globe Award, and now to helm a film with a $100 million budget (Disney’s A Wrinkle in Time). DuVernay’s work goes beyond feature movies, to include 13th, the award-winning documentary on mass incarceration, a forthcoming Netflix limited series about the Central Park Five, and a TV and digital-media deal with Oprah Winfrey’s Harpo Films.
Though DuVernay is juggling projects across different platforms, she tends to focus on history and injustice. Perhaps none of her works better melds experimentation and realism than the television drama Queen Sugar, which aired its emotional mid-season finale on Wednesday. The Louisiana-set series follows the Bordelon siblings—Nova, Charley, and Ralph Angel—as they work to take care of the sugarcane farm they inherited from their father and debate whether the land is more of a burden or a chance for a fresh start. The show also touches on issues such as incarceration, police abuse, class, and the legacy of slavery as it persists in the South. In the latest episode “Freedom’s Plow,” the siblings are still reeling from the recent discovery that their father bequeathed the farm solely to Ralph Angel, instead of all three children. In subtle ways, the Bordelons are testing whether they can overcome the fractures in their relationships—or whether those divides will calcify in the absence of a common goal.
As her works have garnered buzz and critical acclaim, DuVernay has used her spotlight to call attention to the dearth of opportunities for women and people of color in the entertainment industry. “Of the 900 top-grossing films that hit screens in the last 9 years, only 34 women held the directing position,” she tweeted this week on Black Women’s Equal Pay Day. She also tweeted that just three black women directed a top-grossing film between 2007 and 2016, adding, “Being one of these doesn’t make me proud. It upsets me.” DuVernay herself has made it a point to include women and people of color in front of and behind the camera; for example, she hired all female directors for both seasons of Queen Sugar, many of whom were women of color.
While it appears that DuVernay’s ascendance as a director was swift, the beginning of her career was somewhat untraditional. She studied African American history, not film, at UCLA, and didn’t direct her first short film until the age of 32. I spoke with DuVernay about the plot twists in this season of Queen Sugar, her secret to finding success in Hollywood, and why black stories are timeless. Our interview has been edited for length and clarity.
Adrienne Green: This week’s mid-season finale of Queen Sugar was such a rollercoaster. What did you learn from the transition between the first and second season, and how are you looking forward to the third?
Ava DuVernay: We’re on our 40th hour if you consider both seasons, and shooting the finale of Season 2 right now. That’s a lot of time thinking about these characters, and you learn about them the more you’re with them. It's just like a friend: You know them on the surface, and then you get to know them better. The cool thing is, I get to make my friends do what I want them to do in the show. It's been fun to pit them against each other and move them around and figure out how their lives intersect and diverge. It's been a learning process with this Bordelon family.
Green: What I appreciate most about this season is that it really continues to unpack the complexities of each of the Bordelon siblings. It was interesting that the family was forced to project this image of control even as everything was falling apart, because a reporter was profiling them for a magazine story. Did you start with that conflict in mind?
DuVernay: Yes. Looking at the facade and trying to challenge the facade, that’s what [the show] is about. Queen Sugar is about identity. It’s about who we tell ourselves we are and who we really are. It’s who we are to the public, who we are within our families, and who we are within our own minds. The writers and I are constantly challenging that and putting these characters in situations where they have to face that. I’ve faced that myself. There’s nothing more startling than having a real conversation with your brother where you’re talking about [serious] stuff, and then you have to go and walk a red carpet.
It’s not much different from someone who doesn’t have a carpet to walk. It’s Paul Laurence Dunbar’s poem, “We Wear the Mask.” It’s the duality that we all face in terms of the way we are with different people and in different spaces. But with [the middle sibling] Charley, and the press, and her public persona, and the rising public persona of [the eldest sibling] Nova, it allows us to juxtapose those public and private spaces in a way that’s much more apparent to the narrative.
Green: I'm so glad you mentioned Nova. She’s a character of your own creation (she wasn’t in the novel that Queen Sugar is based on). Where did you find your inspiration for her?
DuVernay: There is a bit of me in both Charley and Nova. So in thinking about who Charley and Ralph Angel were going to be, it seemed like there needed to be another voice there that included some of the things that were important to me. Nova has been a conduit for a connection to the community and to a lot of social issues, whereas with Ralph Angel, we comment on those things in a more interior way: If the writers want to talk about criminal justice and incarceration through Ralph Angel and his story, it’s powerful because we see him living it. Whereas we’re able to make Nova’s character more forward-facing, with the information that she’s able to relay to viewers through her community activism and her journalism.
I also wanted to integrate the other parts of New Orleans into the show. And so having someone [like Nova] who is connected to the Ninth Ward, allows there to be a through line between the black families in rural communities in Louisiana and the black families and black people in the more urban areas, which was important to me in constructing the world of Queen Sugar. I didn’t just want it to be a “black farm show.” It was about expanding the idea of this black family out into other spaces. Nova as a character serves a number of purposes, and obviously there is a juxtaposition between different kinds of femininity and black womanhood in Charley and Nova—neither one being better than the other, just different in the way that they look, act, and their priorities.
DuVernay: We’ve had different changes to the writer’s room, and I’m always bringing in new directors, so it’s important for me to keep a through line for what my intention for the show is. And my intention is to say something every week, but to find a way where it doesn’t feel like a “very special episode” of Queen Sugar about this topic. So that could be Blue’s doll, Kenya, or the fluidity of Nova, or financial freedom and the patriarchal infrastructure that Charley is facing, or the horrible way this country treats formerly incarcerated people with Ralph Angel, or even the issues of Aunt Vi. We’re trying to put all of those things into a stew where we are saying something, but also you’re just watching a family going through it and it doesn’t feel like medicine.
Green: You mentioned the characters dealing with a wealth of social issues that come up today. (Charley’s son Micah is still dealing with the emotional fallout of his encounter with an aggressive police officer. Nova and her love interest Dr. Robert Dubois speak often of how to secure meaningful change for the black community, and chafed against a Trump supporter while attending a dinner party. Even Ralph Angel is pressed to make sure he’s still on the payroll at the farm to comply with his parole.) How do you straddle the timeliness of these issues with the larger history and legacy of the show’s characters and setting?
DuVernay: The sad thing is these stories are not timely to the black community; they’re timeless. A young black man or a black man of any age fearing or having challenges with law enforcement is not something that is timely; it is unfortunately an ongoing issue that we have to deal with.
If I’m reading a script and someone is going to put a trendy word in the script, I might say, “That won’t read well here.” But overall in terms of our storyline and the issues, I feel like there’s never a challenge where we’re trying to fit something in because it fits the time.
Green: As we look ahead, what should we expect from the rest of the season? How are these characters going to deal with all the hurt that's been unearthed in the last couple of episodes?
DuVernay: What you’ll see is there are parts of the characters’ drama that dissipate and just go away because they have to keep dealing with each other. And there are probably unexpected parts of that tension that grow and grow until they’re so big that the characters can’t get around them. Also, there are a couple of big doozies in the second half of the season. There are going to be a couple things that take people off guard and really shock folks. I think it's important to do that and keep people on their toes if they watch the show, because that is what life is. Nothing is expected. It’s just about the ability to be prepared, and the best preparation is to be strong with other people, and that’s what this family needs to do.
Green: I want to talk to you more about your experience as a businesswoman. You described yourself as a “weekend warrior,” when you were first starting out in filmmaking and didn’t attend film school. What do you hope that people take away from your experience when they think about the entertainment industry at large?
DuVernay: Just that the most important thing is the “thing,” not all the stuff around the thing. If you say you’re a filmmaker, then focus on your story and your filmmaking as opposed to the industry. When I started I wasn’t focused on the industry, and I wanted to make my thing, and I wanted to get it out in any way that I could. Yes, I would work and I would write on the weekends. I made my own little films with my own money that I pieced together. I would distribute my work on my own and go around to DVD stores and record stores and sell my own DVDs like E-40 out of the trunk of his car. It wasn’t really dissimilar. It was like trying to hustle these movies and play these tapes. The joy that I got by showing my films at a small black film festival in North Carolina or Seattle is the same joy that I get—I can’t convince people of this, but I know it’s true in my heart—when I show it at Sundance or Toronto or Venice.
Walking into a theater and seeing people watch my first film I Will Follow is the same feeling that I get seeing people watch Selma or 13th. The conversation around Queen Sugar on social media is a completely new phenomenon, and it shows me that there are always new ways to reach people and share my stories. If there’s anything my path can help people understand, it’s that you can have joy in the work, as opposed to, “I need an agent, I want to walk the carpets, I want the magazines, I want to be Issa Rae, I want to be Donald Glover, I want to be Ava.” None of that [success] happened to them because they wanted to be anyone else. It all happened because we were focused and enjoyed the process.
It doesn’t work for everyone. But let’s say no one ever wants to see anything you made, sang, painted, wrote, directed. If no one wanted to eat the food you made, but you had an amazing time in the kitchen making it, you loved it, you were tasting your own sauce, and you were chopping up the onions, and you got the chop down just right, and you enjoyed the meal ... wasn’t it worth it? I just see so many people on the grind for the wrong thing. Don’t be on the grind for the fame. That's fleeting; who cares. Be on the grind for the joy.
Green: I want to return to you hustling out of your car like E-40. You’ve made so many different kinds of work: a network television show, independent films, a documentary, multiple feature films, one of which, A Wrinkle in Time, has a $100 million dollar budget. How has navigating the business sides of these projects changed with their scale and exposure?
DuVernay: I’ve done feature films, narratives, or documentaries, a series on traditional linear television, a series on streaming platforms. There’s a film I did for the Smithsonian that you can only see when you walk in there. The beautiful thing is that I’m able to make my work at a time when the traditional walls have collapsed and everything is open and changing. You have Ron Howard who is across the pond shooting Star Wars, but he also shot a documentary and a documentary series that are both nominated for Emmys. He’s one of the biggest filmmakers, and yet he can go make a documentary series for television and no one blinks.  
Twenty years ago, you couldn’t do that. Documentarians made docs, and TV people made TV, film people did film, and it was all segregated. People looked down on you when you crossed. Now, what a blessing that we’re in a world where literally I can make a movie of a certain price point at Disney and then my next project, Central Park Five, is for a streaming platform and it’s in five parts. A lot of the black women who came before me did not enjoy that flexibility. We’re at a time where there are no boxes. Martin Scorsese can do a commercial. A director of a television show can make an indie and be nominated for an Academy Award. I just feel fortunate, and I’m trying to step into the moment and take advantage of it.
Green: We know how giving women the opportunity to direct is shaping the industry at large, and some of the women from the last season of Queen Sugar have gone on to other great opportunities on TV. But how do you think specifically it has shaped your work life having women in decision-making positions all around you?
DuVernay: I grew up in a matriarchy, in a family of all women. I don’t understand a structure where women aren't making decisions; that’s a foreign thing for me. Not that you can’t work with men, but the fact that there would be such an imbalance to any kind of process, whether government or industry, is uncomfortable for me. When I was able to dictate what my space would be and who I would be around and who would be around me, I was just striving for balance.
With Queen Sugar I felt like it was necessary to overcorrect for the abominable statistics in that space in television. But, in general, I’m just looking for there to be a little bit of everybody. I don’t think that should be a radical idea. I don’t think about it much, I just make it so.

The titular schlubby hero of Menashe might, with a few tweaks, be a perfect fit for the lead of a Judd Apatow comedy about a wayward man-child. He works a fairly menial job at a supermarket stocking shelves, but still manages to be bad at it; he’s well-liked by his co-workers, but irritating to his boss and his family, all of whom wish he’d stop cracking jokes and iron his shirts once in a while. Though Menashe (played by Menashe Lustig) is quite a relatable ne’er-do-well, his story is set in Hasidic Jewish Brooklyn, one of America’s most insular communities.
Joshua Z. Weinstein’s debut fiction film (he has directed several documentaries) is heavily indebted to the classic neorealism of the ’60s but is delivered entirely in Yiddish. It’s a quiet, poignantly told tale of a man who’s not exactly an outcast, yet who struggles to fit into a very ordered society. At times sweet, but never patronizing, Menashe examines a world that might seem foreign or oppressive even to other Brooklynites who live alongside the Hasidim—without ever turning its inhabitants into either caricatures or figures of fun.
Oy Vey: Yiddish Has a Problem
Weinstein has accomplished that by rooting his story (co-written with Alex Lipschultz and Musa Syeed) squarely in reality. Menashe’s story is based on the real-life struggles of Lustig, a Hasidic actor who has long clashed with some of the more conservative elements of his community. Like Lustig, Menashe is a widower with a young son he’s not allowed to live with, since Hasidic tradition forbids a man without a wife from raising a child. The simple solution is to remarry, but Menashe refuses to, finding excuses to object to everyone the community tries to set him up with.
Menashe is not about a bitter custody battle, or even a principled stand taken against an unfair society. Menashe’s love for his son Rieven (played by Ruben Niborski, the only non-Hasidic actor in the film) is not in doubt, although there’s a childish clumsiness to their times together. Menashe, critiqued by his strict and disapproving brother-in-law Eizik (Yoel Weisshaus) as a schlimazel, is certainly a sloppy caregiver, feeding his son potato chips and soda for breakfast, and unsure of how to win his affection other than by buying him presents or taking him out for ice cream.
Even as Rieven is embarrassed by his dad, the two clearly share a deep bond. If there’s any religious conflict between Menashe and his late wife’s pious brother, it’s over the godliness of raising a child without a mother, and Menashe’s willingness to defy the instructions of his rabbi (Meyer Schwartz). The movie never develops into a Kramer vs. Kramer-style drama in its 82-minute running time: This is still a society where Talmudic law is absolute, and there’s little chance of bending it to accommodate Menashe’s unorthodox wishes.
The film’s most telling scene is one of the abortive dates Menashe goes on with a woman in a similar situation to him—widowed, with children, looking to make a new home. His potential partner grows quickly frustrated with Menashe’s unwillingness to join a marriage of convenience and with his inability to articulate the reasons for his stubbornness. She goes on to critique the men of her community as perpetually locked in childhood, cared for first by their mothers and then their wives.
It’s the one truly critical look at the rigid structure of Hasidic life that Weinstein allows the film, and it’s rightly offered by a woman, the most marginalized figure in Menashe’s world. His date is the only woman with a major role in the movie, but the biggest female presence is Menashe’s late wife, whose connection with her husband was obviously strong enough to linger after she died; that, to the people around him, is the most puzzling mystery.
But Menashe is wise not to be preachy, or to make sweeping judgments about Hasidic life. Weinstein’s workmanlike camera style allows him to act as a bystander who has gotten closer to a world that’s still sealed-off (the director struggled to convince Hasidic actors to participate in the project). In grounding the story in a particular personality, and the familiar connection between a father and son, Weinstein has created a subtly powerful work of human drama, driven by the charismatic, if frustrating, man at its center. Menashe bodes well for Weinstein’s future as a storyteller; it succeeds at taking older cinematic traditions of everyday storytelling and using them to help illuminate a world most viewers know little about.
Joel Schumacher’s The Lost Boys—which turns 30 years old this week—has, in some respects, the very things you’d want from a 1980s horror-comedy: big-haired vampires, noisy motorcycles, big-haired vampires riding noisy motorcycles, Corey Feldman. True to ’80s form, the film embraces some of the best excesses of American popular culture, employing ridiculous blood baths and an over-the-top rock-infused soundtrack as it depicts a family’s struggle to fight the small army of leather-wearing teenage demons swarming their town.
But The Lost Boys offers much more than style, nostalgia, and genre thrills. At its core, even three decades later, Schumacher’s film is a remarkably prescient tale that mines the complexities of kinship. The movie’s portrayal of a seemingly wayward mother and her adolescent sons debuted at a time when many Americans feared the deterioration of traditional dynamics in the home—between parent and child, husband and wife. More so than the other films of its era, The Lost Boys subtly challenged dominant cultural expectations that saw the nuclear family as a social and moral ideal.
How Batman & Robin Changed the Superhero Movie for the Better
The movie begins with Lucy Emerson (Dianne Wiest), a newly divorced recovering hippie, moving with her sons, Michael and Sam (Jason Patric and Corey Haim), to the fictional California town of Santa Carla to live with her father, Grandpa (Barnard Hughes). Inauspicious signs abound from the start. Several young people have gone missing in Santa Carla, and Michael soon becomes obsessed with the mysterious Star (Jami Gertz), who hangs out with a gang of bloodsuckers helmed by David (Kiefer Sutherland). Sam eventually partners up with the vampire-killers Edgar and Alan Frog (Feldman and Jamison Newlander) to save his older brother from the undead. In other words, The Lost Boys is a tale of feuding families: the Emerson clan on the one hand, and David’s carnivorous squad on the other.
While the story might sound straightforward enough, it’s worth adding a bit of historical context. The Lost Boys was released amid a new wave of American conservatism that had begun gaining momentum near the end of the ’70s. Of particular note was the evangelical preacher Jerry Falwell’s organization, the Moral Majority, which marshaled right-wing Christians as a political force for the first time against abortion, homosexuality, and other supposed social ills. The group sought to protect American “family values” (a term now primarily associated with the Christian right) after what it saw as the rise of a destructive social liberalism in the previous decade. The Moral Majority threw its full weight behind Ronald Reagan’s 1980 presidential campaign, with some observers crediting the group with the win.
The Lost Boys proffers a vision at odds with the prevailing socio-political narratives of the Reagan era. The Emersons, most obviously, don’t square with the long-held conviction—then, but also now—that the best kind of family is the nuclear family: a man and a woman, who are married, raising their biological children together. Rather than centering this kind of arrangement, as many films of the decade did, The Lost Boys provides a more empathetic rendering of the atypical Emerson clan (and, later, even many of the vampires). The Emersons are broke, sure, but they’re not exactly falling apart as their family structure shifts. Instead, everyone works hard to find stability in their new life, with Lucy, whose role as matriarch is taken as a given, hustling to find a new job, alongside her older son.
Even compared to other ’80s movies, The Lost Boys stood out. By the end of the decade, the film critic Emanuel Levy notes, the nuclear family had suddenly resurfaced on the big screen after a decline in portrayals in previous years. “In the late 1980s, the American cinema no longer accentuates male camaraderie, individual heroism, and adventurism,” he writes. “Rather, a stronger emphasis is placed on group structures (marriage and family) and traditional values (domesticity), reflecting the Reagan era’s ‘upbeat’ philosophy.” Unlike some of its contemporaries—like 1984’s Sixteen Candles or 1987’s Fatal Attraction—Schumacher’s movie exposed American viewers to a different moral landscape, one that didn’t uncritically latch onto the accepted household set-up. (Notably, America’s top-grossing film of 1987, Three Men and a Baby, also bucked kinship norms.)
The Lost Boys deals with the theme of family, and how it bears on adolescence, in other, harder-to-miss ways: vampires, and lots of blood. The embattled Michael is caught in a tug-of-war between his biological (or “blood”) family and the sort of “chosen” family that has formed around the lead vampire David and his ilk. “Michael, you’re one of us. Let go,” David says shortly after Michael drinks what turns out to be some of David’s blood from a bejeweled bottle, a move that begins to convert Michael into a half-vampire. The film’s title, which is a reference to characters in J.M. Barrie’s Peter Pan, defies clear interpretation. Are the lost boys supposed to be Michael and Sam? Or the vampires? And if it’s the latter, what precisely makes them lost? Is it their status as undead beings—or the fact that they don’t conform to a conventional family arrangement? The countercultural reading isn’t a stretch: Schumacher has said that The Lost Boys “is, in a way, about the fear we have of the Other—those who live outside of the mainstream.”
The Lost Boys hinges on repudiations and reversals of the nuclear family structure, with perhaps the best example coming from the character of Max (Edward Herrmann). Tall and bookish, he’s Lucy’s love interest, favorably observing throughout the film that Lucy has a “generous nature” and is a “protecting mother.” Later on, during the final balletic, bloody showdown, it’s revealed why Max has been laying on the gendered remarks so thick: He’s the head vampire, on the hunt for that primordial symbol of domesticity—a mother for his boys. “It was all going to be so perfect, Lucy. Just like one big, happy family. Your boys and my boys,” Max says, half-jokingly. To which Edgar replies, so very perfectly: “Great! The bloodsucking Brady Bunch!” This line pokes at some of the decade’s wildly popular coming-of-age Brat Pack movies, which tend to feature some degree of suburban nostalgia for how families “used to be.”
The film’s choice of monster matters, too. In her 1995 book, Our Vampires, Ourselves, the Victorian literature scholar Nina Auerbach writes that “every age embraces the vampire it needs,” making the case that society tends to reimagine vampires into totems of actual socio-political anxieties. One of these fears in the ’80s, of course, was what many people saw as the atrophy of the American family. But by the time Reagan was in office, a related fear was already gripping the United States: that of the AIDS epidemic, which by the end of the decade would kill thousands of gay men. “Once the etiology of AIDS became clear, blood could no longer be the life; vampirism mutated from hideous appetite to nausea,” writes Auerbach. The Lost Boys doesn’t explicitly contend with AIDS, but it nonetheless dealt with blood intimately at a time when the substance was fraught with new, grim connotations.
Queerness is another vampire trope that can be read in The Lost Boys. With the exception of Star’s ambiguous relationship with the vampires, David and his band of boys seem disinterested in, and live a lifestyle devoid of, women. Sutherland, too, has nodded to the film’s apparent homoerotic undercurrent, remarking that the “whole scene where I catch [Michael] in the fog coming off the bridge ... I mean, it’s a very sensual moment!” (The director, Schumacher, himself has long been openly gay.)
This isn’t to say that The Lost Boys advances an uncomplicated, progressive idea of family. The film does appear to feature some of the moral concerns of the time, what Levy describes as a focus on “stability and maintenance of the status quo against ‘outside’ forces,” and what others say are “self-obsessed divorced parents and their abandoned kids, left vulnerable to fall into any number of dangerous situations.” But such interpretations risk perpetuating the very stubborn perspectives that the movie is actually wrestling with—that children of divorced parents are lost, that women who leave marriages are neglectful.
Many elements of the plot, including Lucy’s search for a father-like partner, may seem more conventional. “The renewed paternal authority in vampire films of the 1980s ... nullifies the vampire gang itself, whose supposed freedom is orchestrated by an inescapable patriarch,” Auerbach argues. But The Lost Boys is too clever to buy fully into this genre trapping, even if the plot seems to operate in one register. Consider how absurdly the vampire kingpin Max is taken out: impaled on a wooden fence post when Grandpa’s truck careens into the house. Max is comedically blown to smithereens—as is, the film implies, his power as the gang’s father figure.
Thirty years after The Lost Boys’ release, it’s easy to take the movie’s forward-thinking vision of kinship for granted. After all, the look of American families has changed dramatically over the decades—there isn’t even an overarching family type anymore. Yet the film questions many of the moral assumptions attached to ideas that endure today, including the belief that the “stable two-parent family” is still the best arrangement for children. While The Lost Boys might not be the most popular vampire tale in the canon, its bracing brew of quiet commentary and genre reinvention certainly puts it among the most memorable. Though known for its more superficial delights, Schumacher’s movie continues to prod viewers to reflect more deeply on their own lives—a legacy that, like the vampires themselves, will never die.
This post reveals minor plot points for The Bachelorette Season 13.
Here is one of the tweets that Lee Garrett, a recent contestant on The Bachelorette, posted to the internet before he was cast as a potential husband for Rachel Lindsay, the first black Bachelorette in the show’s long history:
“What’s the difference between the NAACP and the KKK? One has a sense of shame to cover their racist-ass faces.”
Here’s another: “I do hate Islam.”
And also: “I wholeheartedly support inhumane torture of terrorists.” And also: “Hillary is the millennial’s version of O.J.” And also: “#Liberalism is a disease.” And also: “When is the last time YOU actually saw a pretty feminist?”
The Bachelorette Reveals Itself for What It Is
The Bachelorette’s producers, who have traditionally given their contestants thorough vettings before selecting them to appear on a reality TV show viewed each week by millions of Americans, have suggested that they were ignorant of those postings prior to Lee’s coming onto the show. The Bachelorette continued that general posture toward Lee’s now-exposed views—shock, outrage, indignation—when, on Monday evening, the singer-songwriter from Nashville joined his fellow eliminated men in a longstanding tradition of the Bachelor franchise: The Bachelorette: The Men Tell All special.
The special, set in a studio full of roses and candles, attended by an audience consisting mostly of women in cocktail dresses, traditionally mixes the wacky and the serious—a little bit blooper-reel, a little bit Talking About Feelings. But this season’s The Men Tell All was notable for a different reason—a reason that went back to Lee’s tweets, and to the racism-tinged drama that characterized the season the show’s marketers sold to the public as “historic.” In one way, to its credit, the show offered a forum for The Bachelorette—and for its cast and, by implication, for its viewers—to talk about race. And it gave the men who had been Lee’s castmates—Kenny Layne, in particular, whom Lee had lied about and bullied during their time together on the show—to have their moment to call him to account for his behavior. But the special, in another way, also squandered that important opportunity. It used its forum, in the end, to continue the attitude it has adopted toward Lee from the beginning: The show once again treated Lee’s views as spectacle. It once again confused racism for entertainment.
* * *
The Bachelor is a franchise that celebrates The Journey—not just as a narrative frame, but as a quest that is moral in its dimensions. Each season moves forward with a predictability that comes not just from its episodic structure (that first, tentative meet-cute; those early, getting-to-know-you conversations; the shared adventures; the meeting of the families; the having of the sex; the heady promises of Forever), but also from a conviction that life itself is work in progress. Lee’s appearance on The Men Tell All was an extension of that idea: Its stakes were framed according to Lee’s personal journey. The story here was Lee’s path from a place of ignorance to one of (relative—extremely relative) enlightenment. The show was called The Men Tell All; in practice, though, it was essentially One Man Learns Something.  
Reality television, in general, has a long history of this kind of thing: its platform, with its tantalizing mingling of truth and performance, offered up for rituals of redemption. The sinner, washed with the cleansing waters of attention. Dancing With the Stars has a storied tradition of inviting disgraced figures (Tom DeLay, Paula Deen, Gary Busey, and Ryan Lochte) to cha-cha their way to public forgiveness. (It’s rumored, and no surprise at all, that Sean Spicer is being considered for the show’s new season.) And this, too, is a Journey: As DWTS’s casting director, Deena Katz, told Slate of the show’s standard pattern, “Week 1, you acknowledge that this thing is what you’re known for. You say it, you come clean, and then it’s over. The elephant in the room is gone. Then you can control the narrative.”
Lee, too, controlled the narrative during his reappearance on The Bachelorette on Monday. He may have been roundly condemned for his tweets and general behavior on the show, but he also stole the show’s spotlight, again and again. This was The Lee Show. It was Lee occupying The Men Tell All’s (figurative, and literal) “hot seat.” The drama here largely revolved around Lee’s fellow contestants, many of them men of color, asking him for that simplest gesture of respect: They wanted Lee to admit that what he had tweeted was racist. And again, and again, Lee refused. Again and again, he took refuge in the two-word identity that he had listed in his Twitter bio—a phrase that might have been a tip-off to the show’s producers about his approach to the world: “pleasantly offensive.”
Again and again, Lee gave the producers the story that works so well for reality TV: He gave them a Journey.
He was just joking, he said, at first, of the tweets in question. (“I’m facetious. I make jokes when I’m uncomfortable in inappropriate times.”)
And then: He admitted that “I wasn’t as considerate as I could’ve been in a lot of ways.”
And then: “I understand where you’re coming from.”  
And then: “I feel like I have a lot to learn in that area. And I feel like I said things that I should not have said. And they were inconsiderate.”
And then: “I don’t—I, I don’t like racism at all. It bothers me morally. It bothers me inside. And I don’t like it.”
And then: “But also, I have to think about how I’m making you guys feel. You know, there are things that I can learn. There are things that a lot of people can learn.”
And then: “You know, if I hurt anybody, in any kind of way, with a bad joke, or anything like that, then I apologize.”
It went on like this: Lee, having chance after chance to admit that what he had put out into the world was more than “a bad joke”; Lee, after each opportunity, effectively declining. Lee, sticking to the talking points—there are things I can learn—while refusing to have a true conversation. Lee, Lee, Lee. (“It hurts a lot,” he said, at one point, apparently referring to the pain of being called out for being racist.)
The special, indeed, dedicated so much time to Lee’s Journey that, when he finally made a concession about the tweet that compared the NAACP to the KKK—“that tweet was racist, and I denounce it”—the show treated it as a kind of moral victory. The audience applauded. As Lee’s fellow contestant, Anthony Battle, who had earlier in the special called Lee out for “racist thoughts that are implicitly embedded in your mentality,” put it: “This is a growing experience for everybody.”
But it wasn’t, fully. It was a growing experience for Lee. And it was very barely that. “Where you go from here is up to you,” Chris Harrison, the show’s host and the moderator of this supposedly cleansing conversation, told Lee by way of conclusion. “And hopefully you lean on these guys and have that direction.”
“These guys,” though, owe nothing to Lee. Josiah Graham, the contestant who, as People summed it up, gave Lee “a history lesson” about the NAACP, owes him nothing. Kenny, who accepted a conciliatory hug from Lee at the end of one of their exchanges, owes him nothing. Viewers owe him nothing. And, certainly, Rachel Lindsay, whose “historic” season of The Bachelorette was hijacked by a man and his hatred, owes him nothing. “You turned it into something so ugly,” Rachel told Lee, when Harrison brought her out for her moment among the men. She added: “I didn’t want to give any life into you, your opinions, or your brief time on the show.”
She didn’t want to. “The show,” however, definitely did.
Upending the major-studio model of theatrical film releases is easier said than done. Even with streaming juggernauts like Netflix and Amazon muscling their way into the industry, there’s still really only one way to debut your movie nationwide in thousands of theaters, along with the kind of expensive marketing push needed to draw in audiences. And that’s with the help of a company like Warner Bros., 20th Century Fox, Disney, Universal, Paramount, or Sony, who have the apparatus necessary for such a rollout but demand the kind of creative control and marketing strategy that suits their bottom line.
It’s this system that supposedly drove the Oscar-winning director Steven Soderbergh (Traffic, Ocean’s Eleven, Erin Brockovich) away from making films for four years—in 2013, he announced Side Effects would be his last movie and that he was retiring from filmmaking. But after spending some time dabbling in TV with projects like Behind the Candelabra and The Knick, Soderbergh is back with a new heist comedy, Logan Lucky, and with it he’s trying to find a way around the big businesses that frustrated him so much in the past.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem
His strategy is fascinatingly laid out in a New York Times piece from Brooks Barnes about the production of Logan Lucky, a charming, shaggy caper about a West Virginia family (played by Channing Tatum, Adam Driver, and Riley Keough) who rob the Charlotte Motor Speedway with the help of an inveterate safe-cracker named Joe Bang (Daniel Craig). Due for release on August 18, the film is getting the kind of wide rollout usually reserved for big studio movies, but the manner of its production and its release could offer an intriguing model for the future.
Logan Lucky cost a relatively modest $29 million—thanks in part to Soderbergh’s allure as an Academy Award-winning filmmaker, which means the all-star cast was willing to work for scale rather than demand their normal salaries. Hollywood is increasingly shying away from making such smaller-budget movies, as multi-year franchises have become the financial norm for multi-national conglomerates looking to move the stock-market needle with each big release. But producing a film for $29 million is a lot easier than distributing it wide; the latter usually requires the participation of a major studio, to the chagrin of many artists like Soderbergh.
The director has previously noted his fury at the marketing of his 2002 sci-fi drama Solaris, a mid-budget film that was pitched to audiences as a steamy romance (a bizarre poster focused on stars George Clooney and Natascha McElhone mid-kiss). The film bombed. When Soderbergh announced his retirement in 2013, he said directors had been robbed of all the creative freedom they once enjoyed, in the name of profit. “It’s become absolutely horrible the way the people with the money decide they can fart in the kitchen, to put it bluntly,” he said.
Had Soderbergh gone to a major studio with Logan Lucky, it would have exercised total control over marketing (spending an additional tens of millions of dollars) in exchange for 15 percent of ticket sales and all other expenses, with any remaining profits going to the film’s owners. Instead, Soderbergh raised $20 million in marketing money by selling the movie’s non-theatrical rights (Amazon bought the streaming rights), then cut a deal with the smaller distributor Bleecker Street Media to market the film for only $1 million in exchange for a much smaller slice of profits.
This means Logan Lucky doesn’t have to aim for the kind of inflated opening weekends that major studios crave, which require an intense promotional blitz and a fairly homogenous, and costly, creative strategy. Soderbergh created the film’s trailer himself and never tested it with audiences (usually, trailers are created by marketing firms and intensely focused-grouped). He has also concentrated billboard advertising in the South and Midwest, where he thinks the movie could have mass appeal (usually, advertising is centered on the country’s biggest cities).
It’s a fascinating effort worthy of a director who has worked in every level of the industry, making pricy star vehicles like Ocean’s Eleven and tiny experimental features like 2005’s Bubble, which was released in theaters and on television simultaneously (years before Netflix adopted a similar strategy). Soderbergh’s approach does away with the need for massive grosses—a modest $15 million opening weekend, which would usually be seen as disappointing for most wide releases, is more than enough (according to the Times’s reporting) to satisfy everyone’s financial commitments in the case of Logan Lucky.
Of course, Soderbergh has the advantage of being a director who can recruit big names to his movies without much fuss. But he’s also the kind of figure who seems less and less welcome in Hollywood these days—a director who demands creative control and has the experience needed to resist pressure from executives. Studios appear to be growing wary of this approach: Warner Bros. reportedly doesn’t want to work with “auteur” directors who demand final cuts of their films anymore, except for proven profit-makers Christopher Nolan and Clint Eastwood. Meanwhile, Disney keeps running into problems with the creators of its franchise entries, with Gareth Edwards’s Rogue One being subject to major reshoots and Philip Lord and Christopher Miller being fired from the upcoming Han Solo movie for not agreeing with producer Kathleen Kennedy’s vision of the film.
Netflix has, in recent years, presented itself as the most attractive option for great directors requiring full creative control. Martin Scorsese—about as well-regarded a director as Hollywood has—took his gangster film The Irishman to Netflix, since studios apparently balked at its $100 million-plus budget. But Netflix has yet to prove that its streaming model is remotely profitable. Recent figures put the company at $20 billion in long-term debt, and Netflix expects to continue to deficit spend in the short term. Investors don’t care right now—it’s the same spend-money-to-make-money model that made Amazon such a success—but it’s a bubble that could still burst down the road.
Soderbergh’s strategy is more focused on immediate profitability for everyone involved, and if it works, it could be something moviegoers see more of as directors grow frustrated with the strictures of the studio system. As television has expanded its reach and theater-ticket sales have plateaued, the mid-budget movie has dwindled in recent years. Logan Lucky is the kind of film that used to be Hollywood’s bread and butter, and with Soderbergh’s help, it could be again.
Within days of the release of 13 Reasons Why, Netflix’s teen-oriented drama about a high-school student who takes her own life, the show was being loudly criticized by suicide-prevention experts, who were concerned it could lead to a suicide-contagion effect and a spate of copycat attempts. Now, research published at the end of July argues that those concerns may have been founded. Google queries about suicide rose by almost 20 percent in 19 days after the show came out, representing between 900,000 and 1.5 million more searches than usual regarding the subject.
The study, published at JAMA Internal Medicine, used Google Trends to monitor certain search terms regarding the subject of suicide, like “how to commit suicide,” “suicide hotline number,” and “teen suicide.” Seventeen out of the top 20 searches were significantly elevated, and the biggest increases came with terms related to suicidal thoughts and ideation, like “how to kill yourself.” The time period for searches ended on April 18 to preclude the suicide of the former NFL player Aaron Hernandez, which could have influenced data, and any searches related to the movie Suicide Squad were discounted.
What Went Wrong With 13 Reasons Why?
The study’s authors write that it’s unclear whether an increase in searches regarding suicide meant an increase in actual suicide attempts, although they note that there’s typically a correlation between the two, and that “searches for precise suicide methods increased after the series’ release.” Their analyses, the authors concluded, “suggest 13 Reasons Why, in its present form, has both increased suicide awareness while unintentionally increasing suicidal ideation.”
The study, while troubling, is not entirely surprising. In May, I examined how 13 Reasons Why managed to break virtually every rule that exists when it comes to portraying suicide, featuring a graphic, prolonged scene of the main character’s death in the final episode and glamorizing it as a force for positive change in her community. One of the biggest concerns among psychologists and educators was that the show might spark a contagion effect, where increased coverage of suicide in the media leads to a related increase in suicide attempts. Netflix doesn’t release data regarding its viewing figures, but the wide discussion of the show on social media (it became the most-tweeted about show of 2017) implies that a significant number of people watched it, particularly teenagers. The rush to produce a follow-up season (currently being filmed and scheduled for a 2018 release) indicates the show has been a big hit for the streaming service.
The question is whether this particular study, or any of the allegations that the show directly led to copycat suicides and suicide attempts, will be enough of an impetus for the show’s producers to respond. The study’s authors suggest that editing out the scene of Hannah Baker’s suicide from the show and adding information about suicide hotlines to episodes could immediately minimize some of 13 Reasons Why’s “deleterious effects.” Netflix’s response to the study, though, indicated no such moves would be forthcoming. “We always believed this show would increase discussion around this tough subject matter,” the company said in a statement. “This is an interesting quasi-experimental study that confirms this. We are looking forward to more research and taking everything we learn to heart as we prepare for Season 2.” Netflix declined interview requests from The Atlantic regarding the show.
What the study does show is that art and entertainment have real power, and that as patterns of media consumption change, directors and producers don’t have the luxury of imagining their work in a vacuum. When television shows can be consumed instantaneously by Netflix’s 100 million subscribers, they can also have an immediate impact on public health, particularly when they’re targeting teenage viewers. An editorial published at JAMA commenting on the study stated that teens are particularly vulnerable when it comes to binge viewing. “This immersion into the story and images may have a particularly strong effect on adolescents,” it argued, “whose brains are still developing the ability to inhibit certain emotions, desires, and actions.”
Netflix and the producers of 13 Reasons Why, who reportedly disregarded advice from mental-health experts not to release the first season, have repeatedly claimed that the show is raising awareness around the subject of suicide, banishing stigmas, and leading to more discussion of a sensitive topic. But as this study implies, focusing public attention on suicide without taking recommended efforts to minimize harm can be counterproductive, and even dangerous. Dr. Dan Reidenberg, the executive director of Suicide Awareness Voices of Education, told me in May that he disagreed with the argument that simply broaching the topic in popular culture is enough. “It has definitely started a conversation about suicide,” he said, “but it hasn’t been the right one.”

When Zinzi Clemmons was a graduate student at Columbia, at work on her MFA, her mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. Clemmons had been writing a novel with a more or less linear narrative structure. She moved back home to Philadelphia and kept writing, but differently now, taking notes and collecting fragments of text as she cared for her mother. “The only time and energy I could muster resulted in that very short form,” she said recently. “I just ended up keeping those pieces and stitching them together, and a fictional narrative arose.” The novel she had been working on no longer felt worth her while; she’d been trying to use it, she said, to “avoid what was going on with my mom.”
The new novel that emerged, What We Lose, is a startling, poignant debut, released to no shortage of fanfare (Vogue called it “the debut novel of the year”). It tells a story based loosely on the author’s own. The protagonist is Thandi, who, like Clemmons herself, is the daughter of a “coloured” South African mother and an African American father. Thandi, like Clemmons, was raised in a wealthy, mostly white suburb of Philadelphia. Thandi’s self-proclaimed status as a “strange in-betweener”—she has “light skin and foreign roots,” and feels neither fully black American nor fully African—is a defining preoccupation of her young adulthood. Her relationship with her mother is loving but difficult. And in the wake of her death, as Thandi unexpectedly confronts the possibility of becoming a parent herself, she struggles to come to terms with what her mother’s life was, and what hers should be.
The Story of a Revolution, Told in Real Time
The arc sounds conventional enough, distinctive though the specifics may be. The book’s force comes as much from its form as from its content. Clemmons has been an outspoken proponent of experimental fiction and a critic of the ways in which the category is often presented as distinct from “black writing.” “To be denied status as an innovator based on race is terrifying,” Clemmons wrote in a 2016 essay entitled “Where Is Our Black Avant Garde?” Her own experiment, an exercise in autofiction, is anything but linear. Instead, it’s composed of fragments: single paragraphs and sentences, as well as more conventional chapters, of first-person narration by Thandi; photos of public figures; academic blog posts; rap lyrics; an email. After writing a draft, Clemmons printed the manuscript, then laid all its pages out on the floor and rearranged them, disrupting continuity and chronological order.
The resulting collage pulls you in and propels you onward, if not always forward, inviting you into Thandi’s world and her mind, which are both somewhat perplexing places. “In the weeks after my mother died,” she says, “my sex drive was merciless.” She occasionally thinks in mathematical terms and includes hand-drawn graphs charting emotion as a function of time. (“Death and pleasure we experience asymptotically,” she muses.) She dreams of her mother often, not always happily.
Her mother’s own complex in-betweenness collided with Thandi’s well before she fell ill.  Unashamed of her origins in a family of “middle-to upper-class coloureds—mixed race, not black” and condescending toward American blacks, she infuriated a daughter unafraid to challenge her. “Weren’t we all sisters?” Thandi wondered in the face of her mother’s “racist views” of darker-skinned women. Her mother had no time for such alliances. “That’s just how it is,” she replied. Her imminent death, and then absence, adds urgency to Thandi’s need to think for herself about race, family, and suffering—and the limits of sisterhood and solidarity.
Even as she watches her mother deteriorate and does her best to care for her, Thandi also looks away, trying to make sense of a bigger picture. She feels conflicted about what she sees as cancer’s aura of privilege: “Dirty and inconvenient, AIDS was a disease of the people, I thought. Cancer, to me, was the opposite. Its cause was endorsed and healthily sponsored.” The notion makes her “extremely uncomfortable,” Thandi says. She can’t shake the feeling, as her mother’s health declines, that “As much as she suffered, many other people were suffering worse.” Here, and elsewhere, Clemmons leaves readers to puzzle over the guilt that lies at the heart of Thandi’s search for self.
Thandi is trying to answer a big question that has become familiar to readers of a certain kind of fiction in recent years. Sheila Heti put it most clearly in the title of her memoiristic 2010 novel, How Should a Person Be? Clemmons’s novel features another in a line of mostly young women for whom the quest for identity presents itself as a dilemma of authenticity, a challenge to make meaning in the face of existential drift and pain. How should a mother be?, this novel asks. How should a daughter be? How should a person mourn? How should a South-African-American woman honor her inheritance, and transcend it?
Clemmons’s collage offers a prismatic portrait of that search for authenticity. Thandi thinks about Kevin Carter, the Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer known for his “Starving Child and Vulture.” “Haunted by the vivid memories of killings & corpses & anger & pain,” he wrote, Carter took his own life. She reflects on the allegations of fraud and murder surrounding Winnie Mandela, who “bore a strong physical resemblance to my mother.” Ann Dunham, Barack Obama’s late mother, makes an appearance, too, in a scene in which Thandi pictures her responding to his victory in 2008. Dunham is “looking on from whatever heaven she’s chosen, utterly surprised, satisfied beyond comprehension. This is the orphan’s ultimate fantasy.”
The sentiment verges on the maudlin, and some of the fragments have a too predictably iconic feel about them. Yet Thandi herself is well aware that no fantasy awaits her, that her tour of public reckonings yields no clear lessons. Clemmons’s unusual exploration of filial grief occasionally feels like an evasion of grief. At the same time, Thandi’s odyssey is shot through with genuine sadness. Mourning evades prescriptions, this book reminds us. “I have only persisted,” Thandi says. She manages to do that not because she thinks she should, but because she finds she can.
Sam Shepard was a titan of American theater whose darkly funny, sometimes surreal, and often frightening evocations of the fringes of American life formed the backbone of a storied career as a writer and actor. He died last Thursday at his home in Kentucky at the age of 73 of complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, according to a spokesman for the family. Shepard is best remembered for writing plays like the Pulitzer Prize-winning Buried Child, True West, and Fool for Love, as well as a film career that included acclaimed performances in The Right Stuff, Days of Heaven, Black Hawk Down, and dozens more.
Born in Fort Sheridan, Illinois, in 1943, Shepard worked on a ranch in his teenage years and attended high school in California, later dropping out of college to join a touring group called The Bishop’s Company Repertory Players. He quickly found himself in New York’s thriving Off-Off-Broadway scene in the early ’60s, when it was a hive of experimentation, psychedelia, and exciting young talent. He won several Obie Awards (given to non-Broadway theater in New York) and quickly distinguished himself as a major voice, writing screenplays for art films like Michelangelo Antonioni’s Zabriskie Point and collaborating with artists like Bob Dylan and Patti Smith (with whom he was romantically involved, a relationship he fictionalized in the play Cowboy Mouth).
Netflix's Plodding Bloodline Promises Drama, Eventually
In the ’70s, he created some of his best-remembered theatrical works, including the “Family Trilogy”—composed of Curse of the Starving Class (1977), Buried Child (1978), and True West (1980)—which is considered by many critics to be his greatest achievement. Curse followed the run-down Tate family, reckoning with alcoholism and the dilapidation of their farm. Buried Child was also set on a ruined farm, following a broken family confronting a dark incident in their past, while True West centered on rival siblings trying to write a screenplay together, reckoning with the authenticity of America’s past versus the Hollywood versions of it.
Buried Child, which won the Pulitzer, transformed Shepard’s career—he went from being an Off-Broadway favorite to a legend of American playwriting, one whose works are still revived in theaters around the world. His theatrical output remained prolific after the ’70s; in all, he wrote 44 plays, with some of his best-known later works including Fool For Love (1983), A Lie of the Mind (1985), Simpatico (1994), The God of Hell (2004), and Kicking a Dead Horse (2007). Shepard’s plays were often marked by small casts, an emphasis on unflinching dialogue, and a slightly absurd bent, with some element of unreality invading the otherwise grim decay of the post-industrial American West.
In 1978, Shepard was also cast in his first major film role, playing The Farmer in Terrence Malick’s elegiac Days of Heaven, another portrait of American pioneer culture (this one set in 1916). Malick leveraged Shepard’s movie-star looks to create a threatening, imposing vision of America’s future land barons, the actual villains—and gods—of the developing west. Shepard’s best-known film performance came a few years later in Philip Kaufman’s The Right Stuff, where he played the real-life test pilot Chuck Yeager and was nominated for his only Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
But Shepard was a consistent presence in Hollywood, lending gravitas, his rugged looks, and a wonderful, gravelly voice to countless roles, some of them perfunctory (he played a lot of military men) and others delightfully unconventional. In another era, he might have been Gary Cooper reincarnated, a steely symbol of American grit, but Shepard could never resist the darker sides of those myths, fleshing them out in the many plays, films, and novels he wrote over the years.
Shepard’s best film script was Paris, Texas (1984), a loose adaptation of his book Motel Chronicles that he developed with the director Wim Wenders and co-wrote with L. M. Kit Carson. That was the movie that came closest to evoking the wild spirit of Shepard’s playwriting, following a mute amnesiac (Harry Dean Stanton) who wanders the South Texas desert and eventually reconnects with his estranged brother (Dean Stockwell), young son, and mysterious former love (Nastassja Kinski). It won the Palme D’Or at the 1984 Cannes Film Festival; Shepard and Wenders would reunite in 2005 for another, less-acclaimed film project, Don’t Come Knocking, this time starring Shepard.
In his later years, Shepard mostly contributed supporting performances on-screen; his last major work was in the Netflix TV show Bloodline, where he played the patriarch of a rich Florida family that descends into recrimination and murder. He married the actress O-Lan Jones (with whom he had a son, Jesse) in 1969 and they divorced in 1984; he also had a long relationship with the actress Jessica Lange, who he met on the set of the film Frances in 1982. They never married, but had two children (Hannah and Samuel), and eventually separated in 2009. He is also survived by his sisters Sandy and Roxanne Rogers.
Warning: Spoilers ahead through Season 7, Episode 3 of Game of Thrones.
“Your daughter will die here in this cell,” the one mother, Cersei, informs Ellaria, the other. “And you will be here watching when she does. You will be here for the rest of your days .... You will live to watch your daughter rot, to watch that beautiful face collapse to bone and dust. All the while contemplating the choices you’ve made.”
Tyene, murdered—with agonizing slowness—before her mother’s eyes: It’s yet another circular story in an episode (and, indeed, a show) that is full of them. Here is Cersei, getting her revenge for the death of her daughter by forcing the woman who murdered Myrcella to endure roughly the same fate Cersei had: the loss of a child. The grief that comes with knowing that a beloved daughter will never grow up to have a full life. Cersei, she notes to her prisoner, could punish Ellaria in any number of physically excruciating ways—and yet she chooses, cunningly and tellingly, the way that forces Ellaria to know her own pain: Ellaria, it seems, will watch Tyene die. The mother will be made, Cersei says, to keep company with the daughter’s decomposing corpse. Ellaria’s punishment will come in the living, rather than the dying.
Game of Thrones: All the Queens’ Men
It’s a revenge that, even for Game of Thrones, is particularly horrifying, and particularly cruel. But the murders in question, the death of the one daughter avenged by the apparent death of the other, have something in common: The horror starts, in both cases, with a poison kiss.
Poison, in Game of Thrones as in the world beyond it, is traditionally a weapon of last resort. It is calculating. It is deliberate. It reveals itself not on the battlefield, but in the background. And it is used, generally, not for crimes of passion, but rather for killings that are planned, patiently, over time. Poison is a tool of asymmetric warfare—one that is used, often, when the other side is unaware that there is a war being fought in the first place. A little bit science, a little bit magic, it is deployed, in general, by those who have no other choice.
Which is to say that, in pop cultural stereotype if not in practice, poison is often considered a weapon of women. As that ancient adage goes, “Trust none of the dishes at dinner: Those pies are steaming-black with the poison Mummy put there.” As that Dixie Chicks song demurs, “Those black-eyed peas, they tasted alright to me, Earl.” In England, the House of Lords tried to pass a law forbidding women to buy arsenic. The attempt was made in the 19th century—and yet the thinking that led to it persists today. It’s not that boy, after all—miss her, kiss her, love her—who is poison.
Game of Thrones has, over its six-plus seasons, both embraced and complicated that stereotype. On the one hand, poison, true to its cultural resonances, has been a favorite weapon of the show’s women: characters who are often relatively powerless, characters who are often relatively desperate. Ellaria used poison—delivered via, yes, that deadly kiss—to murder Myrcella. Arya used poison to kill the Freys and their confederates: a mass murder executed with ease, with the help of poisoned wine. Lysa Arryn used a similar tactic (wine, laced with toxin) to kill her husband Jon. Olenna, the Tyrell matriarch confirmed on Sunday, used poison to kill Joffrey at his wedding. And the Sand Snakes, the daughters of Oberyn, were distinguished in Game of Thrones not merely according to their signature weapons, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle-style, but also through their affinity for weaponized venom. Snakes, and all that.
“I heard it said that poison is a woman’s weapon,” Ned Stark tells Maester Pycelle, at the outset of Game of Thrones. “Yes,” Pycelle replies. “Women, cravens ... and eunuchs.”
As the show has advanced, though, it has complicated that blandly gendered idea, considering poison not just in relation to gender politics, but also in relation to power politics more broadly. The Sand Snakes picked up their toxin-appreciation, after all, from their swaggering father. “Any man who calls a poison ‘a woman’s weapon’ is a traitor to his fellow men,” Oberyn declares. “A dagger, arrow, axe. These are the arms of passion. But poison is cold, calculating. Poison is the thought that wakes you in the morning, and lulls you to sleep at night. You watch your victim die a thousand times before you ever offer him that fateful taste. Is a man’s hate so inferior to a woman’s that we are to be denied such a weapon?”
Poison, in this sense, is an equal-opportunity weapon—the tool not of the woman, but of the vigilante. It is used by those who have given up on (or who, indeed, never believed in) a communal notion of justice. In a show that is deeply interested in the morality of killing—a show in whose moral universe the how of a death matters as much as the fact of it—poison is the refuge of the rogue. It stands in contrast to the state-sanctioned killings that are often enacted reluctantly, but for a broader purpose (as when Ned Stark executes Will, the deserter of the Night’s Watch, or when Daenerys executes Mossador, her erstwhile advisor, for his own failure to respect the queen’s version of justice). Maester Pycelle may have been right—poison may be, often, used by women—but more to the point it is used by those who have decided to operate beyond the sanction of their societies. To kill someone with poison is to reject the rule of law.
It’s an attitude that gets a new twist in “The Queen’s Justice,” an episode that is bookended with poisonings. In many ways, the apparent death of Olenna Tyrell at the hands of Jaime Lannister was the opposite of the seeming death of Tyene Sand at the hands of Cersei: Olenna will (ostensibly) die alone, while Tyene will (ostensibly) die in the company of her mother. Olenna voluntarily—almost eagerly—gulps the poisoned wine Jaime had given to her, after he assures her that her death under its influence will be quick and relatively painless. Olenna’s demise is, technically, suicide; Tyene’s is, technically, murder.
And yet both poisonings suggest a kind of karmic circularity: Tyene is killed with the same toxin Ellaria used to kill Myrcella. Olenna is killed in roughly the same way that, it turns out, she killed Joffrey. Olenna, alone in her tower bedroom, might have been vanquished. She may have been out of choices. And yet her death comes, remarkably, on her own terms. She drinks the poison. And Jaime allows her that small bit of human dignity afforded to those in Game of Thrones who are killed not out of vengeance, but out of justice: Olenna gets to utter last words.
And those words are, fittingly, poisonous. “I’d hate to die like your son,” Olenna says, coolly, “clawing at my neck, foam and bile spilling from my mouth, eyes blood-red, skin purple. Must have been horrible for you, as King’s guard, as a father. It was horrible for me, a shocking thing.” She pauses, to let her words’ full effect sink in. “Not at all what I intended.”
You could read Olenna’s speech as an act of atonement: an admission of guilt uttered while she is still able to make the admission. But Olenna, of course, does not seem sorry. She seems gleeful. She seems like someone who is using her final moments to enable one last act of vengeance against the woman who has won the battle, but not yet the war. “Tell Cersei—I want her to know it was me,” the Tyrell matriarch tells Jaime. She seems to understand that vengeance is its own kind of poison. And she seems to understand that words, like toxins, can be their own kind of weapons.
Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, Lenika Cruz, David Sims, and Spencer Kornhaber will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Lenika Cruz: Three episodes into this season, I’m still getting used to just how much more quickly things are unfolding on Game of Thrones in this final stretch. This week, “The Queen’s Justice” gave us plenty of major plot developments: Dany and Jon met! Jorah was cured! Bran and Sansa reunited! The Unsullied took Casterly Rock! The Lannisters took Highgarden! Lady Olenna was executed! Dorne is done! Euron is the worst! A lot of exclamation points, I know, but most of those moments were genuinely Big Deals that collectively struck a nice balance of being either a really long time coming or effective surprises.
Game of Thrones: A Wolf in Wolf's Clothing
The show wisely started out with that momentous meeting of ice and fire that’s long been essential to the mythology of the series: Daenerys and Jon coming face to face for the first time at Dragonstone. That entire first scene got a chance to truly breathe, giving Daenerys and Jon the space to introduce themselves, to feel each other out, to clash a little. We’ve spent six full seasons with each of these characters; we know them and what they’ve seen, overcome, and learned. We even know that they’re blood relatives.
But they don’t know each other. So I thought the writers did an artful job of conjuring up an authentic-feeling meeting between the King of the North and the Rightful Queen of the Seven Kingdoms that didn’t just offer a recap of their lives thus far. Not only that, but the writers also painted a compelling portrait of two leaders who are slowly learning to inhabit their respective, relatively new roles, with the full weight of several concurrent battles and centuries of messy history bearing down on them. (Amid the seriousness of the occasion, Ser Davos’s “This is Jon Snow” was a perfect little joke; where to even begin with a man who went from being a bastard to a resurrected messiah? The warm greeting between Jon and Tyrion also reminded me of Ned and King Robert’s first exchange back in the pilot. ) Dany and Jon’s first negotiation even ended with a concrete concession, thanks to Tyrion’s help: Dany setting aside her desire for Jon to pledge fealty to her and allowing him to mine as much dragonglass as he needs.
Of course, Dany continued to be the more clear-headed of the two queens vying for the Iron Throne, but judging by appearances, Cersei is the one who’s, in a word, winning. Dany’s still noble-minded, clever, and eager to distinguish herself from her Mad King father—but all it’s done so far is cost her some key early fights and all three of her Westerosi allies. Cersei, on the other hand, is enjoying calm in King’s Landing and even got to mete out the queen’s justice to two of her biggest enemies: Ellaria and Tyene Sand, and Lady Olenna Tyrell, the women responsible for killing two of her children. (Random note: With Ellaria and Tyene’s fates apparently sealed, I’m hard-pressed to think of many, or any, living mother-child pairings on Game of Thrones, outside of Gilly and little Sam.) I worry the latest strategic misfire at Casterly Rock—also concocted by Tyrion—will lead Dany to question her Hand’s judgment, though who could really blame her?
With more liberties being taken with the “how” of the plot in order to hurry things along (the miraculously speedy rebuilding of the entire Iron Fleet being a big one), it was reassuring to see Game of Thrones take time to address some of the logistics of the various conflicts: the Iron Bank of Braavos nudging Cersei about the crown’s debt, Sansa questioning her advisers about Winterfell’s food stores and cold-weather preparedness. There were sequences that I feared would be perhaps too economical: I couldn’t have been the only person who thought, as the end of the episode drew nearer, that the show might save the Casterly Rock battle for next week—and then that it might save the Highgarden battle, ending on a shot of Lady Olenna appraising the armies at her gate before cutting to the solemn strains of “The Rains of Castamere.” But Game of Thrones, fortunately, seems to be saving its energy (and budget) for the battles that really matter.
I have to mention, real quick, the latest Stark-sibling homecoming, which thanks to Sophie Turner’s performance was moving, even if it didn’t quite have the resonance of the Jon-Sansa reunion. Part of me wanted Bran to be a bit more excited to see his older sister, but I’ll allow that spending a couple seasons inside a tree—seeing across time and space, unearthing the secrets of the realm, and witnessing the annihilation of mankind creep ever closer—doesn’t do wonders for one’s social skills. Hence Bran’s unnecessarily obtuse explanation to Sansa of what the Three-Eyed Raven is or does, along with his creepily tone-deaf references to her traumatic wedding night (Bran. Buddy. Seriously).
But much like the maesters at the Citadel in Oldtown, Bran is yet another force operating with no regard for the political chess board of Westeros; while Dany and Jon debate titles and oaths and birthright, Bran acknowledges he’ll “never be lord of anything.” If his mien is odd, it’s because he’s on a completely different frequency—psychic and emotional—than almost everyone else in the Seven Kingdoms: He’s the only person alive who understands the White Walker threat even better than Jon does. I, for one, am ready to finally see Bran’s years of power-honing (and the deaths of Hodor and Summer and Rickon and Jojen and Osha that got him to this point) pay off in the larger storylines.
There are at least a million other things to delve into, David and Spencer, so I’ll let you two have at it. How glorious and cold was Lady Olenna’s final scene (I’ll miss you, Dame Diana Rigg)? What did you make of Melisandre’s farewell and her cryptic predictions to Varys? Are you as tired of Euron’s efforts to be the “New Ramsay” as I am? And what do you think Littlefinger is trying to do with Sansa, other than seeding paranoia in a woman who is clearly coming into her own as an assured leader (“Fight every battle everywhere, always, in your mind. Everyone is your enemy, everyone is your friend,” might be one of the more Baelish-ian things he’s said in a while)?
David Sims: After the slightly ponderous opening to the season, I was utterly delighted by this episode, one that I felt had a real respect for the years we’ve all put into these characters and this wonderfully convoluted world. Things are definitely moving quickly now, but I think you’re correct to identify a lot of these battles (like the hollow victories of Daenerys and Cersei’s armies) as being less important than they might seem. “The Queen’s Justice” devoted most of its running time to the things that really matter. Jon seeing one of Daenerys’s dragons, Jaime learning of Olenna’s murderous scheming, even Cersei’s out-loud reckoning with the loss of her daughter—those were the star moments from this episode for me, and I thought the creators David Benioff and D.B. Weiss nailed them all.
Especially the sight of that dragon. As our story heads toward the final showdown, the speed with which everyone’s traveling around Westeros has become a little alarming, and it would be easy to ignore the sheer weight of some of these big meetings just to keep the plot moving. But I loved how important Jon and Daenerys’s first summit was and how the episode gave it the proper amount of build-up. Talk of dragons aside, no one alive in Westeros has ever seen one of the mythical beasts. When Drogon swooped over the heads of the Northern visitors as they walked to Dragonstone, Jon and Davos hit the deck—as well they should. These beasts are terrifying to behold, and their sheer existence remains the crux of Daenerys’s claim to the throne.
Which is why I also loved the politicking between Jon and Daenerys once he finally made it to her throne room and was read her long list of regnal names. For all Dany’s accomplishments, her power in Westeros remains purely theoretical, and her presentation came off partly as flimsy posturing, so quickly undercut by Davos’s plain introduction of Jon. But when she stepped off the throne and unfurled her personal narrative, her resolute will in the face of untold challenges, it was easy to see Jon getting ever-so-slightly swayed by her, as so many have before. Rather than have the connection be instant, Benioff and Weiss let it develop slowly through the episode (encouraged, of course, by Tyrion). But it’s undoubtedly there—and Daenerys doesn’t even yet know that Jon is her nephew.
Another realization, concerning Jaime’s relationship with Cersei, is taking a similarly long time to build up, but trust me, it’s coming. The episode saw Cersei having sex with her brother and openly parading their relationship in front of her attendants, but his investment in their union continues to feel tenuous. His argument to Olenna Tyrell for Cersei was clunky and unconvincing: Simply, that all this chaos would somehow lead to a long reign of peace and prosperity, which would be enough to forgive all her monstrous deeds. That’s a long line of bad credit for Cersei to run up—remember, her war cabinet right now consists of Euron Greyjoy, a mad scientist, and a silent zombie—and that’s before she’s tried to engage in open warfare against three dragons.
The idea of Cersei reigning over anything but a severely diminished kingdom in open rebellion is a tough sell, and Jaime knows it—he remains an excellent tactician who did a great job evacuating Casterly Rock and setting up shop in the better-located Highgarden. But he still doesn’t fully seem to accept Olenna’s warning of just how monstrous his sister has become, dutifully poisoning her on Cersei’s orders and finally learning the truth of who really killed his son Joffrey (what a tremendously played final scene by Diana Rigg). There’s a reason everyone is trying to dismantle his family line, root and branch, and I still believe Jaime’s going to come around to that and return to his Kingslayer days (only, this time, acting as a Queenslayer).
But for now, Cersei remains a victor, coming out on top of another military engagement, keeping the Iron Bank of Braavos from calling in Lannister debts, and even putting off the possibility of marriage to Euron (for now). But last time I checked, being on top in the middle of a season of Game of Thrones was practically a death warrant: Think of Robb Stark, Tywin Lannister, or the High Sparrow. Cersei’s doing her best to scheme, but every alliance she’s built is founded either on fear or bribery, and those are the kinds of alliances that will quickly collapse in the face of dragons and White Walkers. She’s not playing the long game, and she never has, but it is wonderful for now to watch Lena Heady sink her teeth into Cersei-as-Queen.
Her scene with Ellaria and the remaining Sand Snake was particularly powerful, not for the nastiness she unleashed on her captives, but for her reflection on the loss of Myrcella, the moment where her decline into utter heartlessness really began. Cersei’s parenting concepts have always been a little askew, but her connection to her children has always felt intense and real, the only thing (along with Jaime) that really tethers her to the world. With Dorne toppled, only Tyrion remains in her vengeful sights, and after that, there’ll be nowhere to firmly direct her wrath, given that the person responsible for Tommen’s death is ... Cersei Lannister. The Queen might have won the battles this episode, but I don’t think she or Jaime really know what she’s fighting for at this point.
Spencer Kornhaber: The final few minutes of this Thrones episode had me flashing back to some of the great strategy titles of computer-game history—Warcraft II and its ilk. What geek hasn’t found themselves in the situation that Daenerys now does? You think you’re so clever by sending your forces to pick off what you believe to be a vulnerable stronghold, but it’s the wrong bet. Suddenly your trusty squad of paladins—think of them as Highgarden knights—is just a mess of red pixels and dying sounds. At least Olenna eagerly chugging poison and confessing to regicide made for a more poetic cutscene than anything I’ve seen from Blizzard Entertainment.
I bring up games because they provide the sort of thrill—substantial but also fleeting, transactional—that much of this season has delivered. After all, the buzz of a really good bishop-takes-rook moment has its limits. Moreover, even a TV show as complicated as this one can’t fully pull off the logically consistent intricacy of chess or Civilization. It seems Thrones understands that fact, though. Littlefinger’s spiel about seeing every eventuality before it happens wasn’t just him making time for some game theory; it was a wink at viewers who have already diagrammed out every turn that Thrones’s plot can take. So, as you both noted, Benioff and Weiss have been smart to emphasize the emotional nuances of the dialogue scenes rather than the drama of the war. Fundamentally, the advantage a years-running TV show has over any other medium is in the depth of the viewer’s knowledge of its characters.
Which brings me to why something felt strange about the Camp Dragonstone Summit. Daenerys and Jon at first seemed to be talking past each other, no? He inexplicably acted like she had any clue what the army of the dead was, and she inexplicably acted like there’s credibility to the Starks’ ancient pledge to House Targaryen. As Cersei astutely put it elsewhere in the episode, Dany styles herself as more of a revolutionary than a monarch—so what’s with the sudden obsession with bloodline and hierarchy? True, Dany’s hardline stance may be part of a negotiating tactic, and the source of Jon’s palpable anxiety in this episode was well-explained. But it’s hard not to suspect that tensions are running so high now simply for entertainment reasons: It will be all the more more satisfying to see the eventual alliance form.
A more convincing, yet much harder to watch, riff on longstanding character dynamics came from Cersei’s torture of the Dornish. The sight of Euron dragging Ellaria and her daughter through King’s Landing filled me with deep dread for a few reasons, prime among them the knowledge that a scene of Cersei’s sadism was surely nigh. The queen took her time explaining the levels of horror in her retribution against Ellaria, but one bit of awfulness still went unmentioned: It was the Mountain who initially fueled the blood feud between the Lannisters and the Martells by raping Oberyn’s sister and killing her children. The mere thought of him now having his way with Ellaria or Tyene is hideous, as is, of course, Cersei consigning a daughter to gradually die in front of her mother. One tiny spot of hope—Lady Lannister’s desire for slow vengeance means there’s a chance her two resourceful victims might find a way out.
Then again, Cersei isn’t making mistakes lately, at least judging by her string of military victories. Perhaps her success owes to the fact that she doesn’t bother with moral issues, unlike with Dany and her avoidance of civilian death. Perhaps she’s winning because she keeps her eye on concrete logistical matters such as the crown’s debt to Braavos, just as Sansa now has developed a keen eye for the practical details of ruling Winterfell. Perhaps Cersei's secret is that the great Bronn is back and fighting for her. Or perhaps she is, as David suggested, simply enjoying a short spell of good luck. Flaunting her relationship with Jaime is one level of hubris—but having handmaids stylized to look just like her, Dr. Evil-and-Mini-Me style, is an even greater sign of pride that might come before a fall.
Though the hour ended in a series of battles, it also featured the unusual-for-Thrones suggestion that the endgame for these characters is world peace. Dany insisted that only with a Targaryen on the throne and a Stark as Warden of the North could a golden age of stability return. Jaime justified Cersei’s monstrousness by saying it would eventually lead to an orderly society. But Tyrion, in discussing the White Walkers with Jon, summed up the larger obstacle to progress and harmony for humankind in this show and elsewhere: “People’s minds aren’t made for problems that are that large” (Game of Thrones-is-about-climate-change fodder—drink!).
That Tyrion line reads even more cuttingly in light of all the people claiming to be all-knowing throughout this episode. Bran tried to inform Sansa that he could see the entirety of history; Littlefinger tried to lecture her that she needed to try to see the entirety of the future. Melisandre unsettled Varys with a pronouncement that the two of them, both foreigners, would die in Westeros. Olenna made a marvelous display of seeming unsurprised by the sudden sacking of her city. And Sam aced his experimental medical procedure simply by reading up on instructions that had been available all along.
It’s all a reminder: This is a world of powerful prophecy, deep lore, and mystical cycles. Which makes the unsureness and debate we saw tonight from Jon, Tyrion, and Dany intriguing. As we near closer to the end of the saga, will these characters seem to be writing their own stories? Or will they just come off as peons and footmen, ordered around the map by an unseen game player?
The Incredible Jessica James, which debuted Friday on Netflix, has a title that feels better suited to a Marvel drama than a romantic comedy. And Jessica (Jessica Williams) would make an extremely compelling superhero, endowed as she is with mighty powers of snark, bravado, and withering disdain. Within the movie’s spry 85 minutes, she vanquishes a manspreader on the subway with barely the tilt of an eyebrow, crushes an ex with a piano (in a dream sequence, but even so), and reduces a Tinder date to a puddle of shame and self-loathing. (“I would literally rather have my period nonstop for a thousand years than have this portion of the conversation,” is one of her gentler comebacks.)
In the hands of a less charismatic actress, Jessica could easily be intolerable. But Williams, the 27-year-old former Daily Show correspondent and co-host of the podcast 2 Dope Queens, is so charming that she elevates a perfectly predictable rom-com into a blast. Written and directed by James C. Strouse, who devised the project explicitly for Williams after working with her on 2015’s People Places Things, the movie is gentle and surprisingly sweet, relying on its star’s undeniable magnetism and rhetorical ingenuity. Between the bold, cartoon-typeface title cards, the one-woman dance parties, and the elaborately staged daydreams, there are times when it feels like a raunchy Lizzie McGuire update, only with a much more compelling character at the helm.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development
At the beginning of the movie, Jessica, a frustrated playwright, is living in “deepest Bushwick,” recovering from a breakup with Damon (Lakeith Stanfield), and attempting to get her work staged by any theater in New York that will consider it (every rejection letter gets taped neatly on her wall). After a less than enticing date with a Tinder prospect who mimics her vernacular (“totes preesh”), her best friend, Tasha (Noël Wells) sets her up with Boone (Chris O’Dowd), a shuffling sadsack of a divorcé who initially seems like sexual Kryptonite. Jessica goes home with him anyway. And what starts as a mutual breakup affirmation society (they unfollow their exes together but follow each other’s so they can keep abreast of updates) turns into a strangely satisfying relationship.
The movie’s energy goes up and down, and there are times when it feels like scenes could have used an extra take or two. But Williams is a gifted enough actress to poke holes in Jessica’s swagger so her insecurities peek through. She refers to herself as a “unicorn,” insists to a roomful of women at a baby shower that they have to subvert the patriarchal paradigm, and tells Boone that she’s “frigging dope.” But she’s also creatively frustrated, teaching theater writing to a group of admittedly adorable kids in Hell’s Kitchen and squealing over a rejection simply because the correspondent bothered to read one of her plays. “This is theater, Shandra,” she tells one of her students in a faux-plummy baritone. “We don’t have to do any of this. We do it simply because we must.”
This isn’t to say Williams can carry the movie entirely by herself. Her chemistry with Boone is intermittent at best, and his lackadaisical appeal owes more to O’Dowd’s reliable congeniality than to Boone’s depth as a character. The movie’s twists and turns often feel extracted from Screenwriting for Dummies. Jessica’s angst isn’t entirely persuasive, although the movie makes a little effort to explore her childhood and how she feels like an oddball among her more conventional family members. But The Incredible Jessica James’s frequent, zingy quips and its understated, realistic portrayal of 21st-century romance make it an engaging way to spend an hour and a half. If nothing else, it’s a real pleasure just to spend so much time in Williams’s company, and watch her star rightfully ascend.
Light spoilers through Season 7, Episode 2 of Game of Thrones.
Jon Snow, newly appointed King of the North, is sharing his strategy—to fight Cersei, to fight the White Walkers, to win the many battles to come—with the assemblage of fighters who have agreed to join him in the effort. “Everyone age 10 to 16 we’ll drill daily with spears, pikes, bow, and arrow,” Jon informs the group. The warriors cheer. They like this plan: Everyone’s in this together, after all. If there’s to be any hope of victory, it’s going to require wide-scale cooperation. And, anyway, “it’s about time we taught these boys of summer how to fight!” Lord Glover bellows.  
But Jon corrects him; Glover has misunderstood. “Not just the boys,” Jon says. Women will be part of the effort, too. “We can’t defend the North,” Jon points out, “if only half the population is fighting.”
It’s in one sense yet another moment of realpolitik in Game of Thrones, a show that has become increasingly fascinated with the minutiae of political decision-making as it winds down, and gears up, to its conclusion. But Jon’s decree also nods to the broader world Game of Thrones occupies, a world that is fighting different kinds of wars and negotiating different kinds of politics. If only half the population is fighting is a line that easily doubles as a slogan. It’s the stuff of hashtags, and memes, and Zazzle-friendly T-shirts.
Game of Thrones and the Paradox of Female Beauty
But it’s also the stuff of Lyanna Mormont, the spunky young woman who manages to steal the scene from Jon in the most straightforward of ways: by passionately agreeing with him. “I don’t plan on knitting by the fire while men fight for me,” Lyanna glowers. “I might be small, Lord Glover,” she continues, “and I might be a girl, but I am every bit as much a Northerner as you. And I don’t need your permission to defend the North.”
Which is … exactly the right thing to say. It’s on the one hand a perfectly fitting follow-up to Jon’s half the population concession, but it’s also the kind of line, outside of the show’s universe, that gives fans something to cheer for. It calls to mind the literary (Helena, of Hermia: “Though she be but little, she is fierce”). And yet it is not subtle; it is not complicated; and this is the point. “Lyanna Mormont gives an empowering speech about why women should fight,” a bullet-pointed write-up from Business Insider went. It added: “Game of Thrones fans were loving it.”
But the duo of messages from Jon and Lyanna—desperate times call for desperate egalitarianism—reflect another kind of political reality: The messages hint at how keenly aware Game of Thrones’s writers and producers are of the environments beyond Westeros. As they adapt George R.R. Martin’s books, they are also adapting to the people who have loved and hated and criticized their TV show. They are arguing for the real-world relevance of a series whose plots revolve around ice-zombies and dragons. And, in that, they’re creating a series that exists not just for entertainment value, but also to be discussed, and slogan-ed, and memed. Here, in the person of Lyanna Mormont, a girl who above all doesn’t need your permission, is tagline-friendly feminism, on display in a show that lives as much on the internet as it does within the walled gardens of HBO.
* * *
In one way, it’s awesome, all this overt celebration of lady-ness in a universe that hasn’t always been so overtly celebratory of its women. It makes the other stuff in the show—the violence, in particular—easier to take. And it brings the world of Game of Thrones into the moral universe of our own, giving it a particular relevance and urgency. Lyanna is a bold young woman who embodies the innocence of those who have not yet understood the arbitrary ways of the world. She functions as a vehicle of defiance in a world that prefers to defy her. Young and brave and not taking your nonsense—she is, essentially, an animate incarnation of the Fearless Girl statue.
The tension, though, comes from the context: Game of Thrones is a world, of course, in which “fearless” and “girl” are decidedly not redundant. Lyanna, after all, exists in the same story that found Sansa Stark brutally raped, multiple times—and that found Game of Thrones depicting her experience of that violence in intimate, graphic detail. Lyanna exists in the same story that washed Melisandre’s big reveal in regressive assumptions about feminine age and feminine beauty. And that found Talisa Stark stabbed in her pregnant abdomen. And that found Shireen Baratheon, a girl not unlike Lyanna, burned, brutally, at the stake. And that found Arya Stark transformed, through tragedy and trauma, from a Lyanna-esque tomboy into a wide-eyed revenge-monster.
There is, of course, an equalizing element to Game of Thrones’s violence: Women, here, are not spared, and this is its own embrace of Jon Snow’s if only half the population is fighting philosophy. But Game of Thrones, it must be said, also gave unto the world the Sand Snakes, three of the most insipid characters not just in Game of Thrones’s universe, but on television, in general. Stubbornly one-dimensional and “exotic” in the most boring of ways, these daughters of Dorne are the stuff of Edward Said’s nightmares—and also of Gloria Steinem’s. They seem to enjoy teasing men, just for the power of it. They seem to enjoy displaying their breasts, for the same reason. “You want a good girl,” Tyene—but it barely matters, as the main thing about these three women is that they operate as a dull unit—whispers to Bronn. She adds: “But you need the bad pussy.” Yes.
So Lyanna Mormont lives in the same universe that finds Tyene demanding that Bronn acknowledge her as “the most beautiful woman in the world” (lest, if he does not, she let him die from the poison she has administered). She operates in a narrative environment, overall, that belies the fearless-girl feminism her character is meant to advertise. In its context, I might be a girl, but I am every bit as much a Northerner as you rings true; it also, however, rings hollow.
And so, in some ways, does that other moment of lady-power sloganeering in Season 7. “The Long Night is coming,” Melisandre tells Daenerys, when the two women finally encounter each other in person. “Only the prince who was promised can bring the dawn.”
“I’m afraid I’m not a prince,” Daenerys replies.  
Missandei actuallys the situation. “That noun has no gender in High Valyrian,” she notes. “So the proper translation for that prophecy would be, ‘the prince or princess who was promised will bring the dawn.’”
Daenerys’s adviser—and occasional translator—is providing yet another moment of triumphant feminism for fans to cheer: in this case, of gendered expectations, thwarted. Of egalitarianism, against all odds, winning. The moment is subtle—it’s a matter of grammar, after all—but the show plays it for drama. “The prince or princess.” BOOM.
But that moment, too, has its context: the same context that Lyanna’s moment does. What results in the juxtaposition is the kind of dramatic tension that Game of Thrones is so good at producing: Story versus slogan. Character versus caricature. Treatments of feminine power that are relatively complicated and nuanced (Daenerys’s not-always-successful attempts to be a just ruler, Cersei’s not-always-successful attempts to balance motherhood with power-hunger, Yara Greyjoy’s military ambitions, and Sansa’s struggle to survive, and Arya’s quest both to forget herself and to find herself again) chafing against treatments of feminine power that are the opposite (bad pussy).
The delight of Game of Thrones—the thing that has made it compelling not just as entertainment, but as art—has long been that kind of tension. This is a show that productively tangles the epic and the everyday, the small moments of wry humor with the fire-breath of dragons, that which is human with that which is magic. And that tension applied to its women gives the show another level of resonance: In its own juxtaposition of “empowerment” and power, the shiny message versus the messy reality, Game of Thrones reflects a truth of the other world it is operating in: the real one. The world that also claims to celebrate women who rise to power, but that also remains extremely conflicted—wage gaps, makeup taxes, “grab ‘em by the pussy”—about what such empowerment should actually entail. A world in which the Fearless Girl statue, it turns out, was installed by an investment firm with only three women sitting on its 11-person board of directors.  
There’s a similar irony at play with Lyanna Mormont, the Fearless Girl of the North. In declaring her own independence, she is also, in a way, being used. She is helping to serve the needs of Game of Thrones’s showrunners, and HBO’s executives, and a show that has been criticized for giving girls a reason to be fearful in the first place. Lyanna, after all, is a character who is also an argument. She insists that things are better than they are. She glowers at the men surrounding her and, all defiance and strength, raises her voice to argue that women should fight, too. And the men cheer. They’re in this together, now. If only it were that simple.
Angelina Jolie Solo
Evgenia Peretz | Vanity Fair
“As it happens, the personal trauma has coincided with her most personal film yet. Jolie has directed a moving, large-scale adaptation of First They Killed My Father, Loung Ung’s 2000 memoir of the Khmer Rouge genocide. … If Cambodians consider the film to be something of a gift, then it’s surely a thank-you gift. For Jolie, Cambodia is where she started her family, and it’s where she made a cathartic personal transformation, becoming the woman she is today.”
The TV That Created Donald Trump
Emily Nussbaum | The New Yorker
“When Trump first entered TV, the entire medium had been dismissed as junk. Now, even as critics were swooning over the artistry of cable drama, Trump swerved deeper, into stranger regions, straight into the types of television that nobody took seriously, the ones dismissed as guilty pleasures.”
German Philosophy Has Finally Gone Viral. Will That Be Its Undoing?
Stuart Jeffries | Foreign Policy
“Such has German philosophy changed: Words like ‘delightful,’ ‘beguiling,’ and ‘easily consumable’ would never have been used when speaking of Immanuel Kant or Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel. At its best, the trend indicates German philosophy is engaging a mass audience as never before. At its worst, this means philosophy is becoming an item of conspicuous consumption designed to flatter users’ intellectual self-images.”
Nathan Lane and the Rylance Rule: Why We Should Let Stage Actors Be Great Onstage
Isaac Butler and Dan Kois | Slate
“Why on earth would we want to push one of the four or five best living stage actors onto film? ... The idea that film work is the greatest honor any artist can attain—that what you should want from a book is for it to be made into a movie, or that what an actor must do is be in films, even if those films take him away from good stage work—is a deeply maddening one.”
John Boyega and Dawson's Creek: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Worst White House Kitchen in History
Laura Shapiro | Literary Hub
“The art of the cover-up, which Eleanor [Roosevelt] practiced diligently all her life, was difficult to maintain when it came to cooking and eating. Eleanor wrote so often and so copiously about herself, in memoirs and letters and articles, that the truth had a way of spilling out. Over the years, she became a reliable source on a subject she would have insisted she knew nothing about—her own food story. And it isn’t a story about a woman with no palate for pleasure.”
Tragic Queendom
K. Austin Collins | The Ringer
“Marie Antoinette ... seems to ignore history and politics altogether, homing in on the immediate pleasures of privilege, as well as the stultified inner life of a teenage girl turned out-of-touch queen. [Sofia] Coppola has been accused of ignoring history in favor of languishing in the bejeweled pleasures of her navel-gazing characters. But in Marie Antoinette, style begets substance, revealing multitudes about the politics of history and how we tell it.”
Michael Moore Says He Wants to Change Minds. So Why Is He on Broadway?
Dave Itzkoff | The New York Times
“His show arrives amid a period of liberal soul searching, when any vaguely oppositional voice, whether a left-leaning columnist or late-night host, has gotten a second wind in the Trump era. Perhaps Mr. Moore, with his rumpled baseball hat and Midwestern bona fides, can offer some answers. But why take his act to Broadway? ... What does Mr. Moore, who is known for a biting, sarcastic politics of outrage, think he can do differently, talking to about 1,000 people who have paid as much as $149 a seat?”
South Park Raised a Generation of Trolls
Sean O’Neal | The A.V. Club
“But South Park has now lived long enough to see the experimental become the conventional. And it’s outlasted all but one of those series not just by subverting formulaic TV, but by feeding directly off current events. As a result, for many of those raised by South Park, the show has functioned as sort of a scatological op-ed—in some cases, maybe the only op-ed they’ve ever been interested in.”
Don’t Miss
What Christopher Nolan Gets Right About Netflix—David Sims defends the director’s latest dismissive comments of the company’s policy on theatrical releases as an argument for a different streaming model.
Film
The Brutal Cynicism of Lost in America Still Resonates—David Sims looks back at Albert Brooks’s 1985 satire of two upper-middle-class Californians trying to find themselves.
Landline: A Melancholy ’90s Romantic Dramedy—David Sims reviews Gillian Robespierre’s follow-up to the 2014 hit Obvious Child, which puts Jenny Slate at the center of a dysfunctional family.
Harry Styles and Rihanna Nail the Pop Star as Actor—Spencer Kornhaber explores the contrasting kinds of crossovers in Dunkirk and Valerian.
Brigsby Bear Is a Clever Bit of Fake ’80s Nostalgia—David Sims appreciates the dark ode to the weird obsessions of childhood.
Atomic Blonde Is a Brutal, Nonsensical Thrill Ride—David Sims revels in Charlize Theron taking her action chops to another level in David Leitch’s Cold War spy thriller.
TV
The Bold Type and the Enduring Appeal of the Women’s Magazine—Megan Garber examines the show’s celebration of “stealth feminism” and that of the publication it portrays.
Game of Thrones: A Wolf in Wolf’s Clothing—Spencer Kornhaber, David Sims, and Sophie Gilbert discuss the second episode of the seventh season.
A Curb Your Enthusiasm for Millennials—Anna Diamond watches Eighty-Sixed, a web series from the HBO creator’s daughter Cazzie David that taps into an uncomfortable brand of humor for a new generation.
Insecure’s Nuanced Take on Singleness—Megan Garber thinks the Season 2 premiere treats a breakup not just as an event, but also as a kind of physical space.
The HBO Show That Takes Place in a Single Room—Sophie Gilbert contemplates Jay and Mark Duplass’s new anthology show in which the setting stays the same, but everything else is unpredictable.
Books
The Swedish Novel That Imagines a Dystopia for the Childless—Sophie Gilbert reads Ninni Holmqvist’s 2009 book The Unit, which imagines a world where people who haven’t procreated are forced to make a different contribution to society.
Cosplaying Jane Austen—Ted Scheinman enters the world in which 200 years after the novelist’s death, people bond over her works with costumes involved.
On Teaching, but Not Loving, Jane Austen—Patricia A. Matthew talks about her ambivalence toward the author and the fervor for her work.
What Michiko Kakutani Talked About When She Talked About Books—Megan Garber reminisces about the woman whose name became synonymous with book culture as she retires from The New York Times after 38 years.
The 13 Writers Longlisted for the 2017 Man Booker Prize—Sophie Gilbert notes that Arundhati Roy, Zadie Smith, Colson Whitehead, and George Saunders are among the authors in contention for the British literary award.
Music
The Exquisite Horror in Lana Del Rey’s Nostalgia—Spencer Kornhaber listens to Lust for Life, which greets Trump-era anxieties with an eerie flower-child grin.
What’s Wrong With Arcade Fire’s Everything Now?—Spencer Kornhaber believes the band’s fifth album hints at hearty social critique but provides weak songs.
Sports
Is Surfing More Sport or Religion?—Jaimal Yogis asks the question that even hardcore devotees disagree on, finding that many still acknowledge there’s something spiritual about catching waves.
Don’t Take Mike Trout for Granted—Robert O’Connell argues that the Los Angeles Angels outfielder shouldn’t need to be on a contending team for baseball fans to appreciate his consistent excellence.
We asked readers to answer our question for the September issue: What was the most important letter in history? Vote for your favorite response below, and we’ll publish the results of the poll in the next issue.
Create your own user feedback survey

Atomic Blonde is fond of its ice cubes. David Leitch’s spy thriller introduces us to the MI6 agent Lorraine Broughton (Charlize Theron), covered in bruises, soaking in a bathtub full of them. She emerges, tosses a couple in a glass, and pours herself a healthy helping of vodka. Lorraine is ice-cold, and don’t you forget it—white as a sheet, with hair to match, and a personality that ranges from aloof to hostile. She’s also quite literally a Cold Warrior, dispatched to Berlin on the eve of the collapse of Communism, weaving in-between West and East Germany to recover a valuable asset—and root out a deadly double agent.
Theron has long been a versatile star, but recently she’s become the reigning queen of action cinema, thanks to her marvelous work as the one-armed, apocalyptic truck steward Furiosa in 2015’s Mad Max: Fury Road. She made an unfortunately brief appearance as the main villain of The Fate of the Furious this year, but Atomic Blonde is more worthy of her talents, putting her at the center of half a dozen epic throwdowns with various KGB goons, choreographed with ruthless efficiency by Leitch (who co-directed the 2014 cult classic John Wick). The action in Atomic Blonde is top-shelf; but the plot that knits it together, crucial to any good spy film, is a whole lot flimsier.
John Wick: An Idiot Killed His Puppy and Now Everyone Must Die
The unique vision that Leitch, a former stuntman, brought to John Wick’s action (along with his co-director Chad Stahelski, who made the second Wick by himself) was essential to its success. Atomic Blonde is loaded with it—every sequence plays out with glorious clarity, letting the incredible stunts speak for themselves, and turning the camera into the third partner in each vicious dance. It’s electrifying to watch the camera gracefully swoop under and over and around Theron and her enemies in every new bit of hand-to-hand combat; Leitch is not a director who relies on quick cuts, or shaky handheld shots, to obscure the tougher parts of his set-pieces.
Theron, too, is magnetic as Lorraine, an icepick thrust into the frigid, deteriorating burg (pun intended) of Berlin; she’s driven by her own dark motivations that the film slowly unravels over its 115-minute running time. Leitch lights her in pink neon and tinted blue, leaning hard into the nostalgic aesthetic of his late-’80s period piece, but Theron would excel no matter how she was filmed or costumed. She’s simply got the best eyes in the business—they’re deep wells of sorrow or contempt, and depending on who she’s looking at, in this film, the only thing remotely betraying her Terminator demeanor.
My only problem? I could not, for the life of me, tell you what was going on for most of Atomic Blonde. An hour after seeing it, most of the details of the story had already escaped me; it certainly involved Lorraine, MI6’s squirrelly station chief David Percival (James McAvoy), and a whole lot of double-crossing, but that’s about as much as I’d swear to. Based on the comic-book series The Coldest City by Antony Johnston and Sam Hart, Atomic Blonde is mostly concerned with the grim toll espionage takes upon one’s identity. Both Lorraine and David are far from devoted civil servants, and the result of their ongoing spy wars is reflected in the chaos of Berlin.
That idea works fine as subtext, but the film increasingly has characters voice that metaphor aloud to audiences, driving home a point that already felt perfectly clear—all while Lorraine plumbs deeper and deeper into a tangle of lies and fractured alliances that also include the French agent Delphine (Sofia Boutella), the German secret policeman Spyglass (Eddie Marsan), and a hulking KGB enforcer called Aleksander (Roland Møller). The film also frequently cuts back to Lorraine’s debriefing session with her MI6 superior Eric Gray (Toby Jones) and a CIA liaison (John Goodman), seemingly to try and make sense of everything for the audience, but it only serves to confuse things more.
This scattered plotting is largely forgivable as an excuse for breathlessly exciting action and a typically riveting star performance. McAvoy is his delightful manic self (think his work in Split more than his fatherly X-Men character) as Lorraine’s often unhelpful ally, while Leitch sprinkles in an inordinate amount of obvious ’80s needle-drops (yes, including “99 Luftballons”) to propel each sequence along. By the time Atomic Blonde gets to its pièce de résistance, a 20-minute, single-take brawl with a heap of KGB agents on a stairwell, it’s hard not to give yourself over to its brutal charms, logic be damned.
In the new movie Brigsby Bear, James Pope’s favorite TV show is the kind of throwback piece of ’80s children’s entertainment that you could see easily catching on with a new generation. Shown exclusively on low-quality VHS, Brigsby Bear Adventures is a surreal blend of fantasy and educational programming of the sort that used to litter the Saturday morning television landscape. The program sees the magical anthropomorphic bear Brigsby doing battle with an evil wizard in the moon while also teaching multiplication. But the show, and its star, isn’t real—not even within the world of Dave McCary’s debut film, written by Kyle Mooney and Kevin Costello.
Brigsby Bear Adventures is an elaborate fake, a nifty brainwashing tool designed to keep the 25-year-old James (Mooney) happy and sedate in the underground bunker he’s lived in his entire life. As the film begins, James is rescued from his “parents” Ted (Mark Hamill) and April (Jane Adams) by the FBI and told that he was in fact kidnapped as a baby from his real mother and father, Greg (Matt Walsh) and Louise (Michaela Watkins). That revelation is somewhat beside the point to James, though—his real concern is Brigsby, the only friend he’s ever had, who, it turns out, was sprung entirely from the strange minds of his captors.
Saturday Night Live’s Sincere Ode to Sectional Couches
If that sounds like a labored plot setup, credit to Mooney and Costello for laying it out quite simply and letting the details remain relatively obscure. Brigsby Bear sticks firmly to the perspective of James, who almost refuses to engage with the “real world” he’s suddenly been launched into, mostly out of self-preservation. What Ted and April wanted with a child is never really important, nor is James’s relationship with his actual parents, who look on in panic as he babbles to them about a made-up television show. Brigsby Bear is really just a story about how people relate to the entertainment that helped raised them—and how simultaneously pure and destructive that relationship can be.
So much pop culture today trades on the imagery of ’80s favorites: Think of Stranger Things and The Americans, not to mention the slew of classics like Ghostbusters and Blade Runner being remade and given sequels. McCary, who is a director at Saturday Night Live and was part of the “Good Neighbor” comedy group that helped launch Mooney’s career, excels at mimicking the visual patina of whatever specific property he’s parodying. The clips of Brigsby Bear Adventures, down to the halting visual effects and heavy plot reliance on dei ex machina, are pitch-perfect and doled out in small enough segments to never grow tiring.
But the movie works because of the quiet undercurrent of menace to the whole thing—the goofy, but still disturbing, idea that this gentle-seeming show was built to control James, and did too good a job. In the brief glimpse we get of James’s life underground, Ted and April are nudging him to help them solve some convoluted mathematical equation, but James’s Brigsby obsession has run rampant, ultimately distracting him from whatever cultish activity it was originally supposed to help direct him toward. Above ground, Brigsby is still all James can talk about, and his new friends (a bunch of teenagers he meets through his despairing sister) are fascinated with his fake pop-culture artifact.
The plot sees James trying to make his own film, a proper conclusion to the Brigsby saga, now that his fake father can no longer complete the series from prison. In doing so, he’s liberating this weird show from all of its restrictions and becoming a sort of YouTube-era Ed Wood by making a genuine work of outsider art. He sweeps all of his new friends and family into his obsession, including the cop (Greg Kinnear) who rescued him and who nurses a long-dormant acting bug.
McCary largely sticks to that mild tone for most of the movie, rather than relying on heavy-handed references to the underlying creepiness of the material. James never becomes “normal,” per se, though the people around him accept him for who he is and come to respect his artistic obsession. But the film does struggle to keep hold of its tone, becoming a little too blandly optimistic in its final act. Brigsby Bear Adventures is supposed to be a reflection of culture through two different mirrors: James’s innocent love of adventure and his captors’ more sinister aims. But by the end of the movie, the show is just another future YouTube artifact to be pored over by youths in search of new forms of kitsch.
It’s hard to fault Mooney and Costello for choosing the sweeter path—the movie is, after all, told through James’s eyes, and he has only the dimmest awareness of the wrongs that have been done to him over the years. Brigsby Bear succeeds at feeling like more than an expanded Saturday Night Live sketch, or a simple piece of nostalgia. It’s a minor, but solid, entrant into the sub-genre of “bad filmmaking as art,” a tale of a story within a story that knows the power of any work of fiction, no matter how niche.
The best thing about Room 104, a new half-hour anthology show created for HBO by Jay and Mark Duplass, is that it’s completely unpredictable: The only unifying factor in the 12-episode series is a faded, unremarkable motel room where each episode is set. The antics within that room could be terrifying (a demonic child who never blinks and torments his babysitter), charming (a wannabe writer in 1997 cajoles his mother into trying to use email), or unsettling (a cult initiation goes very, very wrong). The Duplasses set themselves a handful of ground rules—each episode was filmed in just three days and limited entirely to the space inside the room—but otherwise, anything goes.
The worst thing about Room 104 is that it’s completely inconsistent. The most satisfying episodes function like one-act plays, with well-structured narrative arcs and twists and reveals. The most irritating ones feel overly self-indulgent—transparent opportunities for the writers (Mark Duplass wrote seven out of 12) and directors (a notably diverse group) to play around with form. Still, there’s something thrilling about a show that’s so eager to experiment. With so many shows feeling algorithmically tailored to the preferences of the discerning binge viewer, Room 104 is much less calculated—it would much rather try and fail than, say, offer up a grab-bag of prestige-TV tropes that feels ultimately hollow.
The Complex Humanity of Black Mirror
The first episode, “Ralphie,” draws on the Duplasses’ previous work with horror, starring Melonie Diaz as an earnest babysitter. Before she arrives, a father (Ross Partridge) is seen sitting in the motel room with his head in his hands, and the question of what’s troubling him looms ominously after he leaves. There are surprises and jump scares and twists, and if the ending feels less sophisticated than the rest of the episode might merit, it’s at least a gripping and tightly directed 20 minutes. The same can be said for “The Knockadoo,” a dive into a Scientology-like cult initiation involving DVDs, past-life experiences, and a horrific final montage. The strange, chilling story features superb performances by Sameerah Luqmaan-Harris as a woman seeking salvation and American Gods’ Orlando Jones as the snake-oil priest taking her money.
When Room 104 falters, it’s because it’s having so much fun playing around that it forgets that fun might not translate to viewers. “The Internet,” set in 1997, is so script-driven that it could almost function as a radio play. Anish (Karan Soni) is a writer preparing for a huge meeting with his publisher, who realizes he’s left his laptop at his mom’s house. The next 25 minutes involve him painstakingly trying to teach his mother (Poorna Jagannathan) to master Word, Apple shortcuts, and email, in a process that’s as torturous as it sounds. The final five minutes offer a reveal that’s deeply moving but maddeningly brief, given all the effort that’s gone into getting there. Too frequently, Room 104 ends just when it’s getting good.
But “Voyeurs” is something entirely different: a work of interpretive dance directed by the choreographer and filmmaker Dayna Hanson. Again, it plays with time, bringing a tired hotel maid (Dendrie Taylor) face to face with her younger self ( the dancer and Flesh and Bone star Sarah Hay). It’s an extraordinary, dreamlike interlude that feels more like a theatrical performance than an episode of television—which is the whole point. “The Fight,” which comes later in the series, is also primarily physical, presenting a full 15 minutes or so of two female mixed-martial artists brawling to determine how a fight should be thrown. The episode, directed by Megan Griffiths, is intricately staged and shot, but entirely lacking in tension and painfully repetitive.
The final episode, “My Love,” is a slow elegy—a window into a relationship that started in the motel room 56 years ago, and which is revealed to be more complicated than it seems. Philip Baker Hall gives a tender, vulnerable performance as a husband trying to woo his wife (Ellen Geer) all over again. These stories often feel like fragments of ideas jacked into something bigger—sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn’t. But they’re less anxiety-inducing than a show like Black Mirror and less cynical than American Horror Story. You might crave a little more attention when it comes to concept, but there’s no denying the creativity behind the ideas. Each work is a drama in miniature, and the room itself is the backdrop, the base, and the precipitating element for what unfolds.
Which could be a horrible idea—a work of television limited to the same rigid environment as a stage play—but somehow isn’t. Hotel rooms bring myriad connotations: affairs, escapes, work trips, assignations. They’re transitory spaces where the only constant is that people never stick around. The appeal of Room 104 comes from the same principle: The viewer’s time with these odd, compelling characters is only temporary. The best episodes, like the best people, are the ones that leave you wanting more.
“Oh, my God, right, your book’s reviewed this week. You must be so excited!”
That’s Carrie Bradshaw’s friend Stanford Blatch. And he is, Sex and the City’s newly christened book author informs him, incorrect.
“More like terrified,” Carrie tells him. “Michiko Kakutani. She’s the Times’s book critic.” Carrie adds: “She’s brilliant, and she’s really tough.”
Brilliant and really tough is, even when refracted through Sex and the City’s kaleidoscopic caricature of New York City, an extremely apt description of Kakutani, the woman who, for 38 years, has reviewed books, toughly and brilliantly, for the city’s—and the nation’s—paper of record. On Thursday, the Pulitzer-winner announced her retirement from the Times, the latest high-profile journalist to take one of the buyouts the paper has been offering to its staffers. The Books desk at the paper will now be led by Parul Sehgal, Dwight Garner, and Jennifer Senior, with regular contributions from Janet Maslin. The group, a Times press release announced, will oversee the desk as it “expands its coverage, reaching out to new audiences while continuing to provide the high standard of authoritative literary criticism our readers have depended on for decades.”
Elena Ferrante and the Cost of Being an Author
That criticism has been authoritative in large part because of Kakutani. She hasn’t been, over these past several decades, merely a critic; she has been a critic who has elevated the art form she has criticized. In a media environment that sometimes treats books as fusty, dusty things—as distractions, as indulgences, academic and isolated from the world’s more pressing problems—Kakutani has insisted on the urgency of books. She has understood that if a good newspaper is a nation talking to itself, then a good book review, published within such a paper, would have a similar conversational effect. Books, she has insisted, are their own form of civic discourse. We marginalize them at our peril.
Kakutani found an eager market for that message—so much so that the book critic became, against so many odds, a pop-culture phenomenon. It wasn’t just Sex and the City, after all, with its book-specific plot lines, that has celebrated her impact on the world. Kakutani has also been mentioned in The OC. And in Girls. She has been the subject of satire. And of fan fiction. And she has—perhaps the greatest tribute of all, for a woman who wields words like weapons—been made into a verb. (“Kakuntanied,” verbal adj.: to fall victim to “the poison pen of America’s most powerful literary critic.”)
Some of the interest in Kakutani as a person has likely stemmed from the fact that, during a time in which authorship itself has been subject to the whims of branding, Kakutani has refused to hold anything—or, more specifically, anyone—sacred. She has managed both to shape literary consensus and to delight in rejecting it. Over the years, Kakutani has offered up notably blistering reviews of the likes of Toni Morrison, and John Updike, and Don DeLillo. She has called Margaret Atwood’s novel Oryx and Crake a “lumpy hodgepodge of a book” that is “didactic, at times intriguing but in the end thoroughly unpersuasive.” Her poison pen has dismissed Norman Mailer’s The Gospel According to the Son as “silly, self-important, and at times inadvertently comical.” It has assessed Nick Hornby’s A Long Way Down as a “maudlin bit of tripe,” and Martin Amis’s The Second Plane as “a weak, risible” volume, and Jonathan Franzen’s The Discomfort Zone as “an odious self-portrait of the artist as a young jackass.”
For that, understandably, Kakutani has often invoked the ire of those—and other—authors. Franzen called her “the stupidest person in New York City.” Salman Rushdie described her, more elegantly and even more cuttingly than his fellow wordsmith, as “a weird woman.” Nicholson Baker said that reading one of her reviews “was like having my liver taken out without anesthesia.”
And yet Kakutani, operating within a book culture that can bend toward hagiography and enthusiasm and smarm, has also distinguished herself for her willingness to anger those authors. She has embraced “criticism” in every sense of the word. She has assessed each book on its merits. She has been sharp, but she has never been cruel. And: She has been on the side of the reader, always. If a book is a “lumpy hodgepodge,” she has said that it is a lumpy hodgepodge—even if the creator of the mess has happened to be Margaret Atwood.
This in turn meant that, when Michiko Kakutani liked a book, the liking itself was a very, very big deal. Her criticism has helped to make the careers of David Foster Wallace, and Zadie Smith, and George Saunders, and Mary Karr. And it has helped, as well, to make her byline itself into a literary destination of its own. When Kakutani won the Pulitzer Prize in 1998, the judging committee cited not only her “fearless and authoritative” journalism, but also the fact that her work had become “destination programming” for people in the book world, such as it is, and beyond.
It’s the beyond that has made Kakutani such an inimitable force in American journalism and American criticism. And it’s the beyond, as well—that sense of books as living, breathing, angering, inspiring, wondering, wonderful things—that may well shape the next stage of her career. Vanity Fair, which broke the news of Kakutani’s retirement from the Times, suggests that her departure from the paper will not necessarily be a departure from writing itself. As Joe Pompeo reported, “sources familiar with her decision, which comes a year after the Times restructured its books coverage, told me that last year’s election had triggered a desire to branch out and write more essays about culture and politics in Trump’s America.”
Perhaps one thing that launched that desire is the lauded review Kakutani published, in the run-up to the 2016 presidential election, of Volker Ullrich’s Hitler: Ascent, 1889-1939. A masterpiece of rhetoric as well as reviewing, the piece compared the years Ullrich was studying with those we are living in now, to teasing, and somewhat tragic, effect. “How did this ‘most unlikely pretender to high state office’ achieve absolute power in a once democratic country,” Kakutani asked, “and set it on a course of monstrous horror?” Maybe now, as Pompeo suggests, she will continue asking such questions—in a different setting, but with the same sense of urgency. Maybe Kakutani’s retirement from the Times will be not a retirement in full so much as the start of something new. Maybe the ethos that has guided her work—books, not as separate from culture and politics and the world at large, but as their most thoughtful measures—will continue. Here’s hoping. These are times, after all, that demand good conversations. And the best of those are generally led by people who are both brilliant and, yes, really tough.
Arcade Fire albums usually arrive with a technological gimmick—mysterious hotlines, shell corporations, immersive apps. It's benevolent overkill: Their orchestral-rock tunes often feel like VR films anyways. The Montreal collective creates songs with texture and weight; strongly defined beginnings, middles, and ends; and a voice in the ear that’s almost vaudevillian, insisting that everything you’re experiencing really is a very big deal. Hit “play” and feel what you need to feel—communal uplift, twitchy outrage, bittersweet catharsis.
Yet it’s tough to satisfyingly plug into their fifth album, Everything Now, and there are two tempting factors to blame: its obsession with danceability and its overdetermined lyrical concept. But fans know that both of those things aren’t all that new for the band. Something deeper, more hardware-level, is going awry.
The Exquisite Horror in Lana Del Rey's Nostalgia
Arcade Fire have long presented themselves as warriors against the numbness and isolation bred by modern society. Their 2004 debut, Funeral, told of mourners rediscovering youthful joie de vivre, and accordingly beneath its chamber pop was the thrum of body music—disco, sock hop, conga. After following that approach to an Album of the Year Grammy with 2010’s The Suburbs, they underwent a shift and let their groovier side take the lead on 2013’s Reflektor. Though many listeners snickered at the new nightclubby ambitions of a band wearing blazers and sneering about social media, Reflektor delivered on Arcade Fire’s essential promise. Amid the six-minute shuffles were wrenching melodies, musical plot-twists, and earned-in-sweat epiphanies.
The marketing for Everything Now has yet again attacked the supposedly dire spiritual condition of our age. The campaign, which involves a made-up corporation wreaking havoc on Twitter, has satirized the internet’s promise of “infinite content” via fake products, fake reviews, and #fakenews. The album’s first single, the title track, hinted at a smart melding of message and music. Begging for ABBA comparisons with its stiff backbeat, ooey-gooey piano motif, and ad-jingle chorus, it achieved liftoff by modulating its hook again, again, again until the listener had no choice but to give in. The seductive effect matched Win Butler’s mournful singing about entertainment overload: “Every film that you’ve ever seen / Fills the spaces up in your dreams.”

That song played a trick that really only can work once—though Arcade Fire do reprise its melody on Everything Now’s intro and outro. The rest of the album also follows the Reflektor vein of epic-scale dance routines, whether rendered as roiling funk on “Signs of Life,” stern electro on “Creature Comfort,” or merry ska on “Chemistry.” Thanks in part to producers Thomas Bangalter (half of Daft Punk), Steve Mackey (Pulp’s bassist), and Markus Dravs (a longtime Arcade Fire collaborator), the soundscapes are sparkling-clean, with less filigree than the band’s been known for. Maybe the slick production is why the songs feel strangely one-dimensional, though the best moments of Everything Now are in the music itself: Tron-reminiscent pulsation on “Put Your Money on Me,” murky country-Western signifiers on “We Don’t Deserve Love,” thundering synths from Portishead’s Geoff Barrow on “Creature Comfort.”
The bigger problem is the songwriting. Many of the tracks seem to coast on a single idea, choosing to just repeat it instead of develop it. On paper, mashing up reggae with a robotized Joan Jett riff on “Chemistry” might seem intriguing—but as Butler just hisses one come-on again and again, the novelty of the arrangement drains away. A pair of terse tracks, “Infinite Content” and “Infinite_Content” offer a hard and soft take on the same pun, amounting to exactly zero replay value. The strut-and-clap swirl of “Signs of Life” establishes itself as one of the album’s best-sounding tracks within its first 40 seconds, but Butler’s rap-singing over the next four minutes never lands on a satisfying hook.
Weirdly, the larger thematic point of the album—so insistently signaled by the jokey marketing campaign—feels underdeveloped as well. The rich, melancholy chiming of “Creature Comfort” sets up Butler shouting about troubled millennials (including some girl who puts on Funeral and considers suicide), but the song never quite locates the narrator’s relationship to them: Is he hectoring, is he sympathizing? Elsewhere the album buries its anti-consumerist theme way deep within putative tales of romance and Jesus. Butler seems to be saying something about how even love is ruined by capitalism, but the hazy politics keeps near-triumphs like “Put Your Money on Me” from fully connecting. Butler’s pleas of devotion are movingly desperate, but his clunky mentions of “the chloroform sky” and “clouds made of Ambien” just interrupt the intimacy.
Great bands are allowed the occasional miscalculation, and there’s no telling what exactly led Arcade Fire to underachieve this time. You could be cute and ask if the media distractions and inescapable financial anxiety that their marketing campaign lambasts actually poisoned their process. You could wonder if the band just made the wrong aesthetic choice—simplicity and boldness over knottiness and melodrama—in an attempt to punch through the noise. Regardless, at 13 songs that include four interludes, and with the title track being the only entry into Arcade Fire’s top tier of songs, it’s hard to believe a band so famous for ambition showed up with so little … well, let’s not say “content.”
For more than a month, from the end of May to the middle of July, baseball was without its best player. Mike Trout, the 25-year-old centerfielder for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, slid into second base one afternoon, tore a ligament in his thumb, and went on the disabled list for the first time in his career. Gone were his airborne catches at the outfield wall, his piston-footed stolen bases, his home runs scattered to every part of the park. Gone too was the visible sense of mastery that always hangs around Trout, regardless of momentary success or failure: the comma of a swing, the strangely unhurried speed.
Trout re-joined the Angels after the midseason All-Star break, and in his time back, he’s been his usual self, doing everything a ballplayer can do about as well as it can be done. He has also reclaimed his old spot in the daily attention of baseball fans worldwide—which, curiously, is not at the top. Despite his brilliance, Trout appears in fewer commercials than Anthony Rizzo and Carlos Correa; The New York Times called him “Baseball’s Best, Without the Brand.” His even-keel bearing might have something to do with this, but the chief culprit is the mediocrity of his team. While the Dodgers, Astros, Nationals, and Red Sox ready their rosters for the postseason, the Angels figure to fall short again, for the sixth time in Trout’s seven seasons. The one year they did make it, they lost the division series to the Kansas City Royals in three straight games.
The Best MLB Player to Build a Franchise Around: Mike Trout
This information is usually presented as a problem to be solved; articles lamenting Trout’s relative low profile are a cottage industry. Some writers note that, given the realities of baseball, one player can do only so much to help his team, and others speculate about when he might be able to move on to a contender that could make better use of his talents and raise his Q score. But while it would certainly thrill to see Trout play meaningful games deep into October, such forecasting overlooks the appeal he holds right now, on a middle-of-the-pack club without realistic title aspirations. Plenty of superstars demonstrate what it looks like to rise to occasions and embrace big moments, but Trout fills in a neglected corner of sports’ emotional spectrum. He tolerates and hangs in; he does his best, even without much chance for ultimate glory.
* * *
This is an athletic era of overblown narrative, of hyper-Hollywood endings. Last year, LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers knocked off a seemingly unbeatable Warriors team in the NBA Finals. In February, Tom Brady brought the New England Patriots back from a 25-point Super Bowl deficit. In between, the Chicago Cubs ended what may have been history’s most famous championship drought. Anybody who watched those games has a collection of moments they can recall on demand: James materializing to block a late layup, Kris Bryant smiling as he threw to first for the final out.
Trout has had no such moments and won’t for the foreseeable future; his current contract runs through 2020. He plays with a mix of past-prime stars and fill-ins, and his home stadium features a pile of ersatz rocks behind the outfield wall and, usually, a bunch of empty seats. The Angels start their games at 7 o’clock Pacific time, when much of the baseball-watching population is nodding off on sofas. Even in this uninspiring atmosphere, though, Trout astonishes. Baseball aficionados treat his statistics like a holy text—he has led the American League in the catch-all category Wins Above Replacement, which summarizes a player's total offensive and defensive contributions, every year for a half-decade—but the sight of him on the field renders those gaudy numbers somehow underwhelming. Trout’s acumen is such that it seems impossible for him to have a truly bad game. He has a millimeter-fine understanding of the strike zone, a missile-launching bat, and an innate sense of the various strategies at work with each pitch: These traits never leave him all at once.
“He does it the right way every single day,” said Bryce Harper, the closest thing Trout has to a peer, before the Angels and Harper’s Nationals met for a July series. “He’s one of the best in the game at being himself and never changing.” What was unsaid but implied was how tempting it might be for any other player in Trout’s circumstance to lapse into bad habits. Harper himself has alternated MVP-quality seasons with down years, and he has had the adrenal pick-me-up of playing for a contender. Nobody familiar with the 162-game haul of the baseball season would begrudge Trout the occasional off night.
Trout’s unflagging demeanor, then, is as noteworthy as his skill. Eyes darting, toes tapping, a smile on his face, Trout looks as if the idea of being disenchanted on a baseball field has never occurred to him. This, too, keeps him off front pages and away from the top of SportsCenter—there are no locker-room tirades or trade requests to make him newsworthy—but it enamors him of purists. There is a tendency, when talking about Trout’s accomplishments, to refer to the habitual instead of the specific, to note that whatever spectacular thing he did is just one more instance of what he always does. So it was when Trout stole third base with a daring, multi-part slide one evening last September. Asked about the play after the game, Mike Scioscia, the Angels’ manager, deemed it standard. “Mike plays the game one way,” he said. “Full out.”
The recent run of massive comebacks, historic showdowns, and legacy-sealing plays across the major professional sports has been a gift to fans; it seems as if no stretch of three months goes by without some new championship-round installment of the impossible. It has also, though, played into a growing trend of seeing the biggest games as the only ones that matter. Seasons start, and the chatter immediately centers on who will prevail at the end. Anything that happens in the meantime is preamble, useful only insofar as it informs the important stuff to come.
At their best, though, sports operate on not only a mythic scale but also a daily one. They reveal long-haul determination in addition to clutch heroism. Today’s inclination is to feel sorry for Trout, to wish him into a condition suitable to his gifts. But he’s already in one. No World Series walk-off home run could tell us any more about him than we can learn watching him play on a weeknight in a half-full park, going about his remarkable routine.
The 13 novels longlisted for the Man Booker Prize, Britain’s most prestigious literary award, were announced Thursday morning. Among them are some of the biggest names in fiction (Arundhati Roy, Zadie Smith, Paul Auster, Colson Whitehead, George Saunders) as well as two first-time novelists: Fiona Mozley, a 29-year-old from northern England, and Emily Fridlund, a Cornell professor whose coming-of-age tale History of Wolves was released earlier this year.
Roy’s inclusion on the list comes 20 years after her first novel, The God of Small Things, won the Man Booker in 1997. The Ministry of Utmost Happiness, her long-awaited follow-up, was released earlier this year. Writing for The Atlantic, the critic Parul Sehgal called it a “fascinating mess,” a “hulking, sprawling story” about two characters, a trans woman living in Delhi, and an architect-activist. “Roy is a champion at waking the neighbors, at getting our attention, and as an offering, this book is a beautiful act of witness,” Sehgal writes. “But harnessing our attention—getting us to see as well as to look—that is perhaps a different, and more intricate, matter.”
Inside the 2016 Man Booker Longlist
This is only the fourth year that American writers have been eligible for the prize, following a change in the rules in 2014 that made any English-language novel published in the U.K. viable for inclusion. This year’s longlist includes four Americans: Fridlund; Auster, for 4 3 2 1, a structurally inventive epic about fate; Saunders, for his first novel, Lincoln in the Bardo, set in the cemetery where Abraham Lincoln’s dead son is trapped by his father’s grief; and Whitehead, whose 2016 novel The Underground Railroad has already won the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. The British writer Zadie Smith is included for Swing Time, her story of a biracial teenager growing up in London who meets a charismatic friend in tap class. “Interpersonal tensions give rise to smart observations—about identity, dance, women’s work, and cultural appropriation,” Dayna Tortorici wrote in The Atlantic, “and about two themes that have long been central to Smith’s work: blackness, and the fantasy of pure and discernible roots.”
The list also includes Autumn, by the British writer Ali Smith, a modernist excavation of British identity in the aftermath of Brexit. The Pakistani novelist Mohsin Hamid is featured for Exit West, his dazzling fable about the refugee experience, as is his compatriot Kamila Shamsie, whose book Home Fire reimagines Sophocles’s Antigone through the experiences of three siblings in modern-day Britain and America. Two Irish writers made the list: Sebastian Barry, for Days Without End, a historical story about an Irishman fleeing the Great Famine for America; and Mike McCormack for Solar Bones, a novel written in a single sentence. The British writer, Jon McGregor, who became the youngest writer ever nominated for the Man Booker in 2002, reaches this year’s longlist for Reservoir 13, the story of a community that’s gravely disturbed when a 13-year-old goes missing.
Mozley, who works in an independent bookstore in York and is studying for her PhD in medieval history, is maybe the biggest surprise on the list. Elmet, her debut, was praised by the Man Booker judges as “lyrical commentary on contemporary English society and one family’s precarious place in it.” The shortlist for the £50,000 prize will be announced on September 13, and the prize itself will be awarded at a dinner in October.
Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk is not what you’d call a typical summer blockbuster in 2017. It’s a sober, intense World War II epic, starring a total unknown (Fionn Whitehead), with no potential as a franchise. It’s not a story of triumph, but rather an edgy chronicle of soldiers surviving by the skin of their teeth (it also features only British troops; at the time of the Dunkirk evacuation, America hadn’t even entered the war). In the current Hollywood landscape, which shunts such “prestige” pictures to the fall or winter to try and curry Oscar favor, Dunkirk’s July 21 release was extremely unusual, and its broad success (a $50 million opening weekend, well above tracking numbers) was a relative surprise.
So it’s no wonder that Nolan, who reportedly insisted on the summer release and believed in Dunkirk’s ability to garner wide appeal, has acquired an outsized status within the film industry. He’s one of the only directors working who can launch a movie on the strength of his name, and he’s a loud advocate for shooting on celluloid and embracing cinema’s potential as a uniquely overwhelming viewing experience. He’s criticized Hollywood for moving toward digital projection, and on the press tour for Dunkirk he supposedly began a public war with Netflix, the company that pushes for its original films to be released online the same day they hit theaters.
Why Hollywood Should Pay Attention to Dunkirk
In an interview with IndieWire, Nolan criticized Netflix’s “day-and-date release” strategy, which has kept its original movies from playing in most major theater chains. “Netflix has a bizarre aversion to supporting theatrical films,” he said. “They have this mindless policy of everything having to be simultaneously streamed and released, which is obviously an untenable model for theatrical presentation. So they’re not even getting in the game, and I think they’re missing a huge opportunity.” That outlook, strongly in favor of going to theaters rather than watching movies at home, has been critiqued by some as elitist. But Nolan’s outlook is fairly simple: He’s arguing for a model that’s inclusive of both experiences, rather than biased toward one.
Ava DuVernay, the director of movies such as Selma and the upcoming A Wrinkle in Time, who worked with Netflix to make the Oscar-nominated documentary 13th, notably objected to Nolan’s comments on Twitter, asking, “But, what if there’s no movie theater in your neighborhood?” A film like 13th, one of last year’s most vital and important works, would have been much harder for most people to see before the arrival of Netflix. Instead, it’s available to anyone with a subscription (typically $10 a month), meaning anyone’s home can double as an arthouse cinema. Big-city dwellers might not have to think about it, but plenty of Americans have to drive for hours to see films in limited release. Streaming services remove that barrier.
There are plenty of downsides to the home-viewing experience, of course. I personally find myself much more prone to distraction when watching a film on my couch, hardly unusual in the smartphone age. The picture quality, even as 4K TVs become the norm and internet streaming quality continues to improve, is obviously not as impressive on a 50-inch TV as it is on a 50-foot-wide movie screen. But beyond that, Netflix does represent a more aggressive threat to theaters than any other home-viewing experience simply because of its release strategy.
Netflix’s CEO, Reed Hastings, has long contended that his company and theater chains can complement each other. The communal experience of a theater, he told Recode, is something viewers will always seek out even as TVs get more powerful, “Just like you go out to dinner even though you know how to cook,” he said. But that comparison is facile at best: Cooking is a complex multi-stage activity, while watching a film at home is the purest convenience. The better argument is one that’s been frequently noted for Dunkirk: Audiences will seek out the theater for more epic movies but may choose to stay home for smaller fare. The recent Hollywood favor for superhero franchises and big-budget action films has followed that trend, though the breakout success of comedies like Girls Trip tends to disprove it.
Nolan’s issue, however, is not really with the very existence of streaming services. In the same IndieWire interview, he praised the model of Amazon Studios, which buys the rights to small indie films like The Big Sick and finances larger efforts like James Gray’s The Lost City of Z, releases them wide in theaters, and then later presents them exclusively on the Prime streaming platform. “You can see that Amazon is very clearly happy to not make that same mistake,” Nolan said. “The theaters have a 90-day window. It’s a perfectly usable model. It’s terrific.”
Amazon has had serious success with its approach, which has drawn more big-name filmmakers because of the commitment to the theatrical-release window, and nabbed two Oscar wins for Manchester by the Sea last year (along with an impressive $48 million domestic gross). Netflix’s margins of success are harder to gauge because the company releases no consistent data on how many people watch its movies. The company does release potential Oscar players like War Machine and Okja in a few theaters, and has a deal with the high-end iPic chain, because the Academy demands a theatrical release to qualify films for its awards. But none of these Netflix movies has ever made any money—in fact, box-office data for Okja, one of the best films of 2017, is completely unavailable.
I was blown away by Okja when I saw it at a critics screening; anecdotally, I’ve been surprised at how many people I know were underwhelmed by it when viewing it at home. It may just be a matter of taste, of course, but a Bong Joon-ho film is certainly the kind of heightened, intense experience that benefits from shutting out the outside world for two hours. At the same time, it’s a movie about a super-pig that had an English and Korean script and cost $50 million to make: It’s hard to imagine Okja’s existence without Netflix, which threw down a budget twice that size to lure Martin Scorsese to make his next gangster epic The Irishman (coming in 2018).
It’s a strange conundrum: Netflix is at once supporting fascinating movies and exciting artists but discounting the essential theater experience. Nolan himself is certainly unmoved: “I think the investment that Netflix is putting into interesting filmmakers and interesting projects would be more admirable if it weren’t being used as some kind of bizarre leverage against shutting down theaters,” he told IndieWire. “Your worst nightmare in the ’90s as a filmmaker was that the studio would turn around and go, ‘You know what? We’re going to put it on video instead of theaters.’ They did that all the time. There’s nothing new in that.”
It’s naïve to look at multi-billion-dollar companies like Netflix and Amazon as serene benefactors of the cinematic arts; they’re ultimately businesses interested in propagating the streaming model (especially Netflix). But it’s also too simple to dismiss their power to bring films like 13th to a wider audience. Nolan’s main argument—for a streaming company that still commits in some way to the cinema experience—is not some elitist claptrap, but a reasonable plea from an artist who believes that movies are best enjoyed, if possible, in movie theaters. There are, of course, plenty of ways to appreciate cinema—and Nolan understands that Amazon’s embrace of multiple formats, rather than Netflix’s allegiance to one, is a more effective way to keep the industry thriving for future generations.
Scroll through the photos that David LaChapelle recently shot with Lana Del Rey and you may be hit with a whiff of linoleum, or microwave dinner, or asbestos. She descends a spiral staircase next to a gaudy fake Christmas tree of the kind you just don’t see anymore, wearing an equally gaudy coat, her eyes squinting, the camera having snapped at the wrong moment. She stains a wedding table with red wine, her mascara running and the flash catching the blood behind her retinas, as a man in the foreground smokes in ripped whitey tighties. She poses in a ruffled dress in front of a tiered garden styled with person-sized candles, next to a sign reading, “Happy Birthday America … 1776 1976.”
Pop culture has been mining the heyday of Polaroid in this fashion for a while now, and Lana Del Rey has led the way. Ever since the Los Angeles singer first achieved fame in 2011, she’s rarely been described without mentions of Instagram filters that make new photos look old, or of the way that platforms like Tumblr and Pinterest encourage young people to collage the bygone. So the nostalgia kick should be played out by now. Still, I can’t stop staring at these LaChapelle photos. In small ways—say, the body types of the people posing with Del Rey—they capture something about the era they reference. But in the colors, the couture, Del Rey’s impish glint, they’re novel. Most striking is the sense of menace underlying the garishness. Psychedelic burnout, Watergate disillusionment, serial murders—all tingeing images that otherwise might evoke “a simpler time.”
The Saddest Honeymoon
The notion of not-altogether-fun slippage between generations seems more of an obsession than ever for Del Rey on her fourth album, Lust for Life. The title is an Iggy Pop rip, one of many blatantly referential turns of phrase on the album. In the stories her songs tell, time travel nearly seems real: a moment at 2017 Coachella can become “Woodstock in my mind,” leading her to interpolate “Stairway to Heaven” and contemplate nuclear apocalypse. She begins the album sighing about “you kids with your vintage music,” adding, “You’re part of the past, but now you’re the future / Signals crossing can get confusing.” She’s awed by the cultural history that mass media marinates today’s youth in—but she’s also unsettled by it.
Del Rey’s music itself has always been retro-minded. In 2011, something about the way she sang sounded foreign compared to the try-hard emoting of Lady Gaga or Adele, and the description she often received was “dead eyed.” Really her shtick was semi-parodic throwback that swirled together B-movie blankness, girl-group earnestness, and Laurel Canyon introspection. Yet the way she married that sensibility with dramatic orchestration and snaking machine rhythms for her debut, Born to Die, was new, establishing a template for radio that still prevails today. Her two follow-ups, Ultraviolence and Honeymoon, were gauzier, slower experiments in rock and cabaret, but Lust for Life is really Born to Die’s sequel: a rather fabulous return to catchiness, camp, and faint hip-hop influences. She’s ever-more-cleverly casting the present in terms of the past and vice versa—and this time, there’s a political reason why.

Working primarily with her longtime collaborator Rick Nowels, Del Rey seems here to feel that “formulaic” is no insult when you’ve got fascinating variables to put into the formula. Most songs begin with Del Rey crooning alone over reverberating piano, guitar, or queasy synthetic bass. But by the chorus, it’s kicked into a rose-petal storm: loping programmed drums, lancing strings, Del Rey gasping across octaves without losing her cool. Often it feels like Nowels is backing into the sound of the Sneaker Pimps, and some of these 16 tracks were likely included only because Del Rey wrote lines that were too outrageous not to share. “Could it be that I fell for another loser?” she asks on one of a few second-tier cuts early in the album. “I’m crying while I’m cumin’ / Making love while I’m making good money.”
Such depictions of mercenary, doomed love affairs have long been Del Rey’s specialty, rooted in her nostalgia aesthetic. Born to Die reveled in pre-feminist relationship ideals: sugar daddies and Lolitas, guys loafing and girls doting on them. The level of irony at which she was operating wasn’t clear at the time, just as it’s now not clear just how earnestly she’s indulging a related set of Boomer tropes: flower-child positivity, dancing one’s way to peace, youth as paradise, the noble groupie. The power of her music may well be in the unease of her reclamation—the way that her voice, if not always her words, suggests certain problems can’t actually be banished by love and drugs and music.
One of those certain problems, this time, is Trump-era anxiety. “I feel like this election jolted almost everyone who was floating around, feeling weird, whatever … right into the current moment,” Del Rey told Flaunt magazine. “I know several people that had a sort of drifter mentality that are now in the thick of it, considering things.” Some of the most compelling songs here simply track that awakening. On the piano ballad “Change,” a clear product of studying Joni Mitchell, she regretfully sings, “Lately, I’ve been thinking it’s just someone else’s job to care.” The closer “Get Free,” a slick assemblage of Phil Spector compositional tics, presents an epiphany—emotional, political, or both—as metaphysical: “I’m crossing the threshold / From the ordinary world.”
Elsewhere, she gets more explicit about the conflicts of the time and place she lives in. Already, she’s received a Breitbart write-up for wondering “Is it the end of America?” on “When the World Was at War We Kept Dancing,” but she answers her own question in a fairly nonpartisan fashion: “No, it’s only the beginning / If we hold on to hope, we’ll have a happy ending.” The timeless call for resilience is delivered with modern pop slang (“choreo!”), just as it is on “God Bless America—And All the Beautiful Women in It,” a gunshots-laden anthem she says was inspired by the Women’s March. These obviously aren’t songs about specific policies; rather, they seem to take hope from how a previous American generation defined by political upheaval was also defined by some really famous parties.
In this, Del Rey’s music, as always, invites accusations of naivety. No one but Del Rey, for example, might pay tribute to the flower crowns of corporate music-festival crowds without fear of death by embarrassment. Yet this album’s signature song might be “Coachella—Woodstock in My Mind,” which she wrote after hearing about North Korea’s missile tests and watching Father John Misty onstage in Indio, California. The concept is risible but the song works because of how gingerly, how desperately, she turns to Cold War-era youth culture to cope with modern nuclear-war fears. Similarly, the languorous Stevie Nicks duet, “Beautiful People, Beautiful Problems” adds a hint of the gothic to New Age positivity: “Green is the planet from the eyes of a turtle dove / ‘Til it runs red, runs red with blood.” And the eerie epic “Heroin” explicitly references the dread that accompanies her ’70s fetish: “Topanga’s hot today, Manson’s in the air.”
Because of its title and because of Del Rey grinning on its cover, Lust for Life has been widely received as a rare “happy” album from her. Maybe that’s wrong, though. On that cover and in some of the David LaChapelle photos, Del Rey is wearing a smile that seems oddly out of time with today—it’s nonsensical to say, but people just don’t make that face in pictures anymore. Plastered on, impossibly sunny, it’s an expression of forgotten idealism, perhaps. But it also might be a response to very old, and newly familiar, terrors.
“It was more comfortable than I could have imagined,” is how The Unit begins, with Dorrit, a single, impoverished 50-year-old woman picked up from her home in a metallic red SUV and transported to a luxury facility constructed by the government for people just like her. Her new, two-room apartment is bright and spacious, “tastefully decorated,” inside a complex that includes a theater, art studios, a cinema, a library, and gourmet restaurants. For the first time, Dorrit is surrounded by likeminded people and included rather than ostracized. At the Second Reserve Bank Unit for biological material, she’s one among a community of people who couldn’t—or didn’t want to—have children.
The cost is that, for the remaining four or five years of her life, Dorrit will be subjected to medical testing and will donate her organs one by one until her final, fatal donation. The Unit’s author, the Swedish writer Ninni Holmqvist, has imagined a society fixated on capital, but in human form. Those who have children or who work in fields like teaching and healthcare are seen as enabling growth; the childless and creative types like Dorrit, a writer, are deemed “dispensable,” removed, and forced to make their own biological contributions. The unit itself is a fantasy of government welfare for aging citizens (it offers delicious meals, culture, and companionship), but with a particularly sharp twist.
Why Women Choose Not to Have Children
And yet one of the most jarring elements of the book is the extent to which all the residents not only accept but affirm their own status. “All this luxury! How much is all this costing the taxpayer?” Dorrit’s new friend Elsa remarks, aghast, when she sees the well-appointed exercise facilities. Dorrit reiterates over and over again that she lives in a democracy, where anyone has the right to express any opinion they want to. Though the idea for “biological reserve units” was first proposed by a fringe political party, she recalls, it soon “slipped into the manifestos of some of the bigger and more established parties,” and was ultimately passed by referendum. Holmqvist’s dystopia doesn’t emerge from autocracy but from widely held beliefs about the necessity of procreation, taken to an extreme.
Holmqvist wrote The Unit, she explains in an author’s note, after she turned 45, when it occurred to her that she was “completely dispensable,” and that her death would leave “no tangible empty space behind me that needed to be filled.” As a childless woman in a creative profession, she felt compelled to write about “how it felt to be regarded as a selfish, spoiled oddball who makes no contribution to any kind of growth.” The novel, first published in English in 2009, has been recently reissued, presumably to capitalize on the feverish interest in reproductive dystopias sparked by Hulu’s Emmy-nominated adaptation of The Handmaid’s Tale. But The Unit feels like an inversion of Margaret Atwood’s Gilead, where fertile women are forcibly impregnated under biblical sanction. Here, the justification for horror—the extraction of human tissue from the childfree—is secular, a capitalist democracy demanding its toll.
Holmqvist has a particular gift for pacing, withholding full explanation from the reader for as long as possible but proffering unsettling details from the very first page. Dorrit’s clean, light apartment is monitored in its entirety by cameras. Before the SUV arrives, she explains, she considered killing herself, but didn’t have the courage. There are no windows anywhere in the unit, which appears to exist inside some kind of dome. Internet use is allowed only under supervision, and when a five-course Italian meal is served for dinner, with Parma ham, melon, and panna cotta, “only the wine was missing.”
On her first night in the facility, Dorrit meets Majken, an artist who’s lived there for four years, and who’s donated “eggs for stem-cell research, one kidney, and the auditory bone from her right ear.” Soon, Majken explains, she’ll go in to donate her pancreas “to a student nurse with four kids. So I guess this will be my last welcome party.” Majken’s matter-of-fact tone and the general strangeness of her new situation prompts Dorrit to have a panic attack, and her three new friends comfort her. And as the novel progresses, the pattern continues, with Dorrit acclimatizing to the unit and comforting new residents in turn, just as she was soothed on her first day.
* * *
The Unit contains elements that echo a number of different speculative and dystopian works. The domed environment and omnipresent cameras seem to predict Suzanne Collins’s The Hunger Games trilogy; the prospect of forcible organ donation brings to mind Kazuo Ishiguro’s Never Let Me Go, published in 2005, the year before The Unit was released in Sweden. Never Let Me Go, which tells the story of three clones raised from birth to be organ donors, ponders the humanity of genetic engineering. Holmqvist’s book, more provocatively, deals with the humanity of an ever-growing segment of the population: the childless. In her fictional society, the government has mandated 18 months of shared parental leave and free childcare for all children up to the age of 6. “There is no longer any excuse not to have children,” Dorrit states. “Nor is there any longer an excuse not to work when you have children.” The question of not wanting to do either doesn’t enter the equation; Dorrit knows, as all citizens do, that increasing the gross national product is the ultimate reason for her existence.
In this way, Holmqvist’s book functions better as a metaphor than as a warning. Practically, it isn’t necessary: There are, for instance, far more childless, “dispensable” citizens over 55 living in Europe today (at least several million) than there are people waiting for an organ transplant (63,000 in the entire European Union as of the end of 2013). A facility like the one Dorrit lives in would be prohibitively expensive to establish and maintain. But Holmqvist’s intention isn’t realism—it’s to unravel and critique assumptions about the meaning of life. Is it criminal, she wonders, to live a quiet life dedicated only to self-actualization? Do artists who never achieve greatness have value? Does every citizen have a responsibility to contribute to their society? In exploring such questions, Holmqvist takes liberal assumptions about Scandinavian paternalism versus American individualism and flips them upside down.
When Potter, an orderly, hints to Dorrit that he thinks the facility is morally wrong, she surprises him by stating that she enjoys her new life. “In here I can be myself, on every level, completely openly, without being rejected or mocked, and without the risk of not being taken seriously,” she explains. “I am not regarded as odd or as some kind of alien or some troublesome fifth wheel that people don’t know what to do with. Here I’m like everybody else. I fit in. I count. … I have a dignified life here. I am respected.” The unit has enticed her not with luxury, but with community—the sense that finally she’s not anomalous, but accepted. And as a narrator, she’s honest and intuitive enough to persuade readers that her appreciation of her new home is about much more than Stockholm syndrome.
In the last third of the novel an unexpected development comes out of the blue that offers a potential way out for Dorrit. The question is, does she want to leave? Holmqvist’s writing is spare in style, elegantly succinct, but the layers of the world she’s created are manifold. Other dystopian stories like The Handmaid’s Tale might seem particularly chilling in a moment when democracy feels like it’s under threat, but The Unit is haunting in its assertion that democracy itself isn’t enough. The tyranny of popular sentiment can be just as dangerous, Holmqvist argues, presenting scene after scene of intelligent, compassionate citizens indoctrinated into doubting their own worth.
“Life and existence have no value in themselves,” Dorrit’s friend Johannes tells her. “We mean nothing. ... The only thing of any real value is what we produce.” The question readers might ponder is whether he’s talking about art, children, or both.
This might sound hard to believe, but the notion that Americans all live in hermetic, deluded bubbles defined by their own narrow experiences existed long before anyone ever heard of social media. In the final act of the 1985 comedy Lost in America, a beleaguered yuppie named David Howard (Albert Brooks) finally gives up on his dream of quitting his job and traveling the country free of responsibilities, and walks over to the local employment office of Safford, Arizona, the sparsely populated town he’s found himself in. He defends his decision to walk away from his previous job (advertising executive) and salary (about $100,000 a year), telling the incredulous clerk, “I’ve come here to live. I’ve come to change my life.” The clerk stifles a laugh. “You couldn’t change it on $100,000?” he asks.
Lost in America, released Tuesday on Blu-ray in a shiny new Criterion Collection edition, is Brooks’s masterpiece of Reagan-era mockery, one that’s more caustic than his later comedies (Defending Your Life, Mother, The Muse) and more empathetic than his earlier ones (Real Life, Modern Romance). The plot is simple: David, passed up for a promotion, quits his job and encourages his wife Linda (Julie Hagerty) to do the same. They then buy a Winnebago, divest themselves of their property, and endeavor to see the country in a fresh way, to “touch Indians,” as David repeatedly puts it, one of his many tin-eared summations of his new life.
Remembering Garry Marshall
This still feels like a typical fantasy of the moneyed class: to dash one’s boring, predictable existence earning a solid wage and go find oneself, to get in touch with all of America rather than whatever city you’ve chosen as your gilded cage. Lost in America undercuts that foolishness not with the kind of broad comedy you’d expect: There’s no scene where David and Linda encounter some aggressive, slack-jawed yokels, no patronizing humor aimed at the “real America” they’re seeking to travel through. The rest of the country is just like them, deeply mediocre. What sets David and Linda apart is their naive belief that they can change that, something Brooks sees as entirely futile.
Brooks has long been America’s most pessimistic comedian, the one who’s least interested in having his audiences learn an easy lesson. His most upbeat conclusion to a film probably comes in 1991’s Defending Your Life, in which the central couple that finally gets together is already dead (that film is set in the afterlife). This bleak approach is perhaps why Brooks never quite rose above cult status through his most fertile creative period (the ’80s and early ’90s). There are elements of his nervy, neurotic characters in the oeuvres of so many comic giants working in cinema and television today—Judd Apatow, Dan Harmon, Lena Dunham, and Louis C.K. come to mind. But watch a Brooks movie today and you’ll marvel at his lack of gimmickry, his joy at wringing laughs from straightforward, repetitive dialogue, and his refusal to give his narratives a happy ending.
Brooks understands that the Reaganite mores he’s poking at speaks to a larger, nationwide existential crisis. Like so many others in his generation, David has achieved apparent success yet derives no pleasure from it. He’s thus maniacal about everything he sets himself to, be it the promotion he ends up not getting (which sparks a hilarious, minutes-long tantrum, perfectly played by Brooks) or the particular ways in which he plans on relaxing once he’s quit his job. “I’m insane and responsible. This is a potent combination,” he warns Linda, who is trapped in her own oppressive stasis.
Linda’s boredom spins into chaos during a pit stop at Las Vegas, where she gambles away the couple’s entire $180,000 nest egg at the roulette table in a night. If Lost in America has a high-concept set piece, it’s this: David waking up, going downstairs to the casino in horror, and being taken aside by the manager (a superb Garry Marshall) and told he’s now flat broke. This comes 40 minutes into the movie and 10 minutes into the couple’s planned cross-country trip, completely blowing up the film’s conventional-seeming narrative and never rebuilding it. When confronted, Linda can’t explain her actions, only saying that she, too, had something eating away at her inside.
Lost in America resists being a cloying fantasy of two rich Americans getting in touch with a different way of life and changing their outlook. Everything after this early disaster is a scramble: David and Linda constantly fight (with David’s “nest egg” rant a thrilling high point), they break up only to quickly reunite after Linda hitches a ride with an ex-convict, and they end up in a trailer park in Arizona, where Linda takes a job at the local Der Wienerschnitzel while David is tormented by teens as a minimum-wage crossing guard. The film is funny, of course, but not loudly so—there are no silly chase sequences, no explicit sexual escapades, nothing that feels geared toward standing out in a trailer or on a poster.
No, the ultimate joke is on viewers who might scoff at David’s foolishness while nursing similar anxieties about the possibility of finding fulfillment. Indeed, Brooks sneaks in a little poke at the crowd by opening the film with an overheard radio interview of the legendary critic Rex Reed, who complains about the laugh-out-loud mob mentality of a comedy-movie audience. Chuckle all you want, Brooks is saying—but that doesn’t mean you’re too different from his protagonist. After just weeks on the road, David and Linda resolve to fix their new crisis (a lack of money) by begging for their old jobs back, and it works, though their salaries are slightly reduced. That’s what amounts to a (relatively) happy ending for Brooks: a depressing return to the status quo.
In the pilot episode of The Bold Type, the dramedy that premiered this month on Freeform, Kat Edison, the social media director for the women’s magazine Scarlet, tries to convince an edgy artist to participate in a story highlighting her work. The artist, Adena El-Amin, is also a feminist, and she initially scoffs at the idea of collaborating with the Cosmo-esque publication: Adena has no interest, she tells Kat, in having her work featured in an outlet devoted to informing women “about clothes and makeup and how to get boys.”
Kat nods knowingly. She’s heard this objection before. And she knows exactly what to say in reply to this “common misconception.” When Jacqueline, the magazine’s current editor-in-chief, took over its leadership, Kat tells Adena, “she shifted the magazine” in its focus and, indeed, in its feminism. “It’s no longer about how to please your man—or woman—in bed,” Kat insists. “It’s about how to please yourself.” Scarlet, she explains, despite and because of its reputation, embraces what Jacqueline calls “stealth feminism.”
What Does a Girlboss Look Like?
This is one of the many ideas The Bold Type and its vaguely fictionalized lady-mag have ported, wholesale, from the world of actual magazines and actual politics. “Stealth feminism,” of course, was not coined by a fictional person atop a fictional masthead; it has long been a topic of conversation—and controversy—both within and about the very types of publications Scarlet magazine is meant to evoke: magazines aimed at women in general and at Millennial women in particular. Magazines that sell, on the whole, a very particular brand of commercialized “empowerment.” Magazines in whose pages, paper or digital, the logic of feminism often chafes against the logic of capitalism: You go, girl, but you’d probably go a little harder if you were wearing a bold shade of CoverGirl Outlast All-Day Lip Color.
Jacqueline’s feminism-via-furtiveness, similarly, suggests an approach that is simultaneously bold and bashful—a political movement that, shifty as it is about its own purpose, cannot fully be a movement at all. It’s fitting: The Bold Type reflects Cosmopolitan, and the women’s magazine as a genre, not just as a setting—iMacs! fashion closets! work stilettos!—but also as a kind of philosophy. The show is, like the magazine, slightly anxious about its place in the world. And that’s in part because American feminism itself, in the era of Lean In and Gamergate and “grab ‘em by the pussy,” is itself, once again, finding its future.
* * *
Cosmo, née The Cosmopolitan, was founded in 1886. It began as a family magazine: It focused on literature, for parents and children alike, with additional advice about the cultivation of a happy home. The magazine’s fiction pages soon came to attract writers like Willa Cather, Mark Twain, and H.G. Wells—a fecund literary period that lasted until it was purchased, in 1905, by William Randolph Hearst, who re-shaped it as a journalistic outfit (or, well, “journalistic”: The magazine generally catered to Hearst’s opinions and ambitions). After a period, beginning in the 1920s and ’30s, that found the magazine returned once again to its literary roots—Cosmopolitan published work, at this point, from Sinclair Lewis, W. Somerset Maugham, and others—it faltered.
By the 1960s, the magazine was teetering on the brink of dissolution. A new editor, a woman who had never been an editor before, proposed a new vision for Cosmo—the vision that still informs the magazine’s current array of sex tips and fashion advice and political reporting. Helen Gurley Brown, the businesswoman and the author of Sex and the Single Girl, made Cosmo over, and largely in her own image. Under Brown’s leadership, the former literary magazine became cheerfully radical: Here was frank talk about sex. Here was journalism myopically concerned with the perspectives and cares and lives of women. Here was a magazine that became, in many ways, synonymous with the women’s movement itself.
Through the decades afterward, Cosmo was a source of empowerment and a source of controversy: The magazine celebrated women, but tended as well to focus its celebrations on only one very particular type of woman. The magazine that paid homage to the Fun(!) Fearless(!) Female(!) could also, through its fairly narrow definition of fun and fearlessness, alienate. Cosmo could be narrow-minded. It could be a little judge-y.
But The Bold Type, in patterning Scarlet so thoroughly, and so recognizably, after Cosmo, seems keenly aware of all that. It revels in the complexity, and the contradiction, that the Cosmo of 2017 in so many ways represents. Scarlet’s offices host many conversations like the one Kat had with Adena—about double standards, about sexism, about feminism. The publishing company that owns Scarlet is named not Hearst, but rather, yep, Steinem. And in one episode, Jane Sloan, an up-and-coming writer at Scarlet, reveals to Jacqueline that, though she grew up with Scarlet—though she regarded it almost like “an older sister”—she sometimes also felt shamed by the magazine, unable to live up to its lofty vision of effortless feminine perfection. Jacqueline nods. She’s heard it before.
Jacqueline is a lightly fictionalized version of Joanna Coles, who was until 2016 the real-world editor of Cosmo and who currently serves as The Bold Type’s executive producer. The show’s writers and producers apparently spent time, during the creation process, at the actual Cosmo offices in Manhattan, getting a feel for the place and its people and its rhythms. Perhaps as a result of all that, fact and fiction tangled up in the glamour of Cosmo as a brand, the simulacrum presented on Freeform can sometimes scan, as The Ringer’s Alison Herman wrote, as beautifully produced propaganda for the original. (We’re still relevant! the magazine, via the TV show, insists. Stealth feminism, right, ladies?)
But the truest reflection of Cosmo—its past, and its present—might be the show’s soap-operatic nods to go-girl feminism, and its attendant and self-congratulatory references to career ambition, patriarchy-smashing, and, via a meeting in which editors and sales executives discuss an upcoming issue of Scarlet, “vajayjays.” (As a marketing poster for the show puts it, “I’M NOT A BOSS BITCH. I’M A BOSS, BITCH.”)
None of this is subtle. It is the televisual equivalent of a Cosmo cover: bold of color, busy of text, knowing of smize. But it is also, however, a marked transformation from the stereotypical treatment of women’s magazines in pop culture—treatments, usually, that view such magazines not as philosophies to be embraced, but rather as problems to be solved.
There have been on the one hand the visions of Vogue that have come in The Devil Wears Prada (via the fictional Runway), and in Ugly Betty (Mode), and in Confessions of a Shopaholic (Alette)—each one, in its way, gently satirizing the ur-fashion magazine’s apex-predator status atop the sartorial food chain. (Cerulean!) But the most savage satire has been saved for Cosmo and its counterparts. In How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, Composure magazine is flighty and superficial and self-absorbed. (“I haven’t eaten since the split,” Michelle, a staffer, admits of her breakup. “Good for you,” Lana, Composure’s editor, replies. “Write about it.”) Poise, in 13 Going on 30, gets a similar treatment. So does Blush in Just Shoot Me!. The fictional magazines, according to the shows that have created them, are embodiments of regressive ideals of feminine achievement. They are mockable precisely because they are, as Adena assumes of Scarlet, “about clothes and makeup and how to get boys.”
But Scarlet, as Kat insists, is only partly about that. And the point is that, as a publication and an institution, it wants to be about so much more. (Sample Scarlet cover lines in a mock-up displayed in The Bold Type’s premiere episode: “Do What You Love, Score a Fat Paycheck #jobgoals,” “Sweat away stress: Get happy and healthy,” “KICK MORE ASS! At work, at the gym, in bed.”) Here is the women’s magazine, trying to keep up. Here is Cosmo, by way of its fictional analog, serving as a proxy for women’s progress. Beauty, community, activism, values, #jobgoals—each issue of the magazine, each tweet and snap and newly refreshed homepage, takes the measure of things. Each offers a glimpse of how far American women have come—and, indeed, how far they have yet to go.
***
The Bold Type is extremely (and sometimes over-acutely) aware of Cosmo’s role as a kind of cultural status update. Jacqueline, in particular, Scarlet’s powerful editor-in-chief, embraces the Joanna Colesian model: She cares not just about women as aesthetic objects, but about women as complicated and multitude-containing people. (And also: consumers.) As a result, while the editor of Scarlet may be as powerful as Miranda Priestly and as stylish as Lana Jong, she is also a caring mentor to the staffers in her orbit. Jacqueline will challenge her underlings, not out of cruelty but out of concern for their careers. She will nurture them. She will assure them that all of it—the stilettos, the new sex positions, the liquid eyeliner that creates the perfect cat eye—is explored in her magazine not out of service to the male gaze, but out of service to feminism. Stealth feminism.
“For those of you who say we are just a ... magazine,” Jacqueline tells her staff, during the Scarlet gala that serves as the dramatic culmination of The Bold Type’s premiere, “I say: Here’s some great mascara.” She pauses, dramatically. “It’ll open your eyes so you can see the world.”
It’s a far cry from Lana, in How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days, who values the eye-opening effects of mascara in a much more literal way. Here’s how Lana mentors Andie, the graduate of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism whose ambition renders her, the movie goes out of its way to insist, so much better than Composure magazine deserves:
Lana: Congratulations. This shows me you’re ready to be unleashed. From now on, feel free to write about anything.
Andie: Anything?
Lana: Wherever the wind blows you.
Andie: Even politics?
Lana: Well, the wind’s not going to blow you there.
Andie: What about religion, poverty, economics?
Lana: This wind is really more of a light breeze.
Jacqueline is not Lana. She cares about more than clothes, about more than makeup, about more than sex. She cares about politics. She cares about empowerment. She cares about feminism. She is the editor of Scarlet in the age of Teen Vogue. And she revels in the tension that inevitably results from that juxtaposition: between fashion as superficiality and fashion as self expression, between sex for pleasure and sex for pleasing, between feminism that is full-throated and feminism that is stealthy. The Bold Type—its title is as aspirational as it is descriptive—wants, deeply, to value fearlessness. And so does the magazine that is its setting and its inspiration. As Jacqueline puts it at Scarlet’s gala, to a room of (mostly) young women who are so, so ready to be empowered: “I expect you to unleash holy hell on anyone who would hold you back.”

Megaplexes this past weekend staged a battle between two very different battle movies: the realistic World War II suspense of Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk and the campy sci-fi hijinks of Luc Besson’s Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets. Fueled by great reviews and Nolan’s bankable brand as a filmmaker, Dunkirk prevailed with a $50.5 million haul while Valerian, at just $17 million in grosses, seems headed the heap of recent space-adventure bombs. Still, it’s notable how both films, vastly unalike in tone and reception, did share one feature other than their release date—a megafamous musician in their ensemble.
Devoted fans of One Direction have tracked the progress of Dunkirk for more than a year thanks to it being the first major acting job for Harry Styles, the 23-year-old frontman of that currently suspended boy band. Valerian has made Rihanna, arguably the reigning queen of pop, a major feature of its marketing campaign. The tradition of singers attaining “multihyphenate” status by way of Hollywood is richly uneven, encompassing award-winners like Cher in Moonstruck and trainwrecks like Mariah Carey in Glitter. Styles’s and Rihanna’s simultaneous gigs, taken together, offer a neat case study in the two poles of musicians-as-actors: the serious bid perhaps en route to an eventual EGOT and the winking extended cameo meant for fans, fun, and profit.
The newer star, Styles, appears to be on the hunt for prestige. Arguably the most crucial dialogue of Dunkirk, a nerve-wracking audiovisual riff that has almost no crucial dialogue, belongs to him. Playing a British soldier named Alex, he gets to ask the question at the very heart of the film: Is mere survival victory? He’s also pivotal to a harrowing scene about another big theme, the moral compromises that people in danger must consider. Earlier, his curiosity leads to a rare explanation for one of the many inexplicable activities on screen: There’s a good reason, Alex finds, that one fellow soldier doesn’t take up an enticing offer of jam and tea after they board a rescue ship.
Styles actually has a bigger role than he’s been billed as having in Christopher Nolan’s press tour. “We’re not trying to oversell Harry in the movie for the specific reason that it’s an ensemble,” Nolan told Entertainment Weekly. “We don’t want people who are huge fans of his being disappointed that he’s not in it enough. … It’s not cartoonish. … [His performance] almost risks being missed because what it’s actually doing.” Eh. In the cast’s subgroup of casually pretty slender young Brits playing privates, Styles is ever-so-slightly prettier than the rest, and as previously mentioned, he does some important things. You won’t miss him.
But Nolan’s comments do speak to a more fundamental aspect of Styles’s role in Dunkirk. Surely the musician wanted to blend in: What better way to prove one’s actorly credibility than to seem anonymous when you really have more than 30 million Twitter followers? Whether you, the viewer, will have the movie’s spell broken by his presence likely relies less on his performance, which is good, than on your relationship to Styles. If you’re a One Direction obsessive or a parent of one, the exquisite tension of Nolan’s filmcraft may be cut by the memory of the chirpy “What Makes You Beautiful” clashing with Hans Zimmer’s tick-tocking score. If you’re anyone else, though, Styles will have achieved his goal: He is seen but not disruptive, important but not eclipsing.  
Since One Direction went on hiatus in 2016, Styles hasn’t quite walked the typical frontboy’s route to solo stardom. He left the Timberlake-ian dance-floor seductions to Zayn Malik and Niall Horan and instead recorded a set of classic-rock tunes more fascinating to dissect for influences than to listen to. That album seemed to signal an interest in doing something other than just chasing hits. His Dunkirk turn is a clear additional attempt to diversify his portfolio and explore nonmusical opportunities afforded by celebrityhood. A director in need of an unkempt waif-guy and competent line deliverer might see Dunkirk and decide, quite defensibly, to cast him—with the increased publicity from fans of Styles’s musical efforts being a welcome bonus.
***
For an opposite approach to musicians moonlighting as actors, look to Rihanna’s turn in the joyfully gonzo Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets. The platinum-selling singer doesn’t just slip into the fabric of this extremely crowded, extremely fun movie. Rather, two-thirds of the way through, it grinds to a halt and gives her an extended solo performance as the alien Bubble, a shape-shifter executing eye-popping cabaret in a space-station brothel. She has an important role to play for maybe 15 more minutes. After that, Rihanna exits as definitively as she might a billionaire’s birthday she’d been booked to play.
Hers is the kind of gig that bolsters and amplifies the star’s main brand rather than expands it. Rihanna is basically playing a version of herself, in another world. The conceit that Bubble can become any kind of entertainer she wants—flapper, nurse, schoolgirl—plays on the post-Madonna way of chameleonic divas that Rihanna has so successfully followed. She also gets to synergize with her recent spur of political outspokenness because Bubble, we learn, is an intergalactic illegal immigrant forced to live in the shadows. Valerian is extremely lighthearted, but this aspect adds a hint of tragedy: She appears to be a sex slave held hostage by her immigration status. (There’s a similar tonal discordance in the movie’s larger plot that concerns horrendous genocide and ecological destruction.)
When Rihanna has to speak and not sing, you’re uncomfortably reminded, unlike with Styles, that delivering dialogue convincingly is not her forte. And the fact that Bubble becomes a CGI creation for extended stretches carries with it the suggestion that Rihanna only gave Valerian a short bit of time on set and did the rest of her job in the vocal booth. But despite the impression that this role is a bit phoned-in, Rihanna-as-Bubble is an utter charmer. Valerian is stuffed with special-effects baubles and high-concept gags: A hitmaker and fashion icon parachuting in is, in this sense, fitting. She delivers the glittery surface entertainment that a pop star is supposed to—and that this movie so unapologetically, so winningly, revels in.
Both Styles’s and Rihanna’s examples highlight how when you’ve got a non-actor whose face is recognizable across the globe, simply showing up and melting into the on-screen crowd isn’t an option. The singer needs to either work to nail the acting—or work to nail being themselves. For a cautionary tale about not quite doing either, look to Ed Sheeran, the English superstar strummer who appeared in the season premiere of Game of Thrones to many online WTFs.
Sheeran’s scene began with him singing and then cracking a meta, nonsensical joke about the tune being “a new one.” So far, so campy. But then he became an unassuming presence, simply chomping on rabbit and mumbling in agreement with some other Lannister soldiers. The scene didn’t prove itself plot-essential enough to justify the viewer’s cognitive dissonance, and for a moment Thrones’s spell was broken and Sheeran’s everyguy persona took a dent. He should either have not sung at all, or he should have totally hammed it up: the way of Styles, or the way of Bubble.
This post contains light spoilers through Season 2, Episode 1 of Insecure.
Issa and Lawrence are sitting across from each other in a dimly lit restaurant. “You know, I get why you did what you did now,” he tells her. Issa nods. “And it hurts,” Lawrence continues. “But hopefully we can move past it.”
Issa smiles. It’s exactly, it seems, what she’d been wanting to hear. And then: “What?” she says.
“I said, are you originally from here?”
The Golden Age of the TV Bathroom
With that, Issa (Issa Rae) snaps out of her reverie. She is not, it turns out, sharing a romantic meal with Lawrence (Jay Ellis), the ex-boyfriend she cheated on, and the ex-boyfriend who is still sort of in her life, and the ex-boyfriend she still wants back. Issa is instead, in the Sunday premiere of the second season of Insecure, sitting at that table with a total stranger: a guy she met through Tinder (or maybe Hinge, or maybe Bumble, or maybe one of the other services that has transformed Issa’s phone into a buzzing catalog of suitors who are at once omnipresent and extremely far away). This particular guy is anonymous, to the viewer. And he will remain that way. The real point of the scene is not who he is, but who he is not.
Lawrence, here but not-there: It’s the kind of fake-out Insecure is so consummately skilled at executing—the kind that the show’s Season 1 finale deployed with such gut-wrenching precision (Lawrence! In that other apartment, and in that other bed!). Issa’s date-dream, which serves as the cold open to Sunday’s episode of Insecure, also serves as jarring evidence of her new situation: Issa, technically, is now single. She’s been that way for months. And yet, in the more immediate sense, she’s not fully single at all. She still wants Lawrence. She’s dating, sure, but her heart isn’t in it.
“I don’t want to be here, but my ex won’t take me back,” Issa raps in an aside during several more anonymous dates with several more anonymous Tindermen—a composite set at different restaurants that are dimly lit and romantic in feel and, effectively, the same place. “So my broken ass is here, small-talking over apps.”
Insecure, overall, is a show that is deeply interested in the here—in the way locations, and circumstances in general, shape people’s lives. The tension that results, one place chafing against another, is where the show’s title itself comes from, Rae once explained—“we wanted to kind of paint that this character is in between two worlds and is just in a constant state of discomfort”—and it’s one that manifests not only in Insecure’s storylines, but also in its production values. That’s one of the elements that make Insecure such a stand-out series, one of the best TV shows in an environment crowded with great ones: the attention it pays to geography, and architecture, and interior design, and the physical spaces its characters inhabit. Many of the show’s scenes begin with quick-cut montages that serve not only to locate their action within particular settings, but also to emphasize the constraints of location itself: Whatever action is about to occur will to some extent be shaped by the spot where the scene is set.
In its Season 2 premiere, Insecure extends that idea: Singleness here, too, becomes a space that characters live in. “Single” is, Insecure is suggesting, not merely a status, in that reductive, drop-down-menu way that Facebook—another omnipresent space in the show—conceives it. “Single” is instead a space to be navigated and negotiated. It carries certain expectations. It makes certain demands.
That’s already been the case for Molly (Yvonne Orji), Issa’s best friend, who began Season 1 reeling from the engagement of a coworker—and who spent much of the rest of the season’s episodes worrying, in various ways, that coupledom might not happen for her. But now, after her breakup with Lawrence, Issa has joined Molly in that space—and her singleness has become for the moment, it seems, the salient fact of Issa’s life. It takes over her conversations with Molly. It leads her to throw a party, and to ask each guest to bring a plus-one. It crosses over into her efforts to bring We Got Y’All, the educational nonprofit she works for, to a new school that seems to have no interest in its services. (“Sometimes you just have to know when to give up,” Frieda (Lisa Joyce), Issa’s co-worker, says; she’s talking about the school, but the show allows the observation to adopt a kind of doubleness—as a commentary about Issa’s relationship.)
And: Issa’s newly single status becomes a matter of physical space, as well. Issa, still, sleeps on a single pillow, on her half of the bed she used to share with Lawrence. She sits on the couch she and Lawrence bought together—the piece of furniture that once symbolized the renewal of their relationship. She keeps dating apps constantly fired up on her phone, ensuring that men flexing and ab-revealing and smiling in bathroom mirrors runs like a visual refrain as she watches TV, gets ready for bed, and lives her life—even though she rejects almost all of them. And when Issa does swipe right, she returns, again and again, to that dimly lit, composite restaurant: Different outfits, different men, but otherwise—place-wise—the same. She’s meeting new guys, but she’s not getting to know them; she is going on dates, but she is not really dating. She’s there, but she’s not really there.
It’s a typically nuanced take for Insecure, a show that rejects easy tropes and revels, instead, in complexity. While many of its fellow comedies treat newfound singleness as a matter of tragedy and melodrama (tears, couches, tubs of ice cream) or of insistent liberation (clubs, hookups, pep talks from friends), Insecure is offering something much more subtle, and much more realistic: singleness treated as a simple fact of life. And singleness that is, in its own way, unsure of itself and insecure. Is it good for Issa, or bad, that she’s single? How long will she stay that way? How will it change her? And should Lawrence take her back?
Lawrence, too, as Season 2 begins, is trying his singleness on for size. He’s dating Tasha (Dominique Perry), the bubbly bank teller he chose over Issa at the end of Season 1. But he is only dating Tasha. As his friend Chad (Neil Brown Jr.) diagnoses the situation: “Roll in on Fridays, smash all weekend, bounce on Sunday.” Chad adds, approvingly: “It’s low-maintenance, efficient, all upside.”
It’s not all upside, though—as becomes very clear at the twist-y end of the show’s Sunday premiere. Lawrence, too, is slightly uncomfortable in his singleness. He spends the episode sleeping on an air mattress in Chad’s living room, unable to commit to renting a new place on his own—a new place without Issa in it. Which is to say that, in many ways, the beginning of Season 2 of Insecure finds both Issa and Lawrence in the same place the beginning of Season 1 did: They are, both together and separately, caught in a rut. For Issa, dating is too much work. (“I’ve got to be cute, and careful, and witty, and charming,” Issa tells Molly. “It’s a lot.”) And for Lawrence, dating is almost too easy. (“We’re both having fun,” he tells Chad. “No pressure.”) The question the premiere has set up—the question that is a matter of geography as much as it’s a matter of romance—is whether the two will be able, once again, to meet in the middle.

It was pretty, pretty, pretty exciting to learn last week that one of cable’s favorite curmudgeons will return to television this fall. After six years off the air, Larry David—the Seinfeld co-creator known more recently for his Bernie Sanders impression on Saturday Night Live—will bring his hit HBO series Curb Your Enthusiasm back for a ninth season on October 1. But if that release date seems too far off for those avid fans counting the days, there’s another comedy that could fill the void until then.
Cazzie David, the 23-year-old daughter of the Curb creator, has teamed up with a friend from college, Elisa Kalani, to make a web series called Eighty-Sixed. Though just six episodes have been released on YouTube this year, Eighty-Sixed already fits well into a new generation of shows channeling the mockingly self-centered humor that defines Curb. When it premiered in 2000, Curb Your Enthusiasm was unlike anything on television, though some of Seinfeld’s comedic sensibility came through. Shot in a cinema-verité style and largely improvised, Curb followed a fictionalized version of Larry David as he managed to alienate just about everyone he ran into. With his obnoxious nitpicking and disregard for basic etiquette, David’s character was comfortable being self-righteous and offensive at the same time.
All Hail the Return of Curb Your Enthusiasm
Eighty-Sixed, which came out with its first four episodes in April and another two earlier this month, clearly comes from the Curb school of dry, cynical humor. The still under-the-radar series wryly comments on narcissistic, social-media-obsessed millennial life by following Cazzie David’s character, Remi, as she recovers from a break-up (hence the title). Remi lives in her own bubble in L.A., a world where work or interests outside her small circle of two friends, Owen and Lily, seemingly don’t exist. The episodes, which are well-produced and mostly shorter than 10 minutes, so far feature Remi lounging about at home in pajamas, taking hikes, eating out, and going to parties. But at the center of this rather mundane existence is her fixation on portraying a deceptively carefree image of herself on social media in order to convince her ex she’s over him. As Remi explains to a friend in the first episode: “I care because I’m kind of trying to curate an image of me not caring.”
Like Curb, Eighty-Sixed delights in uncovering and ridiculing the subtle hypocrisies of social conventions. While the series may take a little while to grow on its audience, it’s clever, with plenty of entertaining and cringe-worthy observational moments. Some of the funniest bits cover the informal rules that dictate the digital habits of Remi’s age group: recreating certain moments to capture them perfectly for Instagram (it’s okay to re-light birthday candles if it’s for a Boomerang), taking the necessary steps when someone else accidentally posts something that’s too revealing (driving over to demand access to their Facebook isn’t overkill), and determining how many people per table can be on their phones at a restaurant. In one scene, Remi begs her friend to get off his phone, so that she can go on hers: “We’re literally a table of three millennials on their phones. It’s, like, a really embarrassing stereotype I’m not trying to perpetuate.”
In a Vanity Fair article from last fall, Cazzie David detailed the similar balancing act that goes into maintaining her very popular personal Instagram. Photo captions, for example, should “show how ‘little thought’ went into posting the photo, even though a ton of thought went into it because you are following these rules,” she wrote, offering a glimpse into her peers’ preoccupation with the illusion of social media and a preview of Eighty-Sixed’s premise.
In the third episode, when David and Kalani’s writing really starts to hit its stride, Eighty-Sixed parodies the delicate dance of who can upload what photo from what party on what platform (and what message that action sends). Not wanting to seem desperate by posting a party photo too soon after her breakup, and after her friends refuse to ruin their carefully arranged Facebook and Instagram profiles with such a posed, “basic” photo, Remi ends up asking a total stranger to upload and tag her in the photo. By taking it to ridiculous, but familiar, Curb-level extremes, Remi’s character is both critiquing the shallowness of a screen-centered existence and fully admitting to her own complicity in it.
Indeed, some scenes play like Curb redux: In one, the germaphobic Remi refuses to share her water with a thirsty hiking buddy: “I just don’t know why I should be punished because you forgot to bring water.” In another, Remi scolds her friends Owen and Lily for not getting “solidarity [ice cream] cones” in sympathy as she grieves her breakup. Minutes later, as her friends console a friend who’s just learned that her mom has a tumor, Remi stares straight-ahead, nonchalantly licking her ice cream cone.
This scene calls to mind a similar and classic Curb scene from Season 6: Larry David licks his own ice cream cone, while pausing to guilt a friend in mourning for not returning a condolence call, and to complain trivially about his ice cream melting. When the friend tries to pay back Larry some money he owes, Larry refuses to take it—not because of the nominal amount or because his friend is grieving—but because he’s disgusted that the friend pulls the bill out of his sweaty running shoe. The younger David and Kalani’s writing often seems inspired by a formula the Curb creator laid out for his show: “I like to take the small things and make them big. And I like to take the big things, like disease and death, and make them small.”
Remi, too, likes to flip social norms. While she obsesses over the filters she puts on her online persona, she lacks any in real life, often delivering lines in a dyspeptic monotone. She’s hyper-aware of how she’s perceived online, but rarely notices how her actions affect others. Like Curb’s Larry, Remi is blunt and pushy, with little consideration of boundaries. Larry David has said his character is how he’d act if there were no social constraints, and that the caricature is a mouthpiece for “all the things that we think about that we can’t say.”
A much younger misanthrope, Remi navigates a shifting, contentious relationship with those closest to her and doesn’t hesitate to call others out for behavior she’s also guilty of. When a friend pulls out of plans, she scoffs at his excuse: “Oh you don’t feel ‘100’? Who ever feels ‘100’? I’ve never felt above 72 in my life.” To leave a party early when her friends won’t oblige, she tries to sabotage the mood by switching the music from Migos to classical. And Owen’s suggestion to call a Lyft offends Remi: “Honestly, I can’t believe you would just like throw me in a car with a pink mustache on it when I’m this vulnerable.”
Though Eighty-Sixed shares comedic DNA with Curb (as do a ton of other shows), it’s very much in line with the current comedy landscape. The genre has been particularly kind to web series by young female creators like David lately: Issa Rae’s Awkward Black Girl was developed by HBO into Insecure, whose second season returned Sunday. Curb’s home network also picked up the web series Brown Girls, which is debuting its first season this fall. Next month will bring the fourth-season premiere of Comedy Central’s Broad City, formerly a popular web series by Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson; that show’s self-absorbed millennial characters call to mind Eighty-Sixed’s Remi, but also the leads of acclaimed shows like Girls and You’re the Worst.
While fans wait for Curb’s return—and for two new episodes of Eighty-Sixed arriving in September—it’s fun to watch the two series together as a sort of generational box set. As David Sr. mines the humorous tension between propriety and brutal honesty, the entertaining tension in Remi’s character comes from her caring what people think of her online but not caring what they think of her in real life when, perhaps—as Larry repeatedly finds out—that might be a good idea.
Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, three Atlantic staffers will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Spencer Kornhaber: Game of Thrones ended its latest episode with a good-old-fashion pirate ambush, eliminating two out of three of the Sand Snakes and subjecting Theon to a humiliating self-directed walk of the plank. As far as late-episode twists go, Euron Greyjoy’s at-sea ambush was a solid one, injecting real suspense and unsettling violence into what had seemed like a straightforward sail. Yet, in the end, it was also a typical Thrones-ian calamity: You’d best bet against the side you want to win.
Game of Thrones Gears Up for the Wars Still to Come
Not all is lost for Daenerys’s fleet, though. The Sand Snakes are just one reptile now—but, to be the most frank, weren’t three sassy warriors a bit difficult to keep track of anyway? Theon may still doggy paddle to safety, and Ellaria and Yara, so rudely interrupted before they consummated friends-with-benefit status, aren’t yet confirmed fish food. Bonus expectation fulfillment: Euron got to make like all great Thrones villains and giggle maniacally while covered in blood.
The episode-ending battle at sea also highlighted a larger issue with this episode and perhaps with all of Thrones going forward. We’re in turbo mode: Game pieces are flying across the tables of various Westerosi war rooms, and certain details need to be yada-yada’d. So you might ask, wouldn’t a fleet primarily composed of rebels against Euron Greyjoy proceed with heightened concern that Euron Greyjoy might try to attack them? What’s responsible for the ambush—Cersei’s suitor’s craftiness, or Daenerys’s henchwomen’s incompetence? The answers probably don’t matter. Focus instead, the show increasingly asks, on the big map.
What’s clear is that Daenerys’s surgical strike—outlined toward the beginning of the episode—isn’t going to unfold in as lovely and uncomplicated a fashion as, say, the love scene between Grey Worm and Missandei did. But the underlying point of the Dragonstone deliberations remains relevant. In the competing advice of Tyrion the “clever man” (advocating bloodless conquest) and Olenna the battle-hardened “dragon” (encouraging total war), Thrones reiterated its core conflict between righteousness and realpolitik. But it also turned its attention back to a fascinating uniter of those two approaches: Varys.
Daenerys’s interrogation of the so-called Spider served as a history refresher on his character, but it also clarified what’s made his strategy special all along. He’ll stab any regent in the back, but he’ll do it with a noble purpose. Khaleesi, for now, seems to see the promise of this practical-yet-principled approach in a world where the self-interested keep preying upon the oathbound. The viewer may note how such a philosophy is reflected in other characters. Take Jaime Lannister, who keeps taking heat from the likes of Sam’s dad because he kingslayed for the greater good. But does Melisandre, the surprise visitor to Dragonstone, really have a divine mission? Or, as the question has been since she first appeared in Thrones, is she simply a charlatan leaping between would-be monarchs?
Up north, Jon Snow has the opposite sort of perception problem. He’s still being viewed by many of those around him as a typical Stark: naively trusting of human nature, ready to strike bargains and cede power just to be a honorable guy. Even his loyal prodigy Lyanna Mormont thinks he’s a rube to answer Dany’s summons in person. But as Snow tells his council, he’s coming from a perspective they don’t—but the viewer does—understand: He's seen the army of the dead. Yes, he's tempting the same fate as his grandfather in meeting with a Targaryen, but it’s because he truly thinks it’s the best bet to save the skin of himself, his people, and the realm at large.
One serious possible strategic error on Jon’s part, though: Not making nice with Petyr Baelish. Despite Sansa’s frostiness toward him, the Lord of the Vale may still hold real sway over the ruler of the North that Jon has just appointed. Even if not, Baelish has an army—as well as ambition unchecked by the idealism espoused by his longtime foil Varys. Additionally, he’s obsessed with Catelyn Stark, who, as we were reminded by their conversation in the presence of a B-minus stone tribute to Ned Stark, was no fan of Jon’s.
It’s probably no coincidence that the scene between Jon and Littlefinger took place in the crypt of Winterfell just like how Qyburn’s weapons demonstration for Cersei took place in the bowels of King’s Landing. The subterranean locales fit with the episode’s larger focus on secrets, politics, and history: Save for the final nautical skirmish, most of the movement we saw on screen seemed to be building foundation for future action. Dany assembled a neat—if, it now appears, abortive—plan for a two-front war. The Lannisters tried to rally the few lords who might be loyal to them while searching out ways to deal with that pesky dragons issue (still unclear: what makes Qyburn’s ballista so special).
Some of tonight’s smaller moments will also, possibly, come to be seen as important foundation. We’re now two-for-two in season 7 episodes that feature disgusting Sam sequences, and while it seems dubious that slicing Ser Jorah’s skin will result in anything other than the would-be maester also being infected with greyscale, it's possible that the search for a cure will bring these characters to where young Shireen Baratheon was healed: Dragonstone. (Also of note from the Sam plotline was the meta joke about his mentor writing A Song of Ice and Fire under a much less catchy title.)
Then there was Arya facing down wolves, mysteriously. I haven’t read the George R.R. Martin’s books—I know you have, David—but everyone tells me the later volumes spend a lot of time with a pack of feral canines. I assume her meet-up in the woods was partly a reference to that story, but Arya’s closing line—“that’s not you”—would seem to indicate that Nymaria isn’t rejoining the ensemble. Or was the whole scene somehow just an Ed Sheeran reference?
Finally, though it’s admittedly tired to compare this show and current events, some news parallels can’t go un-noted. I couldn’t have been the only one who thought the conversation between Dany and Varys had an whiff of recent debates over “loyalty” vs. “honest loyalty,” no? Nor could I have been the only one to feel Missandei was throwing out a think-piece prompt by by saying the “the prince that was promised” actually could be any gender. And was it not sorta familiar how xenophobia and expedience swirled together as Cersei and Jaime made a pitch to fight against Dothraki and Unsullied? David, bring me back to escapism, and please also give an excuse for Theon escaping.
David Sims: Ah, Spencer, you expected too much of poor Theon, or should I say, Reek. His goodbye to Yara was a bleak little mirror image of Arya’s little showdown with her former companion Nymeria. When Arya last left her direwolf, she was a girl playing with wooden swords, and Nymeria was a barely tamed beast biting at Prince Joffrey. Now, Arya is a cool-blooded assassin, and Nymeria is even more feral, far too wild and free to serve even as a threatening companion to a returning Stark warrior in Winterfell. The look between them said it all—our animal natures are hard to shed.
The same went for poor Theon as his nasty uncle Euron dared him to take up the sword and try and rescue Yara. Try as he might, Theon’s not about to play the noble warrior—his bravest action up until now had been taking Sansa’s hand and jumping with her off the ramparts at Winterfell. In the face of a familiar brand of chaos (Euron is a 1980s goth version of Ramsay Bolton), Theon jumped again, hoping to live to fight another day. Lord knows what the show has planned for him in the coming weeks, but given his history, it can’t be anything good.
Honestly, I figured Daenerys’s initial invasion force was doomed the second it launched its mission. For one, never throw in with the Dornish: They’re Westeros’s equivalent of the L.A. Clippers, a decent bet on paper that seemingly never pans out, always swerving stylishly into some unfortunate twist of fate. Yara, a far more exciting character, has also always felt doomed to play second fiddle, given how wrapped up she is in the internecine politics of those mollusk-pocked Iron Islanders. And Olenna Tyrell, masterful game-player that she is, has quickly been written off by men far stupider than her (namely Jaime and Randyll Tarly) as being too “emotional” in the face of, oh, you know, Cersei blowing up her entire family.
Game of Thrones has always simplified the precarious, shifting alliances of Westeros’s many houses. I’ve always forgiven it, because this is a TV show and there’s only so much backstory it can provide without sounding like someone’s reading a fake encyclopedia. But as the big bad war the show’s been building up to finally explodes onto the screen, I’ll admit I’m a tad disappointed at the intelligence level of the game-playing unfolding so far. Jaime’s continued allegiance to Cersei is baffling enough, but just about forgivable when you consider he’s got nowhere else to turn—it’s hard, even, to imagine Daenerys accepting the murderer of her father, no matter how big a team of rivals she’s trying to assemble.
But why in the name of the prince (or princess) that was promised would Randyll Tarly, Sam’s hardheaded dad and the chief military commander of House Tyrell, suddenly throw his lot in with the woman who murdered his liege lord? Mace Tyrell wasn’t exactly Alexander the Great, but he (and his two heirs) were incinerated in cold blood, and it’s hard to imagine a blinkered rule-follower like Randyll sullying their name just because he’s afraid of a few Dothraki. I appreciated Jaime’s opportunistic playing on the invading foreign horde—it’s just like our Kingslayer, who’s always been underrated as a politician. But I didn’t buy that Tarly would go for it.
The same goes for Jon Snow, who is declared King in the North and instantly decides … to leave the North on a boat with his most trusted adviser. There’s a reason we hard cut from that decision to a statue of Ned, holding his longsword in noble judgment. Jon seems similarly afflicted with the idea that the logically sound decision is always the right one. Dragons, as Davos points out, can breathe fire, so they might be useful against the White Walkers.
Fine. But maybe wait a second before approaching Daenerys and asking her to open a second front, in her brand new war, against a race of mythical beings? Jon’s role in Winterfell has to be healing the bitter divides of a just-ended civil war, and, as his lieges point out, the last King in the North who left Winterfell never returned. The only reason I can think for his rashness is that foul mistress, plot. Jon doesn’t make much sense as a King in the North anyway—the title should fall to Sansa, pronouns be damned, just like with the so-called prince who was promised. Jon came back from the dead to defeat the Night’s King, and if he has to make a few stupid decisions to spur that final confrontation along, so be it.
In these final episodes of the show (remember, there’s just 11 left—total!—and five left this season), such silly twists may become a matter of course just to get all the pieces in the right places on the board, plausibility be damned. Just how did Euron find that invading fleet and sail himself straight into it without any detection? Who knows! But that’s another plot point sewn up as we point our giant, mechanized crossbows at the grander confrontations to come.
Sophie Gilbert: A quick note that I’m subbing this week for Lenika, and maybe I spent too much time watching Anthony Scaramucci this weekend but Varys reminded me of nothing so much as the new White House communications director in his season-seven return, seamlessly switching allegiance from Bush to Baratheon without batting an eyelid. Sorry, Spencer, I know you wanted a break from current events but the politicking in this episode did feel nakedly relevant. Cersei warning the lords about foreign savages who will rape their wives and murder their children? Varys warning Daenerys that incompetence shouldn’t be rewarded with blind loyalty? It all cut a little close to home, IMO.
The other thing I noticed in “Stormborn” was the proliferation of women taking charge. You had Sansa, stepping in for Jon while he heads south to (finally) meet with Daenerys and Tyrion. Cersei, preaching hate in a rather drafty throne room. The Dragon Queen, of course, determining whether or not Varys is a simple opportunist or a true threat to her rule. And then Olenna, Ellaria, and Yara pondering the ethics of war and the need for an iron fist. Olenna’s warning that pure politics alone leaves a leader vulnerable felt like the counterargument to Varys’s calls for populism. “They won’t obey you unless they fear you,” she told Daenerys, entreating her to be a dragon, not a sheep. But as a leader, Dany has always understood that simple fear alone won’t cut it. True allegiance needs to be based on respect, too, and that can only be earned, not taken by force.
David, last week you praised the famed Ed Sheeran scene as one of the quieter moments of respite during otherwise ceaseless war and strategery. The (lovely) scene between Grey Worm and Missandei seemed to serve the same purpose this episode, presenting a moment of vulnerability and connection between two people that was genuinely moving. For once, the nudity didn’t feel gratuitous so much as pivotal, and Grey Worm’s description of Missandei as his “weakness” emphasized the episode’s constant tension between humanity and strength. So did the encounter up north with an old friend, as you noted. Nymeria had enough of her former self (good dog!) left to recognize Arya, but not enough to abandon her new pack and accompany Arya north. “That’s not you,” Arya murmured as she left. But Arya isn’t the same person she was either—she’s arguably just as fearsome and potentially predatory a figure as her direwolf has become.
Can we take a moment to appreciate the always-gratifying Hot Pie and his dab hand at devising ingenious baking methods (browning the butter before making the dough, who’d have thought)? Not to mention his deft, succinct delivery of groundbreaking news. (ICYMI: “Jon Snow came down from Castle Black with a wildling army and won the Battle of the Bastards. He’s King of the North now.”) After five full seasons on the run, including her mostly torturous (for her and the audience) residence in Braavos, Arya is finally going home. Jon, of course, won’t be there, although given that we’re already two for two on “this is the moment Jon Snow became President” speeches this season, I’m okay with that. Sansa, who had absolutely nothing to do in this episode beyond look disapproving, deserves an emotional reunion with her sister, and Arya will likely have even less tolerance for Littlefinger’s creeping than Jon does.
Which leaves us with Euron. The scorn on Yara’s face as Theon jumped ship (literally) was a sight to behold, but who among us can’t sympathize with Theon? Having been tortured so hideously in the past, both physically and emotionally, it’s not hard to understand why he ditched his sister. But like you both, David and Spencer, I’m less convinced by Euron’s sudden attack-out-of-nowhere. Pilou Asbaek has the maniacal glint in his eye (not to mention the discount Russell Brand wardrobe) to cast himself as a Ramsay-like villain for season seven, but whither his endgame? Cersei isn’t nearly foolish enough to betroth herself to someone so gleefully psychopathic, not to mention someone responsible for torching her father’s entire fleet back in the day. Best case scenario: he ends up subject to one of Sam’s medical experiments. Sure, it *looks* like Sam’s assembling the apparatus to make tableside guacamole, but he could potentially save Jorah’s life, so let’s not judge too hastily.
A decade ago, working my first journalism job while also pretending I surfed for a living, I rented a cheap loft in a three-story Victorian across the street from Ocean Beach in San Francisco. The home is still there as it was. Seahorses are still engraved in the blue window shutters, and the same landlord, Carol Schuldt, can still be found feeding her chickens in the backyard. If she’s not out surfing.
Schuldt—who I also write about in my new memoir, All Our Waves Are Water—is something of San Francisco's patron surf saint, her home a pelagic shrine where local surfers have long left firewood offerings. At 83, after a lifetime of wave riding, helping beach bums find cheap rent, and sometimes helping them get off drugs, too, Schuldt still rides her rusted beach cruiser to the dunes and bodysurfs these frigid waves without a wetsuit. “It’s where I can still connect to the Universal Mind,” she told me while we hiked the ice-planted dunes a few years ago, “to God, Jaimal—you know.”
Unusual Hawaii Petroglyphs Seem to Depict Ancient Surfers
Schuldt is one-of-a-kind. But surf culture is full of people who have made their daily plunge a spiritual practice. Though Calvinist missionaries outlawed surfing when they first came to Hawai’i in the 1820s—they viewed it as frivolous and wanton—the last 50 years have seen single-fin riding rabbis, short boarding priests, and bodysurfing Buddhist monks. Surf-related yoga and meditation retreats are common, too, led by the likes of the Pipeline master Gerry Lopez. Bethany Hamilton, the professional who lost an arm to a tiger shark when she was 13, looks to her faith in God to compete on the same level as pros with two arms (which she does mind-bendingly well). The big-wave champ Greg Long sits in lotus to prepare for confronting apartment building-sized walls of ocean.
For Schuldt, and many others like her, surfing doesn’t need a specific religious structure to give it power. Nature is God, she says, the sea holy water, and surfing a meditation—a comparison that would have likely resonated with the poet Philip Larkin, who wrote, “If I were called in / To construct a religion / I should make use of water.”  While pop culture and the subculture of surfing have both contributed to the mystical reputation of wave-riding, psychology and neuroscience may play an even bigger role, with researchers finding that water is a key ingredient—if not the key ingredient—in experiences people often call holy.
* * *
One can make a good argument that surfers, or at least water lovers, have access to divine real estate. After all, Genesis describes how, “In the beginning … the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters”—not a volcano, not a canyon, not a tree. Muslims perform wudu, ritual ablutions, before praying. Buddhists offer bowls of water as a symbol of clear enlightenment. Baptism is a major component of many religions; converting to Judaism requires full immersion in a mikvah, a bath that must be connected to natural water. Surfing—immersion into the liveliest of waters—has spiritual roots that started well before hippie surfers were passing the peace pipe. Hawaiian chiefs demonstrated their clout by braving big waves. When the surf raged too big for humans, it was called ‘Awili, meaning the gods were surfing.
But whether walking on it, surfing it, or bathing with it, water has been at the center of transformative rituals throughout history.  “Across all spiritual traditions, cultures, and times, you find the use of water to achieve states of awe, grace, and love,” said Wallace J. Nichols, a biologist and the author of the New York Times bestseller Blue Mind, which explores how humans can benefit from being close to water. “We scientists avoid those words like the plague. But if you’re on the water a lot, those end up being the words you need to describe your experiences.”
Scientists are still learning why people say they feel increased amounts of unity, reverence, and happiness in the water, Nichols told me. But if you look at the scientific recipe for flow states—the psychological term for when people are fully and pleasantly absorbed in what they’re doing—being in water checks a lot of the boxes. First, you’re removing a lot of distractions: buzzing cell phones, traffic, written language, and even the need for language, period. Second, you get many of the perks of solitude without the side effects of pain and loneliness.
Then, there’s what psychologists call the “soft focus” that water provides—meaning that watching water is stimulating, even entertaining, to the brain, but in a relaxing, rejuvenating way. Look at the brain of a surfer or swimmer in an fMRI, Nichols said, and you’ll see a more distributed set of points, a more spherical thinking, than when you’re, say, solving a math problem, which takes more prefrontal cortex power. What’s more, surfing—as a form of exercise that involves risk-taking and play—triggers the release of feel-good hormones that help make it so enjoyable.
Surfer Magazine has some anecdotal data to back up Nichols’s points. In 2010, the outlet’s editor at the time, Sam George, wrote:
If some malevolent being came into the world that forced us to close down the doors here at the Palace of Stoke, we could continue to fill editorial pages for two years solely with letters written by surfers to tell us of their spiritual quests in the waves. It’s a phenomenon, really. And it’s one, I believe, that is unique to surfing.
Still, some of the most dedicated surfers balk at the salted spiritual musings.  “You can get the same feeling playing golf,” Justin Housman, a current editor at Surfer Magazine, told me recently. “Surfers need to stop acting like we have some special access to the Tao or whatever just because we ride waves. It’s addictive because it’s fun, because you’re getting dopamine and adrenaline and serotonin. But that’s it. If you think only surfing can get you that feeling, you’ve got to get out more.”
Housman said he sees no problem with surfers taking a metaphysical or religious approach to what they love if they happen to have that orientation to life in general. But he also believes that spirituality gets unfairly foisted onto surfing to the detriment of enjoying surfing for what it is—fun. “You don’t need to add any deeper meaning to make surfing great,” Housman said. “It’s already good enough to take over your entire life.” The reason for the mystical rhetoric, Housman told me, is that surf culture and brands—the latter dependent on surfing remaining cool for its existence—have always pegged themselves to films and TV shows that reinforce that stereotype.
* * *
In the ’60s and ’70s, surf media tended to depict surfers as symbols of a life outside the rat race (like with the classic 1966 documentary The Endless Summer) or figures communing with the gravity of the moon (the 1971 film Morning of the Earth)—all reflections of the hippie and back-to-the-land ethos. Surfers in that era experimented with psychedelics as much as any subculture group, and Timothy Leary even spoke of the tube as the ultimate metaphor for “the highly conscious life.” In the ’80s, ’90s, and early 2000s, surf flicks pivoted toward competitive and human-versus-nature themes, perhaps a reflection of Cold War posturing. But even in films about professional contests (North Shore) or adrenaline junkies conquering death-defying waves (Riding Giants, In God’s Hands, Point Break), there is always a soul-searching bent. Recall that Patrick Swayze’s character in Point Break, for example, is named Bodhi, short for bodhisattva, a being who embodies the Buddhist ideal of compassion for all sentient beings.
In the internet age, mass media about surfing touches on a bit of everything, though contests and Red Bull stunts play a huge role. Now there are more contemplative films about female empowerment, including the 2011 Bethany Hamilton biopic Soul Surfer and the documentary about women surfers It Ain’t Pretty. Other movies criticize consumer culture, like 2010’s Stoked and Broke and 180° South (the latter features Yvon Chouinard, the founder of Patagonia, reflecting on his Zen practice and its overlap with surfing). But no matter the era, Housman said there have been far too many surf books and films with the words “soul” or “Tao” in them, a phenomenon he attributes to surfing gaining its popularity during the Beatnik and hippie eras. Now the baby-boomer surfers’ kids are grown up, addicted to surfing, and basically continuing the trip.
Housman isn’t a surf jock arguing for more wave pools and more Olympics (this coming summer Olympics will be the first for surfers). “I’d push back on surfing being called a sport alone,” he said, leaving the activity’s definition open-ended. His point, however, which many surfers would echo, is to let surfing be surfing.
Identifying too closely with surfing—whether spiritually, athletically, or territorially—can also add to what many see as the sport’s dark underbelly. Surfers are famous for becoming like angry zealots when access to their god—the waves— gets obstructed by crowds, fueling gang-like turf wars in hotspots like Palos Verdes. Steven Kotler’s book West of Jesus captured this tension well: “The irony of it was that most of the people considered surfing a religious experience and that their religious experience was being ruined by all the others surfing for the same reason.”
So why does surfing appear to be so much more freighted with spiritual meaning than other water sports? One key distinction is the structure and pace of the activity. Yes, there are those brief adrenaline pumping moments of actually riding a wave, but in between sets are long lulls when the surfer is just waiting, bobbing, staring at a horizon—time in which there’s nothing to do but breathe and consider saltwater’s flirtatious dance with the sunlight and sky. So whether you’re spiritual or not, there’s still a need for a contemplative solitude in relative stillness. There’s also the constant paradox of having to exert great effort to paddle, while simultaneously surrendering to the power of a wave you’re riding (or falling into)—a Zen metaphor if ever there was one.
All this may feed into why, when you look at the science of peak experiences, water and music are basically tied for first place, Nichols told me. “The ‘oneness thing’ people get is, in a sense, a brain-chemistry response of letting go of that ‘need to know.’ And interestingly, that’s also where the poetry and music is.” Of course, it would be reductive to say neuroscience explains away rapturous moments in the waves—moments that perhaps become spiritual when there is a spiritual language to describe them. And as Housman suggested, surfing is not unique in its ability to give people more happiness, well-being, and awe. But Nichols’s point—and also Carol Schuldt’s—seems to be that water is the best at it. “We try to re-create the water with stained glass, grand architecture,” Nichols said, “but it really doesn’t get close to the real thing.”
Schuldt, for her part, agrees. After doing her own readings on biology and astrophysics, she thinks science has only scratched the surface in revealing why the water is so healing for people. Part of of her reasoning is personal: Her son, Peter, was hit by a car when he was just 3 years old. The doctors warned he’d be completely dependent on others for life, if he made it at all. Unable to accept that prognosis, Schuldt took Peter off life support and rolled his frail body in the icy surf. Today, Peter has a crooked gait and slurred speech, but lives a full life, competing in swimming and running—a fact his mother attributes to his daily saltwater therapy.
But if you really want to understand Schuldt’s religion, follow her on her afternoon ritual sometime, up the steep hill she rides on that old cruiser. Hike another mile with her over the golden dunes, gather firewood, build a bonfire, dive into the cold waters for a bodysurf—and, perhaps, wait for a revelation.
“People ask, ‘How do you do this, at your age,’” she said with a laugh. “I tell them to jump in the ocean.”
I once confessed to an audience gathered for a pre-show talk about Pride and Prejudice that I felt a bit salty to see so many of them in attendance. A few months earlier, I explained, I’d given an absolutely fascinating lecture on Mary Shelley to maybe five people, one of whom was my Aunt Carmen. The crowd for Jane Austen—and it was a crowd—laughed. A mix of students, folks from the surrounding towns, and my colleagues were there to see a stage adaptation of what is arguably the author’s most popular novel. It was my job to introduce the performance, and I was terrified. It’s no small thing to talk about Austen in public. There’s always a cluster of people who have been reading her since before they could walk, and they not only have strong opinions but also know her and her writing like my mother knew the Bible.
Really the only reason I was giving that talk is because almost 15 years ago, when I was a new assistant professor of English, my students clamored for Austen and I was the one people thought should teach her. It wasn’t an unreasonable expectation: I specialize in the history of the novel and am particularly focused on late 18th- and early 19th-century literature. I’d written about Austen in my dissertation. I was steeped in the critical conversations and interpretations her work has inspired over the centuries, from Walter Scott through the Victorians through waves of feminist literary criticism through Edward Said’s reading of Mansfield Park. But the passion that people expect me to have about her and her novels isn’t there. What’s more, I’ve felt some perverse need to perform my ambivalence over the years.
It hasn’t always gone well. Once, in a guest lecture in a colleague’s class, I announced with a smirk and a dramatic eye roll that I don’t actually like Austen. Afterward, a stricken-looking student came up to me to ask if it was true. “But I love your Austen class!” she told me. I was so shocked by her distress that I said I hadn’t really meant it. Another time, I said that it wasn’t Austen who bothered me so much as her fans, kind of like how I’m terribly fond of the Lord but don’t enjoy His more dogmatic and judgmental followers. I don’t know that either of these statements I made to distance myself from Austen were entirely sincere; much like the author herself, I’m full of contradictions.
The truth is, I’ve always loved Austen’s prose and went through a phase in college where I read Pride and Prejudice every Christmas. But my feelings toward her evolved over the years, starting in grad school, when a combination of literary theory and learning that Mary Shelley had written these rather spectacular other novels convinced me that I was wasting my time with Jane. Austen was for girls, and I was a woman. I had my Butler (Judith not Marilyn), my Donna Haraway and her “Cyborg Manifesto,” and my Foucault (is the ballroom a panopticon?) to read, thank you very much. Shelley led me to Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics and Descartes, and to a novel set in 14th-century Italy with a character who believes her mother was God’s sister. Nothing in Austen could compete with that.
That’s the case I’d tried to make as a doctoral candidate when I told my dissertation committee that I was over Austen and wouldn’t be writing about her. They insisted there was simply no way to write a dissertation on the novel without talking about Jane so I gave in. Only I didn’t discuss Pride and Prejudice or Mansfield Park or Emma, but Sense and Sensibility—and I mostly ignored the women. By then, I had come to resent the expectation of excitement over the minutiae of Austen’s life, as well as the sentimentalized version of 19th-century England that people tend to see in her.
I’ve long been skeptical about the politics that shape which texts are deemed canonical—works like Emma—and which are pushed to the margins. I remember in college reading the critic F.R Leavis’s announcement in The Great Tradition that “the great English novelists are Jane Austen, George Eliot, Henry James, and Joseph Conrad” and wanting to know what, exactly, made them so great. Even back then, when I had more youthful angst than critical acumen, my gut told me the 19th-century authors that scholars canonize are those like Austen, whose fiction played with, but ultimately conformed to, the social conventions of their time.
Still I was surprised by what I found, what I continue to find, in literature from that period, particularly when it comes to the inclusion of people of color. I was late in my doctoral studies before I even stumbled upon my first black character in 19th-century British literature. And lest anyone think I’m casting 21st-century concerns back onto Jane and her peers, consider reading the anonymously written novel The Woman of Colour: A Tale, published in 1808. Unlike Austen, many of her contemporaries wrote stories about interracial marriage and biracial women (that were not tucked away in Charlotte Brontë’s attic). They also used their fiction and poems to contribute to the debates about abolition, in concert with women who circulated petitions, raised funds for the cause, and boycotted sugar from the West Indies.
As my research interests have changed, and as I’ve realized the scope of 19th-century texts that took up the question of transatlantic slavery and the movements to abolish it, I haven’t read Austen the same way. I can appreciate her skill but feel an urgent need to teach and write about these other stories. With Austen as, often, the primary literary lens into her time period, it can be all too easy to forget how deeply invested English culture was not only in curtailing women’s choices, but also in enslaving millions of people. No matter how sparkling the wit of Austen and her characters, no matter the pleasure of the familiar texts, I want to spend my time and energy elsewhere, in another historical Britain, with authors like Maria Edgeworth, Hannah More, and Amelia Opie who grappled directly with the more pressing social issues of their time—not because I agree with or love the stories they tell, but because those stories show the fuller range of British culture in the 1800s.
Despite all this, my students and I have the most rewarding classes with Austen’s novels. I know that’s a politic thing to say, especially as we mark the bicentennial of her death, but it’s also true. I love teaching Romantic-era poetry (Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Shelley, Byron, and Keats). And I’ve been thrilled to see my former students take what they’ve learned in my “The Novel to 1900” class on to graduate school and their own work as teachers.
But the first lecture of mine that a class applauded for was about Austen (Mansfield Park). One of my favorite speeches to teach is Willoughby explaining to Elinor Dashwood in Sense and Sensibility that he “had always been expensive.” Austen lets me talk about the fragility of 19th-century masculinity that she makes sympathetic in a world of Knightleys and Darcys. My students defend Marianne Dashwood when I say I want to shake some sense into her and are exasperated when I get some minor detail wrong (proving to me how carefully they’ve read). Some of the best essays my students write are about Austen’s novels.
I’ve tempered how I show off my ambivalence for the author, but my students know it’s there, which accomplishes two things at once: Austen is such a massive figure in literature that I think my coolness toward her novels invites my students to read her thoughtfully without worrying that they have to come up with the “right” interpretation. And my indifference to an author who is so widely admired leads to classes where we can read and wrestle with Austen’s work in myriad, fascinating ways, without necessarily agreeing with one another.
I could stop here and let you think I only care about Austen in class, but that wouldn’t be totally honest. For all my frustration with the way people often romanticize the world she writes about, Austen has been with me since I was a teenager. The first night in my very first apartment, I chose to read Northanger Abbey. The one movie script I’ve written is based on Emma (my co-author and I made errybody black). My most weathered, heavily annotated edition of a novel is Sense and Sensibility. On one of my visits to England, I walked the streets of Bath, and I couldn’t help but fall under her thrall. There’s still room in my research for Mansfield Park, a novel that I think feels so somber because Austen briefly acknowledges her country’s abolition debates. I take Austen quizzes (I am not Emma, but Anne Elliot) and enjoy every piece of Austen merchandise my students, friends, and family buy me (figurines, puzzles, coffee mugs, memorabilia books, a coloring book, and, most recently, a cozy).
I’m currently writing a long essay about Mary Shelley, Lord Byron, and Felicia Hemans, and am working on a book about Romanticism and abolition, so my bookshelves don’t have much space for Austen. But I’m also writing this essay in my home office where, on a filing cabinet that doubles as an end table, there sits a candle. I light that candle on dreary days, and it has a simple inscription on it: “There is nothing like staying at home for real comfort”—Jane Austen. I suspect that, regardless of where my work takes me, no matter how much more intriguing I find her contemporaries, Austen will always be a kind of home for me, whether I’m in the classroom or in the archives.
Inside the Pied Piper of R&B’s ‘Cult’
Jim DeRogatis | BuzzFeed
“The music industry has a history of stars using their fame to gain the trust of young women—and their parents—who expect professional relationships but end up in sexual ones. But numerous sources, including women who left his inner circle, made on-the-record allegations suggesting ongoing mental and physical abuse of several women in [R.] Kelly’s entourage far beyond that of the groupie culture.”
John Boyega on Star Wars, Detroit, and Staying Sane With the Help of Robert Downey Jr.
Anna Peele | GQ
“The face we were seeing held warm deep-set eyes darting around the desert while sweat dripped down his forehead. Lips parted to reveal clenched teeth. It was all very human—and he seemed convincingly terrified. Boyega's talent was so obvious that you see him on the screen and think, Yeah, that guy belongs here.”
Creek Theses
Justin Taylor | The Paris Review
“Here’s a thesis: All of Dawson’s Creek makes infinitely more sense, and is significantly more enjoyable, if you stop thinking about it as a show ‘about’ Dawson Leery and start thinking about it as a show about Pacey and Joey, and the grinding misery of growing up working-class in a snow-globe town where all your friends are well-to-do.”
Watching Fox & Friends, Trump Sees a Two-Way Mirror
James Poniewozik | The New York Times
“President Trump is the show’s subject, its programmer, its publicist, and its virtual fourth host. The stars offer him flattery, encouragement and advice. When he tweets, his words and image appear on a giant video wall. It’s the illusion of children’s TV—that your favorite show is as aware of you as you are of it—except that for Mr. Trump, it’s real.”
MTV News and Stand-Up Comedy: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
How Elisabeth Moss Became an Accidental Activist When Handmaid’s Tale Took on Trump
Lacey Rose | The Hollywood Reporter
“What makes this round of recognition different is not simply that her odds of taking home a statuette are greater than they've ever been but also that the universally lauded Hulu series has redefined Moss's career—as an actress, a producer and, at first reluctantly, an activist for women's rights. ‘What I've learned is, now is not really a time to stand in the middle,’ she says. ‘You've got to pick a side.’”
A Cloudy Future: Why It Matters If Soundcloud Lives or Dies
Michaelangelo Matos | The Village Voice
“SoundCloud, then, was by DJs for DJs. It just so happened that its orange casing, its waveform, its ability to target a comment to any point on an upload’s unfolding time grid, and its possessing the easiest interface imaginable happened to apply to discrete songs as well as DJ sets.”
O.J. Simpson’s Pop-Culture Resurgence Has Reframed His Celebrity—and the Era of His Downfall
Alissa Wilkinson | Vox
“It’s always hard to really make out what’s happening in the moment. More than 20 years after Simpson’s acquittal, though, things became more clear. In many ways, the 1990s sketched out the blueprint for America circa 2016—not just the Clinton shenanigans and the Simpson trial and the Rodney King riots, but all kinds of events, fears, rhetoric, and personalities.”
The Uses of Beauty: On Daughters of the Dust and Diasporic Inheritance
Carina del Valle Schorske | Los Angeles Review of Books
“Daughters of the Dust involves its own characters in the argument over how best to carry this weight—the unbearable weight of diasporic inheritance. What does it mean to hold steady in minority experience while also charting new waters? To take the world’s horizon as the ultimate horizon of communication?”
Gillian Robespierre’s new film Landline is a harbinger of an inevitable trend, one as mundane for some viewers as it might be terrifying for others. Landline has all the trappings of a period piece—attention is paid to specific costuming, none of the characters have cellphones, and everyone’s sexual politics feel a little out of date. But Landline is not set in the swinging ’60s, not even in the shoulder-padded ’80s—it’s a melancholy comedy set in 1995, with some of the visual hallmarks and specific Manhattan geography of a Nora Ephron film. That’s right: The ’90s are ancient history now.
But while Robespierre’s film, her follow-up to the wonderfully sharp 2014 abortion comedy Obvious Child, feels reminiscent of many a classic ’90s Manhattan love story, it doesn’t echo the clean rom-com storytelling of the genre. She digs into her ensemble’s flaws far more eagerly than their strengths, and endeavors to create a more well-rounded portrait of love, relationships, and infidelity in which there are no clear winners or losers. Landline, as such, feels like a bit of a chore to watch at times—don’t expect an emotional reunion on top of the Empire State Building—but that’s the idea. The film doesn’t want to wrap things up cleanly, and it takes the ’90s as the epicenter of a shift in family values, one where the idea of coupling up is more frightening than it is reassuring.
'Obvious Child' Director Gillian Robespierre on Choosing the Song 'The Obvious Child'
Robespierre’s trump card is Jenny Slate—the comedian and actress who made Obvious Child such a joy to watch, and who should be acknowledged as a full-blown star based on her performance here as Dana Jacobs, the eldest child of the Jacobs clan. Her mother, the somewhat severe Pat (Edie Falco), is a hyper-critical bad cop, with her listless-seeming husband Alan (John Turturro) largely parenting from the sidelines. Dana’s younger sister Ali (Abby Quinn) is a high schooler flirting with typical forms of rebellion—drug use, staying out late, and pre-marital sex—while Dana is fretting over her relationship to her fiancé Ben (Jay Duplass), which is stuck in a serious rut as they plan for their wedding.
Plenty of rather stereotypical interpersonal drama over various couplings and uncouplings plays out over the next 90 minutes. Dana flirts with a former flame, the jocky Nate (Finn Wittrock), while Ali goes into an emotional tailspin as she guesses that her dopey dad might be having an affair. There’s lots of yelling, an interlude at the family’s country home, and some difficult conversations, all of it mixed in with the acidic humor that pervaded Obvious Child a little more thoroughly.
But Slate helps keep any scene she’s in afloat, never letting Dana seem like a ’90s career-girl cliché, nor leaning on her own more uninhibited personality. Obvious Child saw Slate playing a stand-up comedian, so I wondered if her convincing work there was helped along by the character’s more autobiographical nature. But in Landline, she’s just as fully realized: Though she retains Slate’s incredible honking laugh, she otherwise lacks her self-possessed spirit. Her flirtation with Nate as her wedding approaches might seem like a tired plot contrivance if it weren’t for Slate’s quiet grasp of Dana’s anxieties about commitment.
The rest of the cast, despite their efforts, don’t fare quite as well as Slate. Ali’s rebellion feels non-threatening, while Pat and Alan, struggling with their frayed connection, operate mostly as satellites in Dana’s larger crisis of matrimony. Though the ’90s setting is pivotal to the themes Robespierre (who co-wrote with Elisabeth Holm) is trying to explore—namely, the subdued and oft-necessary disintegration of some of these traditional family values—in practice, the throwback clothes and soundtrack often feel gimmicky, less a part of the film’s environment and more just tacky window dressing.
Pat’s characterization was the toughest of all to swallow. While Robespierre is obviously aiming to depict this family’s flaws and foibles, warts and all, she’s a little too one-dimensionally crotchety to ever sympathize with. Falco and Turturro are talented enough to suggest the faintest hint of some lost chemistry between them, but there’s not much of it in the writing. The only relationship in Landline that really feels salvageable is Dana’s, with Ben—Duplass is well-cast as the sweet, ineffectual guy, the type who usually gets left behind in the Nora Ephron movie.
But Robespierre doesn’t do quite enough to earn their reconciliation either, as the film swerves from its dramatic second act to a more wistful conclusion. In the end, Landline succumbs to a trope it spends much of its running time eagerly trying to avoid—it ties things up with a bow, and promises a bright future for everybody. If I wanted to remember some idealized version of the ’90s, there are plenty of old movies I can watch. Landline doesn’t seem to want to join their ranks, but its ending is too tidy, too pat, to avoid that fate.
Jane lies in Winchester
Blessed be her shade!
Praise the Lord for making her,
And her for all she made.
And, while the stones of Winchester—
Or Milsom Street—remain,
Glory, Love, and Honour
Unto England’s Jane!
— Rudyard Kipling
On a spring afternoon 25 years ago, my mother took my baby sister and me to the grave of Jane Austen at Winchester Cathedral. It would have been 1992, and quite late in the spring, as photos of that day have me in short sleeves and my sister wearing a summery little dress in her stroller. She was 2, I was 6, and Austen had been dead for 175 years.
The grave left little impression on me at the time—I didn’t know much about Austen, except that she was my mother’s favorite writer and that she had died not far from where we stood and that her bones were now beneath us. In the days when England’s church was allied with Rome, Winchester had been consecrated to Saint Swithin, and—as Mom explained—it was three days after the Feast of Saint Swithin in 1817 that Austen breathed her last in that city, under the care of better doctors than could have been found closer to the Chawton cottage where she spent the last eight years of her life. The tombstone says a lot of nice things about her character but doesn’t mention once that she was a writer. My mother, an English professor whose expertise is the British novel in the 18th and 19th centuries, told me that this was an odd omission, and I wondered whether Austen’s ghost lurked, displeased, beneath the stones of the cathedral.
What my mother did not tell me, and what she could not have known, was that, two decades later, I would find myself putting on Regency costumes and attending balls and banquets across North America, nor that—in a curious inversion of roles—I would eventually persuade her to dispense with academic self-seriousness and actually start wearing the costumes herself. All of this happened after I had joined the ranks of those enthusiastic literary necromancers who regularly summon Austen’s ghost.
These are the fans and disciples of Austen, known collectively as the Janeites, a term coined in the 1890s by the critic George Saintsbury. In the 21st century, they pop about the globe, now visiting Austen’s grave at Winchester, now visiting her haunts in Bath, now attending the annual general meeting of the Jane Austen Society of North America (JASNA), where hundreds of Janeites materialize each year in Minneapolis or Montréal or Washington, D.C., to exhibit their finest examples of Regency formalwear, to hear the brightest Austen scholars talk about their ideas of the author—was Austen a secret radical? was she a reactionary? was she queer?—and to dispute those ideas with the proprietary vim of a family member.
Shared fandom is an endorsement of one’s own eccentric enthusiasms, a world of like minds, a collective agreement to treat as wisdom what the rest of the world long ago dismissed as folly. As such, fandom of any sort is a salve for loneliness, but Austen fandom doubly so, as her books, and the communities that they evoke, feel so very snug, so neatly governed by the basic rule that in properly reading one another, we get closer to our best selves.
* * *
I fell into the world of Janeites very nearly on accident during my graduate studies in English, where Austen was an important but hardly central figure in my research (I was mainly studying the ways that 18th-century British satirists shaped their voices using tools from the poets of ancient Rome). But for the 200th anniversary of the publication of Pride & Prejudice in 2013, my grad-school advisor decided to establish the first annual Jane Austen summer camp at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and I accepted a very modest stipend to help with duties that I was assured would be largely clerical. But then they needed someone to play Mr. Darcy, and I was one of the only people in the zip code who identified as male and also studied Austen, so the call came down, and I agreed to impersonate the dour but redeemable patrician. And thus began an unexpected, yearlong tour through this odd, stylish, recondite world.
Most people harbor a dim or at least narrow view of the Janeites, and when friends heard I had fallen in with this crowd of petticoat-wearers and novel-readers, they were quick to offer words of caution: Beware the insufferable spinsters, they whispered; the Janeites will all be strange social outcasts, the sort of people who trust no one but their cats. My well-wishers made these ludicrous suggestions with a hint of worry, as though they thought I was at risk of joining a modish cult. Only this last part was true.
The truth is that most Janeites do not knit, nor are they any more likely to keep cats than are readers of Trollope or Milton, and you’d be right to be disappointed at these tired and misogynist stereotypes. As for the charge of spinsterhood: Simply survey the room at any Janeite ball and you’ll note that the unmarried women are enjoying themselves at least as much as the married ones, so one can hardly do other than raise a glass to singledom. The families, too, are inevitably having loads of fun, and some of the Janeites whom I love most are the little kin-connected units who treat Austen as part of a private inheritance shared between parents and children. But then, perhaps I’m just biased in favor of those families, like my own, for whom Austen is a genealogical fixture.
Loving Jane Austen can sometimes look to outsiders like a Pinterest aesthetic, and the Janeite soon becomes accustomed to dubious glances from the uninitiated. American fans of Jane Austen love her unconditionally; the English love Austen but are often embarrassed about it. E.M. Forster spent decades in just such a state. Reviewing R.W. Chapman’s edition of Austen’s oeuvre for the New Republic in 1924, Forster’s lede is pure self-deprecation: “I am a Jane Austenite, and, therefore, slightly imbecile about Jane Austen.” In April of 1944, during a BBC radio essay, Forster once more made an apologetic bleat, expressing his diffident but ardent love: “I am so fond of her. She’s English, I’m English, and my fondness for her may be rather a family affair. … Anyhow, please don’t dismiss her as a spinster in a backwater. She’s much more than that.”
That’s hardly a spirited defense of the artist whom Rudyard Kipling had dubbed “England’s Jane”—but I have learned from experience that apologizing for one’s Austen love is a loser’s game. I’m fond of Forster’s flaccid little apologia because my own investment in Austen is so clearly a family affair, and also because it’s clear that Forster doesn’t care very much about explaining himself. Why does he love Jane Austen? Perhaps because she’s the local talent. Perhaps because she reinvented the novel—or perhaps because the novels animate a vision of English society that, by Forster’s age, offered pre-industrial nostalgia with the trappings of realism. Forster doesn’t really elaborate. He wishes only to affirm his love, and to recommend it—to enlarge the “family” of Janeites, and to suggest her as a comfort during a wartime broadcast.
This worldwide “family” of Janeites perseveres, and their studiousness is hardly less ardent than their fandom. Indeed, the two are often inextricable; the true Janeites whom I met at conferences and cotillions are diligently invested in the novels and in various elements of Austen’s life and afterlives. Besides amateur scholars of English agrarian history, there are loads of high-school teachers and haberdashers and theater directors, plus historical novelists who spend years researching the successive fashions of the Regency, lest a single bodkin appear in the wrong decade as they’re writing their next books. Some of the clothing mavens seem to be locked in an arms race with each other: Baronda Bradley, a Janeite in Texas who has been attending JASNA conventions for 20 years, wears multiple period dresses on each day of the conference. At the 2005 convention, in Milwaukee, she was hailed as “Baronda of the 2,000 dresses,” and it’s a testament to her that I still can’t tell whether the epithet is even an exaggeration.
* * *
Unlike Bradley, my mother says that she had never worn the garb until she saw a mortifying photo of me, as Darcy, wearing white tights, cream-colored breeches, and a blue topcoat. This image was suitably disarming, and Mom was struck, too, by a new sense that one could enjoy the more frivolous bits (funny dresses!) without losing credibility; indeed, as she learned, wearing a Regency getup will earn any scholar deep street cred among the Janeites. We’ve attended two big Austen conferences together—Mom wears the gown with real panache—and after I stopped attending, she began carrying the torch for both of us. (My mother has become a regular eminence at the now-annual UNC summer camp, and every year I look forward to her live updates on the proceedings, which she delivers in long periodic sentences via text message.)
The uninitiated still wonder: Why on earth would otherwise conventional adults spend hard-earned money jetting across the United States and Canada to talk about six novels written by an unmarried Hampshire lady whose books have, in one sense, become synonymous with a sort of bourgeois predictability? What compels shy bookish types to give themselves over to elaborate cosplay? Certainly it’s true that when you’re dancing “Mr. Beveridge’s Maggot” or “The Duke of Kent’s Waltz”—two traditional English country dances of the early 19th century—it is natural to ask: “How the hell did I get here?”
But the question dissipates amid a thousand more immediate concerns: The clasp on your waistcoat is coming undone, or you’re about to tread on your partner’s toes, or you can’t tell whether that cute Janeite in the corner is admiring or laughing at you. Then you finally talk to her, you discover that she’s literally quoting the novels to you as a form of flirtation, and you start to recognize: Austen brings us Janeites together and then gives us a script for how to get along, how to read the room, how to observe, reflect, and behave in a small community of others whose feelings and fates may well be bound up with our own.
And so, clasped in the public intimacy of a Regency cotillion, you see that Janeism offers its acolytes a peculiar sort of consolation, and a brief cure for social atomization: a flattering, antiquarian remix of our dissipated modern selves. It’s a retreat, too, to a fictional world where politeness was sexy, and where villainy and bad manners were eventually punished. It’s an unlikely and heterodox community, driven into one another’s arms by Austen. In this way, the novelist has her vindication: The Winchester tombstone may not mention the novels, but their charms are sufficiently lasting that they continue to propel us into tights and petticoats during heat waves, 200 years after she died.
Don’t Miss
How ‘I Do’ Became Performance Art—Megan Garber traces how the American wedding theatrical complex was born, with the help of a massive coffee table book, 30 years ago.
Bi-Austen-tennial
Colin Firth’s Shirt: Jane Austen and the Rise of the Female Gaze—Megan Garber shows how the novelist’s writing fits perfectly into the culture of the moment.
‘On the Wrong Side of Five-and-Thirty’: How Jane Austen Grew Up—Matt Thompson looks at how the novelist portrayed age in her books, from writing a draft of Sense and Sensibility as a teen to being the age of the older characters she mocked by the time it was published.
Jane Austen and the Redemption of Gawkiness—Rosa Inocencio Smith explores the writer’s soft spot for awkward talkers and stumbling lovers, which provided relief to her growing up as a shy person.
Making Peace With Jane Austen’s Marriage Plots—Sophie Gilbert dives into how the writer’s work has done more than any other author’s to influence what “happily ever after” means in culture.
Queering the Work of Jane Austen Is Nothing New—Devoney Looser unfurls the history of performers and writers who’ve been subverting the novelist’s reputation as the go-to author for heterosexual love since the Victorian era.
Film
Christopher Nolan’s Dunkirk Is a Masterpiece—Christopher Orr calls the director’s new war film boldly experimental and visually stunning.
A Wrinkle in Time Defies Disney’s Sequel-Filled Future—David Sims points out that Ava DuVernay’s adaptation of the classic book is one of the studio’s only upcoming movies that’s not a follow-up or remake.
How The Fifth Element Subverted Sci-Fi Movies—David Sims explains that Luc Besson’s visually stunning film hinged its story not on action or violence, but on love.
Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets Is a One-of-a-Kind Space Odyssey—David Sims watches the new sci-fi epic, a visual sensation that deserves to be seen on the biggest screen possible.
TV
Game of Thrones Gears Up for the Wars Still to Come—David Sims, Lenika Cruz, and Spencer Kornhaber discuss the first episode of the seventh season.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development—Sophie Gilbert reviews the new Netflix series, a strange dive into what happens when people can’t grow up.
Game of Thrones: About That Cameo—Megan Garber contemplates an interesting appearance in last Sunday’s episode.
Ozark: Netflix’s Grim Foray Into Flyover Country—Sophie Gilbert watches the drama, which follows a Chicago financial adviser forced to move to Missouri to launder money for a cartel.
Music
Remembering Chester Bennington—Spencer Kornhaber pays tribute to the Linkin Park singer, who may have been the purest voice of angst on the radio this millennium.
R. Kelly’s Alleged Sex ‘Cult’ and the Shield of Fame—Spencer Kornhaber analyzes a BuzzFeed report that says the R&B singer has at least six women living under his total control.
How Jon Batiste Made ‘Battle Hymn’ Bittersweet—Spencer Kornhaber talks to the jazz musician about putting the “pain and struggle” of American history into the patriotic classic.
The Classic Queer Paradox of Tyler, the Creator—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the rapper’s new album Flower Boy, on which he suggests he’s not straight and struggles with the stigma he helped to propagate.
Sports
Federer’s Wimbledon Win Was Anything but Nostalgic—Arnav Adhikari examines how the Swiss tennis legend has shown he’s still full of surprises in a throwback 2017 season.
Tyler, the Creator became famous, in part, for being hateful. When his rap collective Odd Future Wolf Gang Kill Them All (“Odd Future” is fine) caught buzz around 2010, it was because of their delirious energy and Eminem-like love of mayhem. But it was their threats against women and “faggots,” delivered in song and on social media, that elevated them from subculture phenomenon to become essay prompt and political flashpoint. The likes of GLAAD and the band Tegan and Sara declared Tyler poisonous and asked the music industry to stop supporting him. Theresa May, back when she was home secretary of the U.K., took the extraordinary step of banning him from her country because his lyrics “encourage violence and intolerance of homosexuality.”
Now Tyler, age 26, has delivered an album with an altogether different kind of shock to its lyrics. “Next line will have 'em like ‘whoa’,” he says with trademark gruffness. “I’ve been kissing white boys since 2004.”
The Album Is Immortal
It’s one of a number of times on Flower Boy (unofficial title: Scum Fuck Flower Boy) in which Tyler seems to reference his own same-sex attraction. The aching journey of “Garden Shed” comes off as a confession from the closet (actually, the “shed”), and for the album’s intro he says he’s been “in the woods with flowers, rainbows, and posies.” Elsewhere, he searches for a lover who looks like Leonardo DiCaprio and brags about driving with a guy who looks like River Phoenix.
If Tyler’s now “out,” it’s a landmark moment: He’d be the highest-profile queer male rapper in a genre that, like all pop genres to varying extents, has long traded in homophobia. The way Tyler’s now presenting himself can also be seen as a sign of the murkiness of celebrity identity, a signal of generationally shifting sexual attitudes, and the contradictions of the closet itself.

Stipulated—maybe Tyler is just trolling. His early albums were wars between different alter-egos: There was a masked maniac who smoked pot and broke stuff; there was a murderous cat; there was a calm therapist coaching Tyler to get a grip. The centerpiece of 2015’s Cherry Bomb was an intoxicating/queasy contribution to the pop tradition of lusting after an underage girl. Perhaps he’s simply now introducing a fictional “Flower Boy” persona who makes out with guys.
But if it’s a con, it’s a committed one. In 2015, he tweeted, “I tried to come out the damn closet like four days ago and no one cared hahahhahaha,” and he rapped, “How can I be homophobic when my boyfriend’s a fag? / And we been hiding in the closet like our passion is fashion, still trying to come out.” He’s referred to himself with gay slurs over the years and has joked—or not joked—about having a thing for freckly white guys. He also put out a controversial t-shirt that re-worked neo-Nazi imagery with the rainbow flag. Then there’s this passage from a 2015 Rolling Stone profile by Ernest Baker:
For the past two days I’ve wondered, is Tyler actually gay? I cannot emphasize how much gay humor plays a role in the atmosphere around him. It’s like a continuous loop of the “You know how I know you’re gay?” scene in The 40-Year-Old Virgin. Never more than a few minutes pass without him saying he’s going to suck someone’s dick or him accusing someone of wanting to suck dick. At one point on the bus, he recalls sending nude photos to a group chat with his friends and no one responded. “My friends are so used to me being gay,” Tyler says, “they don't even care.”
I finally ask, Why all the gay humor? “Because I’m gay as fuck,” he says, without a flinch. Seriously, are you gay? Are these repressed feelings? “No, but I am in love with ’96 Leonardo DiCaprio,” he says. “I one hundred percent would go gay for ’96 Leo. Oh, and Cole Sprouse.”
In all of this Tyler may be staging a crasser version of the public process Frank Ocean went through in declaring his non-straightness. Ocean’s news came from an open letter in which he talked about a relationship with a man; he still hasn’t publicly identified with a label, whether “bisexual” or “gay” or “queer,” and his songs spin stories about affairs with both genders. Tyler has cheekily accepted and rejected the term “gay” over the years, and he doesn’t use it on Flower Boy, an album preoccupied with matters of the heart. Over a musical palette generally gentler than that which he was originally known for—more spacey synth jazz than noise—he confesses to deep loneliness and nostalgia for past loves. It’s the individual relationships, not his overall identity grouping, that’s the focus here.
“The homie not gay, he just likes dudes,” Odd Future associate Mike G tweeted after Flower Boy’s lyrics began to leak online. This sort of post-labelism is certainly in vogue, and Tyler, as much as a millennial icon as any musician, may be embracing it. Notably he justified his previous use of slurs with a philosophically adjacent thought: Words are pliable, their meaning up to the user. In 2013, he said of “faggot” on The Arsenio Hall Show, “That’s just a word, you can take the power out of that word. The way that I see things, it’s you chose to be offended if you care more about stuff like that.”
Tyler’s career now and before, though, actually shows the extent to which such words do have fixed meanings—and gay slurs reinforce a stigma that he may well have struggled with. “My step-father called me a fag, I’ll show him a fag / I’ll light a fire up in his ass,” he rapped on 2013’s “Pigs,” a song inspired by the mindset of the Columbine shooters. Tyler knows that words can wound. “I’m not homophobic. I just think ‘faggot’ hits and hurts people,” he told NME, though he then added: “‘Gay’ just means you’re stupid.”
On some level he had to understand that conflating a sexual identity with being stupid is an insult to that identity, and the fact that he could make that conflation was because of longstanding stigmas. After all, why does the closet exist in the first place? Why’d he post this drawing, a pretty clear depiction of anxiety over coming out? Why is the Flower Boy track “Garden Shed” so shot through with turmoil—“Them feelings that I was guardin’ heavy on my mind / All my friends lost, they couldn’t read the signs”? Why does he preface his admission about kissing boys with a line anticipating backlash?
Being anything other than straight, Tyler’s latest chapter implies and modern queer history would confirm, is still not a socially neutral status. Tyler knows that people are still told—in ways big and small, intended and not—that same-sex romance is something to be hated. If he’s not propagating the same stigma anymore, the apparent revelations of Flower Boy are a reminder that it’s not only straight people who can be infected by homophobia. One of Tyler’s most famous lyrics, from 2011’s “Yonkers,” now comes off like a classic queer declaration, showing an internal battle between shame and fear and desire: “I’m a fucking walking paradox / no I’m not.”
At the beginning of the first episode of Ozark, Netflix’s bleak drug drama du jour, Marty Byrde (Jason Bateman) is in a kind of existential midlife funk: His wife, Wendy (Laura Linney), is cheating on him; his kids are growing into entitled nightmares; and his job as a financial adviser appears to be lamentably unfulfilling. Then, suddenly, the show flips everything on its head. Marty’s business partner has apparently been stealing millions from a Mexican drug lord and is murdered in front of him. Marty’s only recourse is to plead for his life and propose a new plan—he’ll launder $500 million in drug money by moving to the Lake of the Ozarks, a man-made reservoir in Missouri and a popular holiday destination that he argues will be less conspicuous to the FBI.
Ozark, which contains so many fragments and threads from existing prestige shows that it sometimes feels like a particularly grim televisual quilt, is at least pleasingly tense in its first episode. Smug, larcenous businessmen are shot in the head. Bodies appear out of thin air (literally). Del (Esai Morales), the requisite ruthless cartel member, threatens not only Marty’s life but the lives of his wife and children while dissolving bodies in tubs of acid. It’s fair to say that the pressure on Marty to deliver is substantial. Which is why it’s so perplexing when he waddles morosely through the next six episodes with all the energy of a post-divorce Ross from Friends. A midlife crisis is one thing, but a persistent, dull, woe-is-me malaise when three separate crime families are threatening your loved ones starts to feel like self-indulgence.
Friends From College Is a Tragedy of Arrested Development
Ozark has the potential to be many interesting things, and the fact that it commits to none of them feels like overextension. With America’s rural and coastal divide sharper than ever, a premise that drops a tony Chicago family into flyover country is full of promise, particularly because Bill Dubuque, the show’s creator, worked in the area during college, and still lives in Missouri. Even if you’re as hell-bent on dourness as Ozark is, the environment is rich with narrative potential, as the stories of Daniel Woodrell and the 2010 film Winter’s Bone would attest. And yet Ozark can’t get into it. It wants to unpack this intriguing rural community, but it also wants to be a drama about an unlikely criminal, like Breaking Bad, and a show about a boring marriage revived by a shared mission, like The Americans, and a fable about how everyone’s trying to make a living the best way they know how, just like The Wire.
With all these conflicting goals, Ozark mostly flops weakly from crisis to crisis, like one of the catfish Marty pretends to know how to bait. By the end of the second episode, he and Wendy, their teenage daughter Charlotte (Sofia Hublitz) and their young son Jonah (Skylar Gaertner) are installed in a lakefront house, and Marty has been assigned the test of laundering $8 million to prove he can make it in this new community. His arrogance, of course, is misplaced. The locals have their own ways of doing things, and some even appear to be doing some laundering of their own. There are the requisite culture clashes (a particularly dull plot point revolves around Wendy’s inability to source organic pistachio ice cream) and lessons about condescension. And yet the show itself often views its local characters through a rather snotty lens, from the homophobic brawlers rearing bobcat kittens to the heavily pregnant stripper working a pole.
Bateman, who also directed four of the series’s 10 episodes, is always an arresting on-camera presence, but Marty’s enigmatic qualities start to feel maddeningly inconsistent midway through. In moments of crisis, he has the bravado and the balls to talk himself out of certain death, but the rest of the time he’s strangely inept, trusting the wrong people, saying the wrong things, and getting into ever more trouble. He’s a helmet-wearing bicycle dad in a community full of Ford pickups, but he also proves repeatedly how ruthless he can be. This particular cocktail of comical dorkiness and cold business-mindedness seems like a deliberate attempt to ape Walter White, but Ozark’s commitment to shrouding Marty’s motivations in mystery makes him less persuasive.
Linney, as Wendy, tries to make her shrewish, unfaithful wife character dynamic rather than sympathetic, but she isn’t really given the storylines to pull it off (a flashback episode late in the series gives her more to work with). One distinctive element of Ozark is that its female characters are all steely to the core—Charlotte punches a local only a few episodes in, and a local bar owner (Jordana Spiro) isn’t as easy a mark for Marty as she seems. The most compelling presence is Ruth (Julia Garner), a 19-year-old described by the sheriff as smart and mean, with her criminal potential “mostly untapped.” With her cherubic blonde curls and Tupac shirts, Ruth is one of the characters the show really tries to flesh out, proving what it could do if it stuck with wholly original ideas.
In a twist on prestige-TV tropes, where teenage daughters tend to be utilized more than sons (Bobby Draper syndrome), Jonah is actually more interesting than Charlotte, with even his parents trying to figure out whether he’s morbid in a sociopath way or a normal, pre-teen boy way. But then there’s Agent Petty (Jason Butler Harner), who hovers on the periphery like a particularly irritating mosquito and whose presence as an FBI agent pursuing Marty adds absolutely nothing to proceedings. Given how laconically Marty responds to the bloodthirsty drug dealers on his back, who cares about some feds thrown into the mix? In combination with the dull gray and blue filters that wash everything out, and the oppressive, low-frequency soundtrack meant to amp up the tension, it all starts to feel like a lot of work for a very uncertain payoff.
What is Dunkirk?
The answer is more complicated than one might imagine. Director Christopher Nolan’s latest is a war film, of course, yet one in which the enemy scarcely makes an appearance. It is a $150 million epic, yet also as lean and spare as a haiku, three brief, almost wordless strands of narrative woven together in a mere 106 minutes of running time. It is classic in its themes—honor, duty, the horror of war—yet simultaneously Nolan’s most radical experiment since Memento. And for all these reasons, it is a masterpiece.
The historical moment captured by the film ascended long ago to the level of martial lore: In May 1940, in the early days of World War II, some 400,000 British and Allied troops were flanked and entrapped by Germany on the beaches of Dunkirk in northern France. Although the Channel was narrow enough that the men could almost see across to England, the waters were too shallow for warships to approach the beaches. So a flotilla of some 700 civilian craft—the “Little Ships of Dunkirk”—made their way from Ramsgate in England to assist in the rescue.
Why Hollywood Should Pay Attention to Dunkirk
When it was announced that Nolan intended to make a film about the evacuation, it was easy to anticipate a kind of Saving Private Ryan in reverse, departing rather than landing upon a French beach. In classic war epic form, there would be the buildup and laying out of context, the unfurling of backstories, the explanation of geography, the rolling waves of sentiment, the tectonic running time. Instead, Nolan has stripped his film bare of such trappings. There are no generals making plans around tables, no loved ones worrying back home, no Winston Churchill. Just the men and the beach and the sea and the sky.
Apart from a handful of Luftwaffe planes, there aren’t even any Nazis, merely the knowledge that their artillery lies over the hills and their U-boats prowl beneath the waves. They are less an enemy than an existential threat, and at times Dunkirk feels less like a war film than a disaster movie. Except for the aerial dogfights, there is no “fighting,” and certainly no “winning.” There is simply not dying.
Nolan’s three stories take place on land, on sea, and in the air, and although they are intercut with surgical precision, they take place over three separate but overlapping spans of time. Over the course of a week, a young British soldier (Fionn Whitehead) makes his way to the beach at Dunkirk, there to wait with the masses of his fellows for a rescue that may or may not arrive. Over the course of a day, a British civilian (Mark Rylance) and two teenagers pilot his small wooden yacht across the Channel to save whomever they can. And over the course of an hour, an RAF Spitfire pilot (Tom Hardy) tussles with the Luftwaffe in the skies, trying to protect the men below. Occasionally these narratives intersect, but more often they merely offer alternative vantages, a Rashomon in which the separate tales are intended to enrich rather than confound one another.
I hesitate to write more about the plot (or plots), in part because “plot” seems almost an improper descriptive term. These are shards of story, at once intimate and clinical. There are moments of harrowing intensity and of profound humanity. Some men live, some die. There is not a great deal of time devoted to their individual characters and motivations, in part because in the latter case they aren’t particularly individual at all: The motivation is to survive. Whether it is to return home to wives or sweethearts or an empty flat is beside the point.
Rylance telegraphs human decency in that customarily exquisite Rylance manner, even when things go terribly wrong with a shell-shocked soldier (Cillian Murphy) he has rescued from the waves. Kenneth Branagh and James D’Arcy display stoic concern as, respectively, the senior naval and army officers on “the mole,” a heavy breakwater jutting into the sea and repurposed to function as a makeshift dock. And, along with Whitehead, relative acting unknowns Jack Lowden, Aneurin Barnard, and Harry Styles (whom Nolan was reportedly unaware was a member of One Direction when he cast him) capture the youth and essential interchangeability of the frightened troops.
To top it off with an inside joke, Hardy’s pilot’s face is covered by goggles and a flight mask, marking the third time in five years (following Mad Max: Fury Road and Nolan’s own The Dark Knight Rises) that he has had to act with his face largely obscured. Not that there is ever any doubt about the owner of those large, evocative eyes.
But ultimately Dunkirk belongs to Nolan and cinematographer Hoyte Van Hoytema, who have crafted the rare film that positively demands to be seen on a large screen. The movie was shot entirely on large-format film (75 percent of it IMAX) and it is being released in 70-mm projection in a remarkable 125 theaters across the country. As George Miller did two years ago with Fury Road, Nolan has made the film using practical effects rather than CGI whenever possible—he even spent $5 million on a vintage Luftwaffe plane in order to crash it—and the difference is palpable. Rarely has the beauty of aerial flight (or the unpleasantness of its failure) been captured so vividly.
The Battle of Dunkirk has always been that most remarkable of war stories: an utter rout reframed—and rightly so—as an iconic victory. At the end of Nolan’s film, when one of the returning men is congratulated, he muses, “All we did is survive.” The reply: “That’s enough.” But it was much more than that. Had those Allied troops not been saved, the history of the war would have been vastly different. And it is hard to imagine a better tribute to this victory of survival than Nolan’s spare, stunning, extraordinarily ambitious film.
It’s an old Jane Austen conundrum: The author never married, but her fiction suggests she was expert in the ways of desire and love. How can that be? What were her desires, and did she act on them? Questions about Austen’s sexuality recently resurfaced in warring headlines, with the BBC TV historian Lucy Worsley suggesting that Austen “almost certainly never had sex with a man and may have instead engaged in ‘lesbian sex.’” Worsley’s conjecture provoked predictable reposts and ripostes. Speculations about Austen’s romantic life have proven reliable fodder for sensational headlines, so it’s unsurprising that they’d resurface this year, with celebrations of the bicentenary of the author’s death at a fever pitch.
Scholars are no closer to pinning down the truth about Austen’s amorous longings and intimate experiences. Yet there’s at least one part of Austen’s legacy that may be described as queer, in the most expansive sense of that word: her posthumous performance history. Starting in the Victorian era, actors and playwrights shifted Austen’s characters away from traditional gender roles and heterosexuality, in works of entertainment that ranged from mildly gender-fluid to perfectly queer. In front of live audiences, Miss Bates was often a man, there were female Darcys aplenty, and the first professional actors playing Jane and Cassandra were real-life lovers.
Austen’s novels themselves offer hints of the unorthodox trends in her afterlife. While her fictional stock-in-trade is courtship between men and women with culminating nuptials, Austen’s characters are not always easily slotted into heteronormative boxes. Critics since the 1950s have been arguing over the extent to which Emma’s heroine, Emma Woodhouse, skews more masculine than feminine. They’ve debated whether she has a crush (or more) on her protégée Harriet Smith, as the Austen scholar Claudia L. Johnson has explored. The critic D.A. Miller has taken up the question of whether Sense and Sensibility’s Robert Ferrars’s sexuality ought to be called into question because of his fussing over the purchase of a toothpick case.
Both characters end up in traditional marriages, despite Austen describing them in ways that challenge presumptions about their heterosexuality and acceptance of gender norms. What has gone previously unrecognized is just how often early performers and writers engaged in similar subversion and played with Austen’s characters on stage. One of the earliest ways the author’s posthumous fame was extended to mass audiences was in read-aloud performance, with male elocutionists giving voice to Austen’s most famous spinster, the profoundly irritating Miss Bates from Emma (1815), in a popular set piece titled “The Voluble Lady.”
Austen, of course, never wrote anything called “The Voluble Lady.” The work is an excerpt of Emma culled by the writer-publisher Charles Knight in his periodical-turned-book series, Half-Hours With the Best Authors, which was reprinted from the 1840s to the 1890s. “The Voluble Lady” (a title that Knight made up) features Miss Bates chattering about her niece Jane Fairfax’s hair, friends, dances, and food in her breathlessly non-stop way. Taken from the confines of private reading, Miss Bates’s dialogue began to appear in comic routines. As I uncovered in my original research, English newspapers reported it being acted out by men: In 1861, a performance by a Mr. H. Joyner prompted an “echo of laughter” and “rapturous applause.” The Rev. H. Ray Hill played the “fidgetty old lady” to “roars of laughter” in 1865. The noted actor Henry Forrester used “The Voluble Lady” as his climactic bit in 1870.
These routines from Emma weren’t designed as gender-progressive acts. Victorian spinsters were widely considered “failed women,” and “The Voluble Lady” exists along that sexist continuum. But having a male actor voice the middle-aged Miss Bates’s mock-protest against taking the arm of the young, attractive Frank Churchill (“My dear sir, you are too obliging. Is there nobody you would not rather?—I am not helpless.”) and speak her clear pleasure at being seated next to him at dinner (“Where I sit is of no consequence. Oh, do you recommend this side? ... just as you please.”) emphasizes the flirtation beneath these lines. These speeches would have been played—as their title suggests—loudly, broadly: men mock-flirting with men.
A few decades after the vogue for male actors delivering coquettish lines to Frank Churchill, a spate of Austen-inspired female actors pretended to fall in love with other women on stage. In fact, as I discovered in research for my new book, The Making of Jane Austen, the first known Mr. Darcy to take the stage was a woman. An amateur performance of Pride and Prejudice, put on at Wellesley College in 1899, was mounted with an all-female cast. The script doesn’t appear to have survived, but all seven of the play’s male characters were performed by female students. If a surviving photo is an accurate indicator, each actor approached her romantic part with gusto, including hand holding, shoulder grazing, and neck gazing.
This all-female Pride and Prejudice wasn’t an outlier. Amateur dramatizations of Austen first emerged and proliferated in the early 20th century, and Pride and Prejudice frequently featured women in every role. At the University of Michigan in 1907, the senior girls performed Pride and Prejudice: A Play Founded on Jane Austen’s Novel (1906), by the playwright Mary Keith Medbery MacKaye. By 1910, MacKaye’s play was touted as having been “acted at many universities.” It features 10 men’s and 10 women’s parts, but surviving copies of the book have female actors’ names penciled in the margins of the cast list. (One in my possession shows the male characters were performed by two Alices, a Margaret, and a Mabel.)
In some ways, women playing Austen’s men in this era is predictable. Casting women in men’s parts gained traction in the United States and Europe by the early 20th century; in a turnabout from Shakespeare’s day, when men played women’s parts, fin de siècle Hamlet was often a woman. In this period of fashionable male impersonation, then, an all-female Pride and Prejudice cast may have seemed par for the course. But a signal difference is that these other plays were not romantic comedies with repeated marriage proposals, showcasing both failed and successful love scenes. The unconventionally cast Austen adaptations were thematically suited to heightening queer readings of  the novelist’s work.
MacKaye’s Pride and Prejudice offers up a Darcy who is bombastically, stereotypically manly. He swears (“Damn!”) and once cracks a whip in front of Elizabeth. He threatens the absent Lady Catherine with the line, “She shall be set right, I assure you!” It’s an aggressive scene that must have played far differently with a female Darcy, whose violent behavior would have come across as mock-manly, and perhaps even playful, rather than as hyper-masculine intimidation. It seems ripe for reading as a comic subversion of male expectations of female obedience. (The forceful physicality of the scene is fascinating regardless.)
There were touching moments in MacKaye’s Pride and Prejudice, too. In one scene, Elizabeth reaches for Darcy’s hand and pleads, “Take me home, Mr. Darcy! Take me home!” The play ends with Darcy’s rushing toward Elizabeth and folding her in his arms. Again, there’s no saying what actually happened in performance. Even if stage directions were followed precisely, having a woman playing a man holding another woman’s hand, or falling into an embrace, may have been less risqué for a female student actor than the opposite-sex alternative.
Still, many young women at this time would have memorized Austen-inspired lines of dialogue in order to deliver them looking deeply into the eyes of other women. The number of audience members who watched female actors locked in such gazes likely numbered in the thousands. Darcy, filtered as he’s been through the rom-com-industrial-complex, may seem to readers today as an obvious sex object for straight women. But his being played in drag a century ago suggests the potential for other kinds of desire, on stage and in the audience.
Portrayals of Austen’s female characters by men, and male characters by women, weren’t exactly seeking to lock her stories down in the service of heterosexuality. But the queer potential of Austen on stage became unmistakable in 1932 with the New York debut of the first biographical play about the author, Dear Jane. The playwright Eleanor Holmes Hinkley—T. S. Eliot’s first cousin—had written Dear Jane with a female-centric take on Austen’s story. Hinkley’s play imagines the path that led Austen to choose a writing life without marriage, turning down three successive, flawed male suitors who resemble Mr. Collins, Mr. Wickham, and Mr. Darcy. Jane rejects them because they don’t support her writing career, though her sister Cassandra fills that void, in Hinkley’s version.
Dear Jane resembles the contemporary biopics Becoming Jane (2007) and Miss Austen Regrets (2008) despite antedating them by almost a century. The major difference is that, at the end of Hinkley’s play, a young Jane runs off into the darkness with Cassandra, in a quasi-elopement. When Dear Jane was first performed at New York’s Civic Repertory Theatre, the parts of Cassandra and Jane were played, respectively, by the English-born theatrical whiz kid Eva Le Gallienne and her girlfriend, the recently divorced American starlet, Josephine Hutchinson. The two women had already been outed as a couple in the newspapers, and their off-stage relationship prompted snarky comments from Dear Jane’s reviewers. One critic claimed he couldn’t hear Hutchinson delivering the play’s final lines, suggesting he thought she may have said “my queer own pen.” (The line was “quill pen.”)
Taken together, these lesser-known stories suggest that actors and playwrights had opportunities to explore Austen’s work and life beyond the constraints of sexual and gendered conventions before critics thought to do so. But as scholars caught on in the mid-20th century, Austen-inspired pop culture evolved, too. Queering Austen on film was even more direct and active than on the stage. Amy Heckerling’s cult classic Clueless (1995) replaces Emma’s straight, striving clergyman Mr. Elton with Christian, a gay Californian teen. The new movie Before the Fall, described as a “modern gay take” with a “queer spin” on Austen, is set in present-day Virginia and was released on Amazon in June.
Perhaps the queering in Austen adaptations will strike contemporary readers as new because she’s so often seen as the go-to novelist for celebrating marriage between a man and a woman. Although Austen’s own sexuality may come under periodic scrutiny, her fiction has been consistently sold to readers as reinforcing a world where men are men, women are women, and everyone ought to play it straight. But on the page, and especially in performance, Austen’s life, fiction, and legacy have challenged audiences to consider—and appreciate—a broader range of gender identities and relationships for a very long time.

America prides itself on pluralism and tolerance, but how far does that tolerance extend when it comes to religious expression? Could faith in general be on the decline?
Radio Atlantic cohosts Jeffrey Goldberg (editor in chief), Alex Wagner (contributing editor and CBS anchor), and Matt Thompson (executive editor) explore those questions with Emma Green, who covers religion and politics for The Atlantic.
Links:
Chester Bennington started as a rock star by saying that he was finished. “I cannot take this anymore / saying everything I’ve said before” went the opening lines to Linkin Park’s first smash, “One Step Closer,” which is among the many, many songs that take on an awful resonance after the news that Bennington has died, in what’s being investigated as suicide, at age 41.
Linkin Park became one of the most popular and most divisive bands of the new millennium because of their genre blending and pop polish, but to listen to that debut single is to remember that they were also differentiated by a core of raw, convincing pain. It almost entirely came from Bennington. He was arguably the purest font of angst—and inarguably one of the most powerful male voices—in mainstream music since 2000.
The Hope of Chris Cornell
“He sang like a fucking beast, the same way he sings now,” Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda recalled to Kerrang in 2008, describing Bennington’s 1999 audition for Shinoda’s new group that was looking to blend hip-hop and metal. Whether in Linkin Park or earlier bands like Grey Daze, Bennington could scream—really scream, in the way that vicariously makes the listener’s vocal cords hurt. But he also had a balladeer’s smoothness and sense of melody that showed his tastes as a listener. In 2014, he listed his influences on Twitter: “Depeche Mode, The Cure, The Misfits, Fugazi, Minor Threat, The Smiths, Skinny Puppy, Nitzer Ebb, Ministry, x.”
He also listened to a lot of grunge, and Bennington’s death inevitably and unfortunately shall now be linked to those of singers from that movement. Foremost among them is Chris Cornell, the Soundgarden singer who killed himself in May and whose birthday would have been Thursday, the day Bennington’s body was found. Bennington, married and the father of six, released a moving note following Cornell’s death that read in part, “your voice was joy and pain, anger and forgiveness, love and heartache all wrapped up into one. I suppose that’s what we all are. You helped me understand that.” Bennington also performed a stint from 2013 to 2015 as vocalist for Stone Temple Pilots, another ’90s rock influence of his whose original singer, Scott Weiland, died in December 2015.

Grunge’s disaffection, though, was more self-indicting than the anguish Bennington aired. His sorrows were those not of the nihilist but of the aggrieved, someone deeply betrayed by an ever-present “you.” Bennington talked openly over the years about being sexually abused by an older male figure during childhood, and he said both his songwriting and his persistent struggles with drugs and alcohol were partly reactions to that trauma. In “One Step Closer,” he cooed and gasped about getting ever-closer to “the edge” because of “everything you say to me.” The true thrill of the song came when his seething finally gave way to him wailing, over and over again, “Shut up when I’m talking to you!”
Linkin Park’s sound has always been omnivorous, and the band deserves more credit than it gets for the way it prophesied the current moment in which rock’s drama and pop sweetness and rap’s swagger seem to combine on more Hot 100 hits than not. While Shinoda and his bandmates worked on projecting attitude and geeky cool, Bennington contributed a lot of said sweetness and even more of said drama. Song after song he seemed to revisit the same wounds, and the impression almost always was of the scrawny sensitive soul finally pushing back after a lifetime of abuse. He was unapologetically a victim—the solace Linkin Park provided, with its techno-futuristic beats and energizing power chords and Shinoda’s stern boasts, was in turning victim into righteous superhero.
The band, experimental from the start, has pushed its sound a few different directions over the years—proggy and aggro on 2014’s The Hunting Party, EDM-adjacent prettiness for this year’s One More Light—and Bennington adapted to all of it. But his point of view didn’t waver much. In 2000, he vented about tormenters making him consider “the edge” and “the end”; in one particularly plaintive 2014 cut, he was, again, contemplating bitter endings with the title “Final Masquerade.” There were hopeful exceptions, though. On 2003’s “Breaking the Habit,” a twitchy and defiantly un-heavy career highlight, he sang of trying to will away self-destruction. And Linkin Park’s most recent album’s title track will be playing a lot in the coming days, no doubt. “Who cares if one more light goes out,” Bennington sang. “Well, I do.”

Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets is a film that refuses to let a single action sequence play out simply. Its director, Luc Besson, has long excelled at set pieces with a twist—think of the backwards car chase in his last feature, Lucy. But for his newest project, he’s painting on a far grander canvas: A tense showdown at an alien bazaar unfolds in two different dimensions that exist in the same space. In a chase scene, the movie’s hero has to blast straight through dozens of walls in a space station to have any hope of catching his quarry. A high-dive rescue mission gets complicated by the presence of aliens fishing for humans with giant poles.
In an era of expensive, paint-by-numbers blockbusters, Besson’s latest, and biggest, film is a day-glo delight, a true original that deserves to be remembered despite—or perhaps partly because of—its various silly excesses. The movie is based on the landmark French comic series Valérian and Laureline, a ’60s pop sci-fi classic about two “spatio-temporal agents” who travel the galaxy together fighting crime. To do this widely beloved work justice, Besson has aimed as high as possible, delivering a $200 million-plus epic that hardly lets a minute go by without lobbing some new bit of visual trickery at the viewer.
How The Fifth Element Subverted Sci-Fi Movies
Valerian is the rare film I’d actually recommend trying to see in 3-D; the effects, while plentiful, are rendered with gorgeous clarity. Like a lot of Besson’s work, it’ll probably largely be dismissed as a stylish mess upon release, eventually becoming a cult classic one can imagine captivating midnight theater-goers for decades to come. But Valerian is animated by the same humanist impulses that have driven all of Besson’s best movies—from Léon: The Professional to The Fifth Element—and it has much more to offer than just dizzying spectacle.
Valerian opens with a wonderful montage charting the creation of the massive interstellar city of the film’s title, Alpha—a conglomeration of space stations and hundreds of alien races that has slowly grown over the centuries. But the story is also concerned with an unnamed paradise planet, populated by big-eyed, gem-farming aliens, that was destroyed in a mysterious cataclysm. That Armageddon event is somehow tied to strange goings-on at Alpha, and it’s up to the space-soldiers Valerian (Dane DeHaan) and Laureline (Cara Delevingne) to investigate.
The dastardly plot at the center of it all is straightforward enough. But Besson (who also wrote the script) layers in absurd side stories and complicated pieces of world-building, much of it surely straight from the comics, to keep the film’s hefty 137-minute running time from feeling slack. After the early mission at the multi-dimensional bazaar, both Valerian and Laureline get to indulge in their own solo missions and interact with various wacky supporting characters (the most important of whom is Bubble, a shape-shifting alien played by Rihanna) before finally solving the main puzzle of the doomed beach planet.
The convoluted plotting and manic visuals are easy enough to get on board with, especially if you’re fond of space operas like Star Wars (Valerian especially reminded me of George Lucas’s prequels, except it knows how to have fun) or the Wachowskis’ Jupiter Ascending. But, as with those movies, the dialogue is at times overly expositional, and attempts at humor or romance can be remote and clunky—Besson’s skill as a writer has never been his banter, which this film has plenty of, especially when it’s introducing the dynamic between Valerian and Laureline.
But stick with it through its awkward early moments, and Valerian will yield deeper insights into Besson’s overall artistic philosophy. DeHaan’s deadpan work quickly grew on me once I understood the arc he was going for: a hard-bitten soldier becoming more comfortable with disobeying orders in the name of the greater good. I hadn’t bought the hype on Delevingne as a movie star before now—her biggest roles were in the young-adult drama Paper Towns and the train wreck that was Suicide Squad—but she’s magnetic here, perfectly embodying Besson’s conception of heroism (which tends to be more open-hearted than the wise-cracking, aloof version typical of Hollywood movies).
Valerian is the kind of science-fiction film that doesn’t get made enough anymore. It’s unafraid to embrace the expansive potential of its genre, to make each new location, costume, and alien creature feel like the wildest version of itself. Besson’s ambitions remain as limitless as they were in his first go-round at the genre, 20 years ago, and they may doom Valerian to “intriguing curio” status rather than out-of-the-box sensation. But it doesn’t have to be that way. Valerian deserves to be seen by as many people as possible, a cinema experience that takes advantage of every moment it has with you.
In November 1861, the poet Julia Ward Howe took the melody of the abolitionist singalong “John Brown’s Body” and added a new set of lyrics meant to inspire the Union to righteous victory. The editors of The Atlantic published those lyrics in February 1862 with the title “The Battle Hymn of the Republic,” christening a patriotic standard that would accompany not only the Civil War but also the Civil Rights struggle and America’s wars abroad.  
This year, the 30-year-old jazz star Jon Batiste reinterpreted “The Battle Hymn of the Republic” to serve as the theme song for The Atlantic’s first podcast, Radio Atlantic, which launches Friday. Composed entirely on a prepared piano—that is, one with items placed in or on its strings to create different sounds—his enigmatic new version blends influences from around the world. (You can watch Batiste in the studio here and hear the full version of the song on Radio Atlantic.)
I spoke with Batiste on Wednesday about some of the thinking that went into overhauling such a familiar song. This conversation has been edited.
Spencer Kornhaber: This is a patriotic song, and we’re in a moment when people are arguing over what patriotism means. Did that factor in to your reinterpretation?
Jon Batiste Reinterprets 'Battle Hymn of the Republic' for The Atlantic
Jon Batiste: I think about patriotism as a way for us to foster camaraderie—but not at the exclusion of anyone else. There’s a line there, and that line is starting to get a little blurred in these times that we live in. Our brand of patriotism is one that’s, at its best, welcoming.
If you listen, it’s fairly explicit that I wasn’t trying to do the traditional American version of the song. There are a lot of influences from indigenous folk music around the world: Indian music, African music, early blues and folk, which is what a lot of American music is based on. It’s a very globalized version of the song, and that to me is a picture of what the world is becoming.
Kornhaber: I definitely hear that in this version. I also hear a different emotion than the original. It’s more mysterious and unsettled.
Batiste: It has a bittersweet emotion. The ethos of the song, to me, in 2017, is much different than 1862. I’m thinking about what we’re going through in the country right now, and what we’ve done with the mythology that we were given. When you think about those things, it’s not a happy journey, it’s not a journey that hasn’t had its struggles. Arguably we have regressed.
Putting that pain and struggle in the arrangement was really important. It was almost subconscious, because when you think about the song, you go there.
Kornhaber: The “Battle Hymn of the Republic” has always been a war song. Is this version a war song?
Batiste: Yes. If you think about the history of our people and if you think about how many wars have created great music, the “Battle Hymn” is almost at the beginning of that tradition.
Kornhaber: How so?
Batiste: There’s always a great soundtrack to a terrible situation, and that’s how our culture continues to grow. If you go back to African American slavery, there are the folk songs and the work songs and the negro spirituals and the blues, which gave us jazz. You think about Vietnam, and you think about all of the rock and roll: Jimi Hendrix’s “Star-Spangled Banner” at Woodstock. Something about struggle pulls this creative expression out of us.

Kornhaber: Part of what made the original such an effective march song was not only the percussion but the way the melody was rigid-feeling, lockstep. You’ve done a really interesting thing and kind of unchained the melody from the rhythm. What was behind that decision?
Batiste: There are different types of marches, and a drone is one of them. So I put some duct tape on some of the lower piano strings to create the sound of the drum, and then on some of the lower strings I tried to create the sound of a Gregorian chant, someone humming: hmmmm, hmmmm, hmmmm.
To me, those two things together create a really pensive sound. The melody just doesn’t fit as well over something so pensive when it’s played straight. It has to be played almost as if it’s being improvised in the moment.
Kornhaber: What other elements from the original composition did you want to retain or reference?
Batiste: That march feel. It’s not a typical march that a band would play in 1862; it’s more a mix of different forms of drum circles, like the New Orleans drum circle or the African drum circle.
Also, with the idea of playing it on piano, it’s connected to the original in that there’s nothing electronic, it’s all acoustic. But the piano’s never found in a march. So in that way it’s not connected. (Laughs.)
I tried to put an element of the blues in there because it’s not in the original, [which] feels more like a hymn. When you think about the connection of the hymn with the blues, they’re one and the same—one is almost a secular version of the other.
Kornhaber: The story of the version of the song that The Atlantic published in 1862 is that Julia Ward Howe heard “John Brown’s Body,” went back to her hotel, and supposedly in a trance-like state saw new lyrics, as if from God. Does that at all compare with experiences you’ve had creating music?
Batiste: Oh, absolutely. I believe it all comes from God. When I think about the music that I play—in fact, I don’t think about it. I try to let my subconscious mind take over. And after the fact I’ll listen and see what’s there and analyze it, almost like writing an outline after you’ve written a paper. I do believe that it’s from the grace of the unseen.
Kornhaber: What other versions of the “Battle Hymn of the Republic” do you find interesting?
Batiste: It’s actually something that I listened to as a kid that really was a big influence. Oscar Peterson did a version of “John Brown’s Body,” but it was a jazz version. I listened to that hundreds of times as a kid when I was learning how to play. I loved the melody.

Kornhaber: How would you or someone else go about creating something that could become a “Battle Hymn” of today? Not a cover but a new patriotic standard.
Batiste: You have to write with the intention of addressing a dire situation in the culture. But even if you do address racism or sexism or any of these things, you still can’t guarantee it’ll be a standard. That’s one of those things that’s preordained—you can’t really say “I’m going to do this.” The only way is to continue to address the culture with your output, and at some point, maybe, it’ll become a standard.
All six of Jane Austen’s novels end with weddings. On the final page of Northanger Abbey, readers are informed that “Henry and Catherine were married, the bells rang, and everybody smiled.” Sense and Sensibility concludes with a twofer: Elinor and Edward are married “in Barton church early in the autumn,” and Marianne is “placed in a new home” with Colonel Brandon. Pride and Prejudice’s Mrs. Bennet gets “rid of her two most deserving daughters” on the same day. Mansfield Park ends with Fanny and Edmund married, and their happiness “as secure as earthly happiness can be.” In Emma, the titular character and Mr. Knightley are wed with “no taste for finery or parade,” but with “perfect happiness” in their union. Anne Elliot, “tenderness itself,” is married to Captain Wentworth in the last chapter of Persuasion, with only the prospect of war casting a shadow over her contentment.
The wide-ranging influence of Austen’s marriage plots is hard to quantify. Nor is it entirely her fault. When Carrie marries Mr. Big at the end of Sex and the City, not with a bang but a City Hall whimper, the “happily-ever-after” conclusion is as much a nod to the conventions of fairy tales (the shoe fits) as it is to Austen’s satirical romances. And yet there are few other authors who’ve so reliably concluded stories about women with accounts of their marriages. Austen’s weddings mark a natural endpoint, offering finite resolution (marriage in 19th-century England was almost entirely irreversible) and domestic and financial security for her heroines. They also set a standard for romantic comedies that’s been impossibly pervasive: Women’s stories end, definitively, with marriage.
For me at least, this has long been a source of some irritation. Marriage plots, satisfying as they are, only offer a tiny window into a woman’s life, and they imply that getting married is easily the most significant thing she will ever do. They zero in on the “before” at the expense of the “after.” (Fan fiction alone will testify to the rampant curiosity about the state of Elizabeth and Darcy’s marriage, and not just in the bedroom.) They also lead to culture focusing predominantly on younger women. Even in Austen’s work, the scholar Judith Lowder Newton has written, “marriage demands resignation even as it prompts rejoicing, initiates new life while it confirms a flickering suspicion that the best is over.”
Austen’s six novels achieved varying commercial success throughout her life, but their impact on storytelling in Western culture has been profound. Every time a rom-com ends with an engagement, or a wedding, or even a counterintuitive promise to be unmarried to someone for the rest of their life (Four Weddings and a Funeral), their influence feels palpable. Loving Austen unequivocally, then, means coming to terms with the paradox at the heart of her work: No one did more to challenge the conventions and strictures of marriage for women in the 19th century, while simultaneously enshrining it as the ultimate happy ending for her worthy, intelligent, and independent characters.
* * *
Jane Austen was born in 1775, toward the end of the 18th century, a period that saw the forceful emergence of an English middle class. Men who hadn’t inherited land could seek prosperity as businessmen or clergymen, or as officers in the army and navy (Captain Wentworth, in Persuasion, returns a wealthy man from the Napoleonic Wars thanks to money he earned by capturing enemy ships). But the flip side of a shifting economy, as the historian Kirstin Olsen notes, was “the gradual disappearance of respectable work for middle-class women.” Women were barred from becoming lawyers, doctors, politicians, or judges, which left them, Olsen writes, “with not occupations but hobbies: music, drawing, needlework, and artistic or social patronage.”
Austen’s sense of frustration about this enforced and unequal uselessness is detectable even in her earlier works. Sense and Sensibility, which she started working on before 1796, begins with three daughters plunged into poverty when their father dies and their brother inherits the family estate. At the time, the only means women had of bettering themselves was marriage. Austen’s novels follow the structural model of romances and fairy tales, where circumstances and complications keep a couple from their inevitable union. But they also consistently refer to the economic realities of marriage for women, which none of her characters can afford to ignore. In Pride and Prejudice, Austen wryly introduces Mr. Darcy by writing that “he soon drew the attention of the room by his fine, tall person, handsome features, noble mien, and the report which was in general circulation within five minutes after his entrance of his having ten thousand a year.”
This tension between naively interpreting marriage as a love match and cynically calculating its potential profits is embodied in Pride and Prejudice by two very different characters. Lydia Bennet pursues men thoughtlessly and wantonly, without regard to their economic situation or their potential as providers. Charlotte Lucas, by contrast, marries Mr. Collins, a buffoon, purely for financial security, horrifying her friend Elizabeth in the process. “Without thinking highly either of men or matrimony,” Austen writes of Charlotte, “marriage had always been her object; it was the only provision for well-educated young women of small fortune, and however uncertain of giving happiness, must be their pleasantest preservative from want.”
Elizabeth, by contrast to both Charlotte and Lydia, is Austen’s attempt to reconcile two different imperatives—to prove that marriage can be both a true love match between two compatible people and a means of significant economic improvement for women. Austen, the scholar Karen Newman writes, “exposes the fundamental discrepancy in her society between its avowed ideology of love and its implicit economic motivation.” The very first sentence of Pride and Prejudice is a wink; a statement that single men in possession of good fortunes must be in want of a wife, when all of Austen’s readers know the opposite to be true—single women with no fortune or means to speak of are very much in need of husbands. As Henry Tilney, Catherine’s love interest, states in Northanger Abbey, “Man has the advantage of choice; woman only the power of refusal.”
This reality makes marriage not just an objective but a business that otherwise unoccupied women can devote significant time to. The first third of Pride and Prejudice, Lowder Newton notes, “consists of very little but women talking or thinking or scheming about men.” In Sense and Sensibility, Mrs. Jennings, an independently wealthy woman whose daughters are married, devotes herself to making matches for other young women in a kind of self-appointed act of community service. In Emma, Emma Woodhouse is a rich young woman who has no need to get married, but she also takes to matchmaking with enthusiastic and misguided gusto, causing chaos with her lack of regard to the realities of social classes.
The reason why Austen, who never married, leads all her characters to the altar in concluding their stories is relatively simple. Narrative conventions in comedy require happy endings. Austen obeyed the rigid strictures of the marriage plot, but she also subversively forced her readers to see the awkward reality of marriage for women. Some critics argue that she doesn’t go far enough in challenging it as an institution: In Pride and Prejudice, Lowder Newton argues, “Elizabeth’s … untraditional power is rewarded not with some different life but with woman’s traditional life, with love and marriage.” Others, like William H. Magee, counter that Austen reworked the marriage plot to suit her own agenda. “By doing so,” he writes, “she made the convention a vital feature of her own art and developed it into a criticism of the life allotted by her society to young women of the times.”
* * *
Two hundred years after her death, Austen’s marriage plots remain very much a part of the cultural framework. “Ever since the days of Jane Austen,” Koa Beck wrote in The Atlantic in 2014, “pop-culture consumers have been drawn to stories about female protagonists who find ‘happily ever after’ in marriage and motherhood.” The thriving genre of wedding movies, rather than exposing the contradictions at the heart of the institution of marriage, mocks the gargantuan business of planning a wedding, exposed in Bride Wars, and 27 Dresses, and The Wedding Planner, and The Wedding Singer. Austen would surely approve.
But she might also question why so many works of popular culture haven’t done more to expand the boundaries of telling stories about women’s lives. Worldwide, the highest-grossing film of 2017 so far is Beauty and the Beast, an adaptation of a fairy tale written to prepare young French girls for arranged marriages. As a novelist, Austen was keenly attuned to culture’s powers of persuasion. In Northanger Abbey, Catherine Morland is almost brought to disaster by all the Gothic novels she reads, which lead her to interpret ordinary events as sensational and supernatural.
For me, making peace with Austen’s marriage plots, and the many, many imitators they sparked, means considering the fact that she overestimated her audience. She used the rituals of romantic comedy to expose what marriage really meant for women who had no other means of economic improvement, hoping that we’d see the injustice of it. She gave her heroines a kind of power and agency that she herself lacked. “When Austen allows Elizabeth to express critical attitudes,” Lowder Newton writes, “to act upon them without penalty, when she endows Elizabeth with the power to alter her lot, Austen is moving against traditional notions of feminine behavior and feminine fate.”
What contemporary culture took from her novels, though, is that stories about complex, intriguing women should end in marriage, however improbably. It’s the moral of The Philadelphia Story, and Gentlemen Prefer Blondes, and While You Were Sleeping, and The Princess Diaries 2. Clueless, an adaptation of Emma, nods to the rule by wrapping up with a wedding fakeout—it isn’t Cher who’s getting married, but her homely teacher Miss Geist. Concluding with a wedding implies that all involved live happily ever after, something even Austen knew was unlikely. Her ending to Mansfield Park, in which the happiness of Fanny and Edmund is “as secure as earthly happiness can be,” includes an ironic tip of the hat to readers who know by experience that earthly happiness is rarely as reliable as storytellers would have it.
There’s a ritual that takes place, several times, during each 22-minute episode of the reality-show juggernaut Say Yes to the Dress. A bride-to-be, who will typically arrive at Kleinfeld’s Manhattan wedding emporium with friends and family in tow, will first introduce the group (her “entourage,” the show will call them) to the person who will be her personal attendant throughout her Kleinfeld Experience. The bride will then be spirited away, from the “Bridal Floor” and its effusions of white, to a simple dressing room. There, she and her attendant will get down to business. “How do you want to look,” the consultant will ask her, with cheerful solemnity, “on your wedding day?”
The bride will reply instantly (“classic,” “ethereal,” “edgy,” “like Beyoncé,” “like a princess”), and if she does not—if, indeed, she betrays any uncertainty about her bridal Look and/or Style and/or Philosophy—the attendant will allow a shadow of disapproval to cross her face. This is part of the ritual. After all, in the Kleinfeld cosmos, a Wedding Day is not really a matter of legal pragmatism, or of religious tradition, or even, really, of love; it is an act of determined transformation. It is a day about Dreams—Dreams whose roots have been growing in the bride’s mind and heart ever since, as it goes, she was a little girl. Dreams made manifest in that most quintessentially American of manners: through the purchase of an extremely expensive piece of clothing.
The Appealing Earnestness of 'Say Yes to the Dress'
Say Yes to the Dress is capitalizing, in that, on a moment in American life that makes the term “wedding industrial complex” seem at once undeniably accurate and impossibly quaint. While participation in marriage, in the U.S., has been declining steadily over the past 40 years, participation in the parties that celebrate the institution has been expanding—if through no other method than the workings of cultural osmosis. Weddings, these days, are everywhere. Take all those “exclusive” celebrity wedding photos in People. All those punny wedding hashtags (#ForeverYounge, #ToHaveAndToHolton, #OneHaleOfaWedding) punctuating social media feeds. All those whimsical wedding salons that have been added, in recent years, to Anthropologie stores in malls the nation over. All those bridal bootcamps that promise to tone women’s shoulders, arms, and backs to ensure that their wedding Looks will be properly picturesque. All those movies that celebrate the dramas and the delightful absurdities of the nuptial events. And, yes: all those wedding-centered reality shows.
It’s a situation—weddings, dissolved and distributed across pop culture—that in one way simply reflects the obvious: Weddings can be awesome. They’re fun. They’re festive. They’re ever more egalitarian. And they do, as well, that rarest of things: They bring people together, across geographies and generations and, sometimes, classes. (Say Yes to the Dress celebrates that breadth: In casting a diverse array of brides, the show emphasizes the idea that nuptial bliss can be enjoyed by anyone who cares enough to seek it.) That communal sensibility—families and friends joining together, just as the couple does—is a special thing. So special, in fact, that, according to the wedding-info site The Knot, Americans spent an average of $35,329 on their weddings in 2016, not including honeymoons—“an all-time high,” the site notes.
But it’s the products at the periphery of the wedding industry, the TV shows and magazines and Pinterest boards and The Knot itself, that have helped to put another kind of spin on that age-old celebration of newly forged family. Nuptials, in the pop-cultured conception, are not merely parties, but gauzy exercises in self-expression. They are intricate productions of the theater of the self, performed as a one-time show. The American wedding, at this point, makes a promise not just about undying love or enduring companionship, but also about something simpler and more radical: It insists, in an age of uncertainty and anxiety, that Dreams themselves—no matter how whimsical, no matter how unusual, no matter how idiosyncratic—can be, with the proper investment, realized.
* * *
Call it the wedding theatrical complex. And while you can attribute its emergence to many things, one of them must be a single book published 30 years ago, in July of 1987. Martha Stewart Weddings was in one way simply the sequel to Martha Stewart Entertaining, the 1982 tome that helped to establish Stewart as a celebrity, authority, and household name. Weddings tells the stories of more than 40 marriage celebrations—intimate ones, huge ones, fancy ones, relatively casual ones, staged at sites across the country—all produced with Stewart’s signature and immaculate attention to detail. There are Knot-esque narratives about each couple and the events they plan, categorized by venue (The Farmhouse Wedding, The Summer House Wedding, The Yacht Club Wedding, The At-Home Wedding, The Rental Space Wedding, The Crystal Palace Wedding). And there are more instructional sections, as well, offering detailed advice about each component of the journey to “I do”: the Invitation, the Dress, the Bouquet, the Ceremony, the Music, the Decoration. There are suggested wedding menus (the Garden Party in Pink, the High-Style Wedding Lunch, the Formal Winter Pork Dinner). There are recipes (more than 120 of them). There are many, many photographs, rendered—this was a novelty, in 1987—in sumptuous color.
So Weddings found Martha Stewart doing what she is so consummately excellent at doing: She saw where things were heading. She observed the broad evolution of the American wedding, up to that point—the conscientious austerity of the ’30s and ’40s, the careful formality of the ’50s, the counter-cultural backlash of the ’60s and ’70s—and realized that another kind of reaction was stirring. This was the ’80s, after all: the decade of Dynasty and greed is good and Princess Diana’s silk-billowing bridal gown. Weddings, Stewart saw, were about to become similarly puffed up. They’d ride the economic boom times of the later ’80s and the celebrity culture of the ’90s and the social media-driven individualism of the ’00s to evolve into what they have become, generally, today: celebrations not just of two people deciding to merge their assets, but also of celebration itself—its pageantry and its unapologetic excess.
Stewart, in other words, understood that weddings were so marketable specifically because weddings were so meaningful. “Of all the events in the course of a human life,” she writes in the book’s introduction, “a wedding may be the richest—in fact, in folklore, in spirit. By almost any measure—the dreams extended, the energy and funds expended, the planning, the paraphernalia, even the quality of tears shed—it emerges as monumental.”
Martha Stewart Weddings, as an object, is more than 370 pages long and 5.6 pounds in weight. Its pages are stationery-thick. Its photography is opulent. It is, in its own way, monumental. And as a philosophy, Weddings embraces the idea that has animated the 15 seasons of Say Yes to the Dress and its counterparts, across American culture: Weddings takes for granted the profound connection between “wedding” and “identity.” It understands nuptials as singular expressions of selfhood. Stewart, with the help of the writer Elizabeth Hawes, meditates, in Weddings, on the definition of style—a word that “often carries a trendy connotation,” but that is, in fact, derived from the Latin stylus. “Like handwriting,” Stewart notes, style “derives from innate rhythms and expresses something personal and unique.” And style, that profound mingling of the intimate and the transcendent, should be the driving force behind any wedding.
It was—Wedding Portrait in a Convex Mirror—in some ways a radical proposition. By 1987, the shifts of earlier eras, the sexual revolution and the women’s movement in particular, had partially deprived the marriage celebration of the significance it once had: the beginning, at least officially, of the bride’s sexual life. And into the vacuum was coming a new meaning, one informed by contemporary notions of selfhood and celebrity and the moral power of aspiration. In the movie Working Girl, released in 1988, Tess (Melanie Griffith) and Jack (Harrison Ford) crash a comically spectacular wedding—a themed event whose only real cultural reference point seems to be “tropical.” Set in a ballroom, the party features thatched-roof palapas, umbrella-festooned drinks, and servers clad in pith helmets. The bridesmaids, however, wear puffy pink satin; the Latin band plays “Isn’t It Romantic.” There’s a cartoonish—and even grotesque—feel to the whole thing, and yet the event nicely reflects its times: Here is a bride, viewers are meant to understand, who has perfectly understood her own wedding Style. And who has channeled that Style into a production that is the height of something personal and unique.
So Martha Stewart understood 30 years ago what every Kleinfeld consultant and every Kleinfeld-approved bride today takes for granted: that, in the great performance of the modern wedding—the reading of the poems and the saying of the vows and the dancing of the dances—families and friends and those people who have the misfortune to be neither bride nor groom are supporting players at best. There is no “team” in “wedding,” after all, but there is very definitely an “i.” What Stewart grasped, long before others would, was a broader transformation afoot in American culture: a shift toward a kind of restless individualism. The historian and social critic Christopher Lasch published his book The Culture of Narcissism less than a decade before Martha Stewart Weddings; the scholar Robert Putnam published his essay Bowling Alone less than a decade after it. Both works were indictments of what the authors diagnosed as the decline of community-mindedness in America. Both were, in their way, indictments of Style.
But Style is a powerful thing. And it is also, of course, a costly thing. In 1950, the film Father of the Bride focused on the financial pressures borne by the eponymous dad—“bridesmaids and churches,” “automobiles and flowers,” “and heaven knows what!” he complains—but emphasized that the pressures existed in the first place because the Bankses were expected to give their daughter the kind of wedding their friends had given theirs. In 1991, the movie’s remake thoroughly recalibrated those expectations. The wedding whose bill the Bankses foot, its opulence expanded with the help of excitable wedding planners, is defined by idiosyncrasy more than conformity: Swans waddle through the yard, and Annie, the bride, wears sneakers instead of heels. The guiding ethos of the remake, four decades after the original, is not keeping up with the Joneses so much as distinguishing from them.
What both movies’ visions have in common, however, is anxiety over an event—One Perfect Day, the journalist Rebecca Mead summed it up, with no paucity of irony—that seems to have adopted a mind of its own: Everyone involved wants to be practical, in terms of money, in terms of scope. But the wedding will not be denied. This is another thing Martha Stewart anticipated. Weddings acknowledges the necessity of a budget, for example—“the question of budget is an old-fashioned one: that money makes it easier to make free choices, but that money is not the arbiter”—and yet, in the end, downplays it. This is, after all, a once-in-a-lifetime event. While you can’t put a price on love, in another way, the modern wedding whispers, you very definitely can.
So while Weddings is in some ways an instruction manual, as so many of Stewart’s later guides would be, it is also a kind of declaration—about the moral value of wanting something, about the worth of aspiration itself. The book does not try to reflect the world as it is—the couples here, for the most part, are wealthy enough to throw Yacht Club weddings, and are, in general, varying shades of white—but exists instead in that diaphanous realm of aspiration and accommodated desire. It is a paean to the work that goes into weddings—Stewart herself was connected to many of the events highlighted in it because she had, indeed, catered them—that casts labor itself in the service of a broader vision. It is the Dream, here, that matters. It is the Dream, indeed, toward which all else will bend.
* * *
It is perhaps through such layered meaning-making that Martha Stewart Weddings, as Caitlin Flanagan wrote in a 2001 essay in The Atlantic, “helped to cement [Stewart’s] reputation as one of our most important cultural figures.” It is perhaps because of it, as well, that, in a market crowded with books and blogs and magazines and Pinterest boards, Weddings’s “pride of place in the wedding-wish-book canon,” Flanagan put it, “has been challenged only by the publication of a second volume, The Best of Martha Stewart Living: Weddings.” And it is certainly for that reason that the original book—coming as it did so soon after the 1981 wedding of Princess Diana and Prince Charles (and, months later, the wedding of Luke and Laura on General Hospital)—captivated the public, helping to fix in the American mind the notion of a high-stakes exhibition of pageantry and money and selfhood. Here comes the bride, who for a day will know what it is to be a celebrity: catered to, beloved, the star of the show. Here comes the woman who, for that One Perfect Day, will be, as Kleinfeld’s website sums it up, “the absolute, stunning, sparkly, and sexy center of attention.”
But with great Dreams, Kleinfeld knows, come great responsibilities. The brides of Say Yes to the Dress may function, collectively, as Campbellian heroines, embarking, with that initial visit to the bridal salon, on their sacred journeys toward self-expression. They may face opposition from an Overbearing Mother, or a Show-Stealing Bridesmaid, or an Eye-Rolling Groom, but their real foils, in the end, are themselves—their own ambivalence, their own lack of desire for the spotlight, their own imprecise answers to the question of how they want to look on her wedding days. Insufficient commitment to the journey: that is the thing that will not be entertained by the otherwise all-accommodating Kleinfeld consultants. Because, ultimately, the attendants here are proxies for the wedding industrial complex itself. They will entertain any Dreams their brides may have for their weddings—fanciful elopements, goth-themed dresses, underwear-revealing bodices, Wiccan ceremonies, polyamorous ceremonies, vows said while scuba-diving. What they will not entertain, however, is the absence of a Dream itself.
In this sense, the consultants are proxies, as well, for Martha Stewart. Stewart understood, long before some ingenious reality-show producers would understand the same, what weddings would become in an age of individualism and excess. She understood the theater that would accompany the nuptial event in an era that finds identity, as an ethos, driving so much in American life. Stewart looked at the direction of families. She looked at the direction of feminism. She looked at the state of American sexual mores and celebrity culture. She surveyed and scanned and then noticed something, glinting, in the distance. Martha Stewart peered out to the horizon line and saw, in that gauzy place where the sky meets the sea, a series of mermaid-cut dresses, encrusted with Swarovski crystals, on brides who were, at least for a day, living out their wildest dreams.
The most radical element of Luc Besson’s 1997 space opera The Fifth Element is not the absurdly opulent future-costumes designed by Jean Paul Gaultier. It isn’t the bizarre Southern twang of the Hitler haircut-sporting villain Zorg (Gary Oldman), nor is it Chris Tucker’s performance as an intergalactic sex symbol who hosts a radio show. It’s that Bruce Willis cries at the opera. In budget, in scale, and in casting, The Fifth Element feels like any other big Hollywood sci-fi movie, featuring popular English-speaking actors running around a high-concept world, complete with lavish sets and CGI effects. But not many blockbusters would let its male star weep at a musical performance.
That set piece comes in the middle of the film as Willis’s character, Korben Dallas, a gun-wielding space cowboy with spiked, peroxide-blonde hair, takes in a show by the blue alien singer Diva Plavalaguna (Maïwenn). Besson’s film has, up until now, been a relentless blitz of action, as Korben follows the mysterious Leeloo (Milla Jovovich) across the galaxy to help retrieve mystical stones that will help her save the world from a great, encroaching evil. But for a second, the movie grinds to a halt, letting Korben take in the extraterrestrial songstress’s solo with tears in his eyes.
Will 'Edge of Tomorrow' Join the 21st Century Sci-Fi Canon?
Diva Plavalaguna is one of The Fifth Element’s many MacGuffins—it turns out she has the stones in her possession, and she hands them over to Korben after a wild shootout in the venue. But the genius of her scene is that her voice prompts a genuine emotional change in the film’s maverick male protagonist, nudging him from being a hard-edged renegade into something much more openhearted. This internal shift is a bigger deal than any of The Fifth Element’s action sequences—a dramatic device that helps distinguish Besson from his genre-director peers, and that resurfaces in his new film Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets. Besson takes an all-American cowboy hero, a trope as old as the Flash Gordon sci-fi films he’s aping, and uses not violence, but art, to help teach Korben a larger lesson about the importance of other people in his life.
Valerian, opening in theaters this week, is already drawing the same kind of polarized reaction The Fifth Element got 20 years ago, with critics praising its visual boldness while expressing, at best, a little confusion about its dialogue and storytelling choices. Besson, the French director who pioneered the stylish cinema du look of France’s 1980s, likes to use grand imagery to present his often simplistic narratives. But beneath the surface, The Fifth Element is a highly underrated piece of subversive Hollywood cinema.
Stylishness aside, The Fifth Element does have a plot of sorts: Korben is on a quest to unite the four “elements” (fire, earth, water, and air) with a fifth, Leeloo—a humanoid woman possessed of an inherent goodness that she can use to fight an invading evil. But the film’s ultimate message is that the fifth element is really love: Near the end, it turns out that Korben’s declaration of his love for Leeloo, and hers for him, allows her to activate her celestial powers in the movie’s climax. This hopelessly sentimental reveal isn’t an empty one, though; these characters don’t just fall in love because that’s what happens at the end of movies. Their union is the culmination of the transformation distilled in that opera scene, where Korben realizes there’s more to life than pulling off the next mission.
The couple’s meet-cute at the beginning of The Fifth Element sees Leeloo crashing into Korben’s flying cab. When they first encounter each other, Korben is a familiar Han Solo type—a military washout and a habitual rule-breaker who’s so independent-minded that he lives in a cupboard-sized apartment. Leeloo, meanwhile, is an orange-haired, scantily clad space nymph. Korben’s initial interest in her seems to be sexual, and he plants a kiss on her just a few minutes after they meet. Leeloo responds by pointing a gun at his head and saying, in her alien language, “never without my permission.”
Besson doesn’t want Leeloo’s rebuke to be a tossed-off example of Korben’s roguish charm; instead, it’s the first step in a longer learning process for the hero. Throughout the film, Korben expresses regret over the unwanted kiss, and as Leeloo takes charge of their mission, Korben becomes little more than her hired gun. Leeloo constantly tells him to let her handle things, and with good reason—she can take out an entire room of bad guys with only her fists. Soon enough, Korben, whose shoot-first approach grows less useful as things progress, comes to see that there’s a greater beauty and meaning in the world.
How else to explain Besson’s insistence on Korben experiencing the opera performance by himself, sitting transfixed at Diva Plavalaguna’s solo while Leeloo fights alien villains? Or the fact that the final set piece is not an extravagant combat sequence, but a simple profession of love that Besson carefully builds to? At that pivotal point in the story, Leeloo is crestfallen—she says she’s witnessed so much violence during her quest that she’s worried humanity might not be worth saving. Korben’s evolution is crucial to winning her over, to proving that there’s still a chance to redeem mankind.
Besson’s sincerity might not have worked as well if it weren’t backed up with his similarly free-spirited design sensibilities. The Fifth Element might be less memorable if it hadn’t followed through on its operatic storytelling, but each frame of the film is a delight to look at, each set a dizzying wonder, each costume (down to Korben’s favorite skintight tank top) a daring fashion choice. The release of Valerian, another emotionally grounded genre work by Besson, is a reminder that the director’s 20-year-old sci-fi classic is worth a second look for much more than its pioneering visuals.
Here is a way to win the woman you’ve loved for eight years from afar: When you see her again, avoid speaking. Jump up and leave when she is in earshot. Do her small favors, especially ones that put you within touching distance—but never let her thank you, and be sure to avoid her gaze. Eavesdrop vigorously; should she say anything that suggests she returns your feelings, write her a letter and hurry out of the room. No, wait, come back! You need to make sure that she’s seen it, so point to the letter and stare at her earnestly, mumbling that you’ve forgotten your gloves. Are you cringing? Don’t worry about Captain Wentworth. Anne Elliot finds him persuasive.
And, I’ll be honest—from the moment I read Jane Austen’s Persuasion, I did too. I picked up my old copy earlier this month, revisiting my favorite of the novelist’s works for the bicentenary of her death, and was embarrassed to find the margins littered with hearts and exclamation points over its blushing, stumbling lovers. At the time, I was in my first year of college, struggling with the indignities of a crush and the terrible business of making myself likable to strangers, and I identified intensely with Austen’s acute observations of human discomfort. For all her cutting quips and criticism of drawing-room drama, Austen has a soft spot for the socially awkward, and—for this deeply awkward reader, at least—it’s part of what makes her novels so timelessly real.
Of course, the awkwardness isn’t always admirable: Austen’s best comedy comes from characters who excel at making things weird. A single chapter of Pride and Prejudice finds Mary Bennet flaunting her accomplishments with no sense of their mediocrity, Mr. Collins breaching all bounds of etiquette to flatter Mr. Darcy, and Mrs. Bennet mortifying her daughters with loud talk of their marriage prospects—all of them quite oblivious to the social rules they break. They get mocked by the narrator in free indirect discourse and by other characters to their faces, and move the plot forward (think Lady Catherine confronting Elizabeth) by sheer force of discomfort—all of which would be mortifying to the consciously self-conscious reader except for the fact that their worst sin, in Austen’s satire, is their lack of self-awareness. If you, like me, spend a lot of time living in fear of being a Mr. Collins, it is probably safe to say that you aren’t one.
Yet if the bumbling fools of Austen’s novels share a lack of social grace, her most insidious villains arguably have an excess of it. The caddish George Wickham, whose “truthful” (read: handsome) looks charm Lizzy Bennet into believing his lies and her sister Lydia into running away with him, has to his credit “no more substantial good than the general approbation of the neighborhood, and the regard which his social powers had gained him in the [officers’] mess.” Ditto to Willoughby, Marianne Dashwood’s dashing first love in Sense and Sensibility, whose “lively spirits, and open, affectionate manners” conceal selfishness made more harmful by lack of self-control. It’s as if they’ve spent all their energy on charm, leaving nothing to support the flimsy morals underneath.
The list goes on: In Mansfield Park, Henry Crawford begins an ultimately disastrous flirtation with the Bertram sisters with the careless yet calculated “object … of making them like him”; when he actually does profess his love for Fanny Price, she rejects him, unable to believe that he means it. And in Persuasion, Anne is justified in distrusting her cousin William’s polished manners when old letters reveal he’s a cynical climber with little respect for her family: “She felt that she could so much more depend on the sincerity of those who sometimes looked or said a careless or hasty thing, than of those whose presence of mind never varied, whose tongue never slipped.” Too much social skill is suspect—it makes it all too easy to hide an agenda. Awkwardness, on the other hand, is impossible to fake.
And this is where Austen’s redemption of gawkiness comes in—of characters who struggle to perform in front of others. Of Edward Ferrars (brought to stammering life by Hugh Grant in Ang Lee’s 1995 adaptation of Sense and Sensibility), who “was too diffident to do justice to himself; but when his natural shyness was overcome … gave every indication of an open, affectionate heart.” Of Colonel Brandon, whom Willoughby mocks for his reserve, and whose eventual triumph with Marianne constitutes the original revenge of the nerds. Of Georgiana Darcy, whose display of “all that embarrassment which, though proceeding from shyness and the fear of doing wrong, would easily give to those who felt themselves inferior the belief of her being proud and reserved” parallels—and hints at an explanation for—her proud older brother’s poor reception in the Bennets’ world. If Mr. Wickham has nothing to recommend him but his charm, Mr. Darcy is the exact opposite: a man with plenty of integrity who can’t seem to make anyone like him.
Indeed, Mr. Darcy explains to Elizabeth, he is “ill qualified to recommend myself to strangers,” and his behavior toward her would seem to back that up: After slighting her on their first meeting, he attempts to get to know her by looming at the fringes of her conversations with others (he soon gets caught). To prepare for his fateful declaration-of-love-cum-barrage-of-insults, he confuses her and her friends by sitting silently across from her for extended periods,  looking at her “a great deal.”
The first time I read Pride and Prejudice, I was crestfallen to discover that my mother’s ultimate romantic hero was a stiff and sullen bore. It took further readings, and multiple tongue-tying crushes of my own, to realize that Darcy’s silence was a sign of his sincerity. “You might have talked to me more when you came to dinner,” Elizabeth complains as they rehash their courtship—but she can’t reproach him when he replies, “A man who had felt less, might.” On the contrary, she can relate: Though she’s normally more than capable of verbally sparring with Darcy, when he finally tells her that he still loves her, she’s too embarrassed to speak.
Or take Persuasion. Captain Wentworth, just returned from glorious exploits in the Navy, plays the gallant flirt to everyone but Anne, who broke his heart years before and has regretted it ever since. Austen dwells on the minutiae of his behavior, which is admittedly confusing: He ignores her, and then, when they do speak, punctuates it with blushes and starts. He stares long and hard enough to give even Darcy a run for his money, and at one point performs the timeless maneuver of “walk[ing] to the fireplace … for the sake of walking away from it … and taking a station, with less bare-faced design, by Anne.” In other words, he’s obvious. He’s messily, painfully vulnerable, completely in Anne’s power—and his awkwardness lets her know it.
Which is important: Anne is awkward herself, barely able to speak in his presence. But she’s relieved and delighted to see him “obviously struck and confused by the sight of her … not comfortable, not easy, not able to feign that he was.” She reads “sentences begun which he could not quite finish—his half averted eyes, his more than half expressive glance” as evidence that he must love her. And just as Lizzy forces herself to confess her own feelings and rescue Darcy from “the more than common awkwardness and anxiety” of his proposal, Anne, put down and passed over again and again by her relatives, finds courage and confidence in her lover’s embarrassment.
Awkwardness, then, is an equalizer. It creates occasions for the shy to rise to, and pulls the socially powerful—men, and heroes, and those with ten thousand a year—down to the simple, raw, relatable level of their unmasked hopes and fears. In the push-pull of challenge and respect that makes Austen’s romances feel so modern, it’s the place where lovers let slip their vulnerabilities and accept each other—in the classic Austen-adjacent phrase—just as they are.
I could make a feminist case for awkwardness and say that the men’s failure to be smooth helps give Austen’s women power. I could say it fills a social gap by telegraphing the feelings people can’t put into words. Or I could say awkwardness is timeless and human and universal (and I’d mean it). But at the most honest, embarrassing level, this was the hope Persuasion gave me—that even I, misfit and gawky, might yet leave the right person lost for words.
Every year, I try to read a book by an author who was my age when the book was published. This year, that book was Sense and Sensibility. It’s not a perfect match: Jane Austen had not yet turned 36 (my age) when it was published in 1811. But given the occasion—this month marks the 200th anniversary of her death—I figured I’d cheat the rules this once.
It turned out to be an appropriate choice. A principal trait of Colonel Brandon, one of the book’s main characters, is that he’s also viewing his 35th birthday in the rearview mirror, and the book contains no end of commentary about it. We’re introduced to Colonel Brandon through the perspective of Austen’s young heroine, Marianne Dashwood, and the character’s younger sister Margaret: “He was silent and grave. His appearance however was not unpleasing, in spite of his being in the opinion of Marianne and Margaret an absolute old bachelor, for he was on the wrong side of five-and-thirty.”
The book is laced with wry little barbs about Brandon’s age, typically from Marianne’s point of view, written with tongue firmly in cheek: “[Marianne] was reasonable enough to allow that a man of five-and-thirty might well have outlived all acuteness of feeling and every exquisite power of enjoyment. She was perfectly disposed to make every allowance for the colonel’s advanced state of life which humanity required.”
The character of Marianne becomes a vehicle for comically wrongheaded ideas about when, exactly, one is required to give up hope for a fulfilling life. At the wise old age of 17, Marianne reconsiders “the desperation which had seized her at sixteen-and-a-half, of ever seeing a man who could satisfy her ideas of perfection.” But at 35, Brandon, in Marianne’s eyes, is well into his declining years. “If he were ever animated enough to be in love,” Marianne muses, he “must have long outlived every sensation of the kind.” She pities the aged colonel enough to reprove the meddling Mrs. Jennings for poking fun at him:
“When is a man to be safe from such wit, if age and infirmity will not protect him?”
“Infirmity!” said Elinor, “do you call Colonel Brandon infirm? I can easily suppose that his age may appear much greater to you than to my mother; but you can hardly deceive yourself as to his having the use of his limbs!”
“Did you not hear him complain of the rheumatism? and is not that the commonest infirmity of declining life?”
Marianne spends much of the book believing that the lives of the older people around her are frozen in place, their circumstances set sometime in their youth. Because, as several characters intimate, little but death can change a person’s marital circumstances after a wedding, and none of the main characters of the novel are newlyweds, the years after marriage come to seem to Marianne like a sort of afterlife, and spinsterdom or bachelorhood a sort of purgatory. Children may be born, allowing for more vicarious thrills after the marriage vows are spoken, she suggests, but one ceases to mark milestones of one’s own.
But the events of the book disabuse Marianne of this way of thinking. She finds Colonel Brandon, to her surprise, fully “animated enough to be in love,” and comes to perceive marriage not as the end of a life, but as the beginning of one, with new attachments, new duties, and a new home. An even deeper transformation in the character emerges by the novel’s end: Marianne, who has spent the entire book fixated on finding a husband, utters her most heartfelt profession of love late in the novel, not to any man, but to her sister Elinor. While a concise account of Marianne’s marriage passes quickly, the novel dwells in its closing lines on the continued comity of the two sisters, and the lives they forge within sight of one another’s houses. In many ways, Sense and Sensibility isn’t the story of two women who find husbands—it’s the story of two sisters who discover one another.
It’s perilous to read Austen’s biography into the lives of her characters, yet it’s impossible to avoid the resonances. When she first drafted the text that would become Sense and Sensibility, Austen was a late teenager, around the age of her elder heroine, Elinor. But by the time the book was being readied for publication, Austen was almost exactly the age of Colonel Brandon. (And both were about the same age, I should add, as Emma Thompson when she starred in Sense and Sensibility as Elinor, performing a screenplay that Thompson herself wrote and won an Oscar for.)
We don’t know exactly how the 30-something Jane Austen might have revised the writing of the teenage Jane Austen, but we do know that her own life was an effective rebuttal to the philosophy of the teenage Marianne Dashwood. Sense and Sensibility’s printing marked the beginning of Austen’s life as a published novelist. The extraordinary body of work that has inspired Austen’s readers over these past two centuries entered the public record in those six brief years that she lived “on the wrong side of five and thirty.” And like Elinor and Marianne, the relationship at the center of Austen’s life was the one she had with her sister Cassandra, her closest friend, whose correspondence with her is the window through which we comprehend the author.
I wonder whether Austen, like Colonel Brandon, experienced her mid-30s as a new beginning. I wonder if, upon re-reading her early drafts of the book that would become Sense and Sensibility, she thought about how her younger self imagined that age, and smiled at the bounty ahead of her. Above all, I wonder what she might have illuminated for us all—about love, about kinship, about growing older—if only we’d had more time with her.
The colorful, dreamlike imagery of Ava DuVernay’s upcoming adaptation of A Wrinkle in Time was the highlight of this year’s D23 conference, a semi-annual celebration of Disney that included a look at the studio’s upcoming film slate. The Wrinkle trailer was a visual feast, light on plot and heavy on shots of Oprah Winfrey’s outrageously splendid wig, Chris Pine trapped in a surreal orange prison, and some sort of suburban nightmare-verse populated by children bouncing balls in eerie unison.
DuVernay has not made a narrative film since her acclaimed 2014 Martin Luther King Jr. biopic Selma. A Wrinkle in Time, due for release in March 2018, seems like an exciting and worthy follow-up, and is the first movie with a $100 million budget to be directed by a woman of color. But it was also a rare standout in a Disney lineup littered with remakes and sequels, a roster that leans heavily on its “existing intellectual property” (Star Wars, Marvel Comics, and Disney animated classics). Amid all those titles, A Wrinkle in Time looks like an original, even though it’s based on a well-known book. But Disney’s sequel-heavy approach, depressing as it might sound, is the most successful in Hollywood right now.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem
Disney’s strategy for the coming years was crystalized with a giant backdrop of titles guiding the company’s release schedule through 2019. There are three Star Wars movies (Episodes 8 and 9, plus a Han Solo film); six Marvel movies (Thor: Ragnarok, Black Panther, Captain Marvel, an Ant-Man sequel, and two Avengers entries); five sequels (to Mary Poppins, Toy Story, The Incredibles, Wreck-It Ralph, and Frozen); and three remakes of beloved films (Dumbo, The Lion King, and Mulan). There’s just one original movie on deck, Pixar’s Coco, with two others based on less oversaturated works (A Wrinkle in Time and a new Nutcracker film).
For decades, Disney prioritized new stories over sequels (which it once eschewed, sending all animated sequels straight to video), but it’s hard to argue with high grosses—consider Marvel’s long-running success and the box-office appeal of follow-ups like Finding Dory. In a movie industry roiled by declining ticket sales, increased competition from television, and volatile international markets, Disney has largely dodged expensive catastrophes that have befallen other studios trying to set up similar franchises that can spawn new entries for years. That’s largely thanks to effective management that has avoided oversaturation of their biggest brands, meaning a new Star Wars movie or Pixar animated feature still feels like an event.
Two weeks ago, I wrote about some of these relative flops—Paramount’s fifth Transformers film, Universal’s The Mummy, and even Disney’s fifth Pirates movie—which are still making hundreds of millions of dollars around the world but show steep declines in audience interest relative to their previous entries. So much of this “bad-movie problem,” though, is rooted in other studios’ desire to mimic the clockwork structure of Disney’s many franchises. Even if there are production difficulties (like on the Han Solo project, where the original directors were fired, or Ant-Man, where Edgar Wright quit at the last minute), the films come out on schedule and perform consistently. So far, there’s little evidence of waning excitement for the studio’s heaviest-hitting brands, but the clear exhaustion around Pirates is an indication that even the big-name Disney films can lose their luster.  

Even the largest and most successful studio has to take risks, and Disney has taken some. A Wrinkle in Time cost five times more to make than DuVernay’s last film, and she’s never worked in the fantasy genre before, but it looks like her hiring has paid off. Meanwhile, Pixar may have two sequels in the pipeline, but original productions (Coco and a planned “suburban fantasy” adventure set for 2020 or 2021) have always been what separates the animated brand from its competitors. And just last year, Disney indulged original, mid-budget films like The Finest Hours, The Light Between Oceans, and Queen of Katwe—projects that may not be box-office guarantees but that let Disney develop less-proven directors and diversify its lineup of stars—but they don’t appear to be part of the studio’s plans for the future.
That’s because the focus on epic productions has proven more consistent in recent years—perhaps to the detriment of the film industry at large. It’s possible that every studio will eventually defer to the Disney model, where producers are key and directors are only brought in to modulate their voice to larger franchise concerns. Warner Bros.’ new president Toby Emmerich is reportedly planning on scaling back involvement with “auteur” directors who demand final cut on their projects, according to a recent Hollywood Reporter feature. With the exception of Clint Eastwood and Christopher Nolan, the studio is looking to stop handing over big budgets to major directors—which means a movie like Mad Max: Fury Road, a Warners production that won six Oscars in 2016, would never happen.
Tellingly, at Disney, producers John Lasseter (of Pixar), Kevin Feige (of Marvel), and Kathleen Kennedy (of Star Wars and Lucasfilm) are the studio’s three most important artists, and of them, only Lasseter has ever directed a film. The recent kerfuffle over the Han Solo movie was the best evidence yet for Disney’s insistence on adherence to a wider brand, as the celebrated directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller (who made 21 Jump Street and The Lego Movie, among others) were dismissed over “deep fundamental philosophical differences” in filmmaking that reportedly centered on their comedic, improvisational tone. Ron Howard, a steady studio hand if there ever was one, was brought in to finish the movie and supervise what could be lengthy reshoots.
A Wrinkle in Time is the kind of project Disney would do well to embrace a little more. It’s still reliant on a brand name and big, expensive-looking visuals, but it’s not quite as rigidly tied to an overarching franchise that might fail to attract more original filmmakers like DuVernay. Disney’s box-office totals show no sign of slowing down (it has made five of the 10 most successful movies of all time in just the last five years), but eventually, it will run out of classics to remake, just as eventually, even the most ironclad cinematic universes will run their course. Disney studio has to think about the future, too—and talented directors with a distinctive style and vision should be part of that plan.
R. Kelly holds a “cult”-like grip on at least six women living in his homes in Chicago and the Atlanta suburbs, fitting with a long-alleged pattern of sexual predation, according to a report at BuzzFeed. The journalist Jim DeRogatis quotes three former members of the R&B singer’s inner circle as well as the parents of two women currently said to be under his sway. On and off the record, they told him that Kelly “controls every aspect of [the women’s] lives: dictating what they eat, how they dress, when they bathe, when they sleep, and how they engage in sexual encounters that he records.” These sources describe instances of physical violence and other punishments toward the women for interacting with men, making unapproved contact with their families, or otherwise breaking one of Kelly’s “rules.” It is a harrowing and infuriating story, worth reading in full.
The pattern that emerges from DeRogatis’s reporting is one of teenage girls meeting Kelly at his concerts under parental supervision with the belief that he wanted to help with their nascent music careers. He then, allegedly, kept in touch through means that circumvented the mothers and fathers: secret phone calls and rendezvous plans. After reaching the age of consent, according to the BuzzFeed report, the women move into his homes, where they begin to lose contact with the outside world; because they are consenting adults, little legal action can be taken (though Kelly has settled out of court a number of times when accused of misconduct). Kelly’s lawyer says that DeRogatis’s sources are simply “defaming a great artist.”
R. Kelly and the Year of Celebrity Semi-Reckonings
Kelly already has infamous associations with unethical sexual practices. He was acquitted in 2008 after a protracted criminal case in which he was accused of urinating on a 13-year-old girl in a video tape, and his illegal 1994 marriage to the then-15-year-old singer Aaliyah is well known. Journalists, primary among them DeRogatis, have reported on other allegations against him over the years.
Why, then, would any parent let their daughter near him? The answer presented in DeRogatis’s piece offers a chilling look at the way that fame and the legal system can create a cloak of impunity for men who use their influence to untoward personal ends. A parent might not let their daughter near the guy down the street who’d been repeatedly accused—even if not convicted—of sex crimes. But ongoing superstar status, seemingly, acts as its own kind of character witness.
It was “supposed to be a music relationship,” Theresa, the mother of a Florida singer who was 17 years old when she first met Kelly, told DeRogatis. “My thing was I trusted. I have never been in the music industry before, ever,” she said. “He is a lyrical genius—he is R. Kelly! And the fact is he went to court, he was never found guilty—he was acquitted—and we were led to believe there was no truth in it.”
One day, DeRogatis reports, Theresa’s daughter went to meet Kelly at his hotel instead of coming home from school. After that incident, the girl was told she could only see Kelly with her parents around. “We needed to make sure it was about music, because he was going to mentor her,” Theresa said. “And then from there he wanted her to travel with him so she could see how the music game really was. ... We thought it could be an opportunity, and that she was going to be with a guardian—a female guardian that would keep an eye on her.”
Yet according to the report, the relationship became sexual, and the Florida singer moved in with Kelly. She has mostly ceased contact with her family.
Another mother, identified as J., tells a similar story about her and her then-19-year-old daughter meeting Kelly backstage in 2015. “We went back to talk about the music,” she said. “He listened to her CD. He was going to help her with her CD, and I was really impressed with him at first, because I have always been an R. Kelly fan.” DeRogatis writes:
J. said she’d heard about past sexual misconduct accusations against Kelly, but wasn’t overly worried. She is a fiercely devoted stage mom—she and her husband of 22 years, Tim, a car dealer, had moved from Memphis to Atlanta to help their eldest child’s career—and was confident she could protect her daughter.
It didn’t turn out that way. Phone recordings given to DeRogatis reveal the young singer trying to steer Kelly into conversations about creating music and Kelly responding by saying “I’m more interested in developing you. Songs are not an issue. We can always do a hit song.” He also repeatedly asked her “to get in the habit of telling me what color panties you got on every day.” The relationship escalated in that manner. DeRogatis reports that J. last saw her daughter on December 1, 2016.
Some contours of this saga are familiar in the world of celebrity. Bill Cosby’s recent courtroom saga—ending in mistrial—resurfaced a pattern in which the comedian was alleged to have offered career mentorship to women only to take advantage of them sexually. One woman, Heidi Thomas, told New York Magazine that Cosby drugged her when they were reading lines for a scene in which she played a character drinking a glass of wine. And as with Kelly, Cosby long maintained his reputation despite allegations of impropriety and sexual assault thanks to fame itself. Said accuser Barbara Bowman, “I could have walked down any street of Manhattan at any time and said, ‘I’m being raped and drugged by Bill Cosby,’ but who the hell would have believed me? Nobody, nobody.” Additionally, as with Kelly, after numerous secret settlements and explosive journalistic reports, Cosby remains innocent in the eyes of the law.
As DeRogatis notes, though, the Kelly situation is remarkable in its own right. Though abusive mentorship relationships are infamously common in the music world, Kelly’s treatment of these women is alleged to be “far beyond that of the groupie culture.” The twist of these accusations is in the immunity that accompanies fame apparently being used to create a master/thrall dynamic more reminiscent of sexual servitude or cults. “It was as if she was brainwashed. [She] looked like a prisoner—it was horrible,” J. said of the last time she saw her daughter. “I hugged her and hugged her. But she just kept saying she’s in love and [Kelly] is the one who cares for her. I don’t know what to do. I hope that if I get her back, I can get her treatment for victims of cults. They can reprogram her. But I wish I could have stopped it from happening.”
Early last fall, the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington, D.C., hosted an exhibition: Will & Jane: Shakespeare, Austen, and the Cult of Celebrity. The show, meant to examine the “literary afterlives” of the iconic authors, featured a series of objects that had been transformed, through the physics of fame, into bookish relics: There was a framed lock of Austen’s hair. And a tin of cheekily Jane-themed bandages. And a bundle of sticks—yes, sticks—that were, the curators noted, “presumed to be from a chair and other objects” that had been gathered from Shakespeare’s birthplace. There were many, many more. The most popular of all the items, however—judging, at least, by the Instagrams that arose from the exhibition—was a large tunic, ruffled of collar and wrinkled of texture, fleshed out via a mannequined torso and displayed within a brightly lit, glass-enclosed case. Above it hung a placard that explained both extremely little and also everything important about the garment in question. The case contained, the sign announced, in all caps, “THE SHIRT.”
If you are a Jane Austen fan of relatively recent vintage, there’s a good chance that you’ll need no more detail than that. The voluminous tunic was, after all, the one Colin Firth had worn during the scene—yep, that scene—in the BBC’s 1995 adaptation of Pride and Prejudice, the iconic miniseries that, along with English teachers and Amy Heckerling and the author’s own genius, helped to inspire the latest generation of Austen acolytes to have come in the nearly 200 years since her death. In the scene, Firth, as Fitzwilliam Darcy, returns to Pemberley, hot and sweaty from the long horseback ride home. He pauses at a lake on his estate’s sprawling property. He strips away his overcoat. He contemplates the water before him, passionate, preoccupied. And then, with music crescendoing, he dives in—clad in nothing, at this point, but his breeches and THE SHIRT.
The scene, as a piece of filmic fanfic, has over the years drawn the ire of many an Austen scholar. Not just for the pesky detail that it didn’t take place in the book, and in that sense violates the crystalline precision that defines so much of Austen’s storytelling, but also—and more so—because of its wet-T-shirt aesthetic: Diving Darcy, the criticism goes, celebrates Pride and Prejudice less for its adjacency to Romanticism, the period, and more for its adjacency to romance, the genre. Here was one of the greatest novels ever written in English, implicatively categorized with the gaudy trade paperbacks on sale at your local ShopRite. With one scene, per the objections, Austen was removed from the company of Byron and Keats and Fielding and the other (male) giants of her era and tethered, instead, to a genre that is, in stereotype if not in practice, quintessentially feminine. Here was one of her fecund mind’s most enduring creations, Fitzwilliam Darcy, proud and prejudiced and Fabio-ed.
But that’s the pessimistic reading. A more optimistic one—and, indeed, perhaps, a more realistic one—is that the added scene is in fact a perfectly fitting tribute to Pride and Prejudice and its author. Firth’s broody dive and pec-clinging shirt, after all, evoke explicitly what the book, with its many references to flushed faces and flirty dancing and wantonly muddied skirts, could only imply. The screen adaptation took a novel that suggests sex in only the most allusive and elusive of ways and put that erotic energy on unapologetic display. It presented Darcy not just as a man of wealth (Ten thousand a year! Oh, Lord!) and thus as a figure with a dully practical value to the single women in his path, but also as something both simpler and more radical: a sex object. It transformed Darcy, master of Pemberley, into a pond-soaked pheromone. And, even more importantly: It framed Elizabeth Bennet, bright of eye and flushed of face, as the witness to the transformation.
The female gaze, as it were, remains, after all this time, fairly innovative as a concept in literary culture. Cultural products of the current moment—Broad City, Trainwreck, Bridesmaids, the Mikes both Magic and Magic XXL, Fleabag, Insecure, I Love Dick, so many more—are still, 200 years after Austen put her sharp quill to its paper, experimenting with it and feeling it out. But while Austen may be, today, most readily associated with drawing rooms and dainty dances, she was also an impressively early champion of that quintessentially feminist perspective. She looked at men, and saw not just marriage and family and financial security, but also, simply, sex.
The BBC series, as my colleague Sophie Gilbert has pointed out, understood that. (Its director, Andrew Davies: “This isn’t just a social comedy—it’s about desire and young people and their hormones.”) By turning Darcy into a sex object, the series not only captured something essential about Pride and Prejudice, as literature; it also highlighted the extent to which the novel, written in the late 18th century and published in the early 19th, anticipated the pop culture of the 21st. It placed women—their perspectives, their concerns, their humor, their desires, their rich inner lives—at the center of the story. It took for granted a kind of radical mutuality: It assumed a world in which women are meant not merely to be looked upon, but also to do the looking.
* * *
Pride and Prejudice, in particular, is a novel of surveillance. In it, characters—through windows, across the tiny chasm of an open door, through letters and gossip and gradual revelations—watch each other, reflexively and constantly. But Hertfordshire is no Panopticon: It is the women, here, who do the bulk of the watching. And it is the men, here, who are generally the objects of their lookings: They are mysteries to be solved, puzzles whose pictures reveal themselves, with patience and time, piece by piece. Darcy is rich, and Darcy is handsome, and Darcy is terrible, and Darcy perhaps is more complicated than he first seemed, and Darcy is kind, and Darcy is a savior, and Darcy is whoa omg kind of amazing, and the plot moves to reveal each tantalizingly curved and occasionally interlocking piece until Lizzy, and thus the reader, is finally able to create a satisfying picture.
The book’s narrator may be third-person, and omniscient, in the way of so many novels that preceded and followed Austen’s. And yet—this was, of course, Austen’s ultimate genius—the perspective of the book is, for the most part, Lizzy’s. She is the one, through most of the novel’s free indirect discourse, whose perspective is most thoroughly summoned and celebrated. She is the mystery-solver. The story is hers. The upshot of Pride and Prejudice is what kind of life, through the choices she makes, Lizzy will have—financial, romantic, social, sexual. She is the subject; Darcy is the object. And when he does assert himself, as the scholar Robert P. Irvine observed, the master of Pemberley displays above all the “absolute and unconditioned male need for a woman.”
That female-first dynamic is evident, in varying degrees, across Austen’s novels. In Sense and Sensibility, John Willoughby (d)evolves from a romantic hero to a cypher to, finally, a man who, in circumstance, very much resembles a woman: He is forced to marry not for love, but for financial security. Colonel Brandon, though older and wealthier than Marianne Dashwood, wins her over by slowly subjecting himself to her whims, making himself passively available until she decides that she prefers him. While men adorn the novel’s peripheries, Emma announces the narrative centrality of its protagonist right in its title.
And: When men violate that cosmic arrangement—when they try to insert their own perspectives into Austen’s narratives—they are generally belittled for it. Darcy’s initial, and visual, impression of Elizabeth, after all—his durably cutting assessment that she is not handsome enough to tempt me—is the error that the “pride” and the “prejudice” most explicitly refer to. (Austen’s second published novel was, after all, initially titled First Impressions.) In Persuasion, Sir Walter Elliot makes a similarly superficial assessment of women:
The worst of Bath was the number of its plain women. He did not mean to say that there were no pretty women, but the number of the plain was out of all proportion. He had frequently observed, as he walked, that one handsome face would be followed by thirty, or five-and-thirty frights; and once, as he had stood in a shop on Bond Street, he had counted eighty-seven women go by, one after another, without there being a tolerable face among them.
Here, in other words, is a nearly textbook example of the male gaze, presented two centuries before that term would have a name—and here, too, is that perspective thoroughly mocked. And here is Austen using her sharpest weapon, the irony honed by her free indirect style, to ensure that the mocking of Sir Walter will be enacted by Sir Walter himself.
* * *
Austen, as a person as well as a writer, seems to have entertained little patience with the Elliotesque of her world: with men who looked at women but refused, fully, to see them. The author’s letters (those, at least, that survive today) suggest that she was, in the manner of Lizzy Bennet, Emma Woodhouse, Marianne Dashwood, Catherine Morland, and so many of her heroines, a romantic. (Austen had her own Willoughby, it seems—Thomas Lefroy, an Irish politician, whose family disapproved of the match—and also, perhaps, her own Collins: Harris Bigg-Wither, a man of wealth and education whose proposal of marriage she accepted in December of 1802 and then, the next day, refused.) The scholar Douglas Bush has argued that Austen “had a very high ideal of the love that should unite a husband and wife,” and she gives him good evidence for the assertion: “Anything is to be preferred or endured,” the author put it in a letter to a niece, “rather than marrying without Affection.”
The advice was in its own way a progressive stance. Marriage for love, after all, the historian Stephanie Coontz argues, did not become widespread as a concept in Western Europe until the 16th and 17th centuries—which is to say, just before Austen was born. “In early modern Europe,” Coontz writes, “most people believed that love developed after marriage. Moralists of the 16th and 17th centuries argued that if a husband and wife each had a good character, they would probably come to love each other.”
Austen was a moralist, certainly, but of a different strain. She believed, it seems, in romantic love as a matter of micropolitics: an assurance not necessarily of full equality between men and women, within the heteronormative marriages that were the only arrangement available at the time, but as a promise of independence even within marriage’s confines. In her novels, Affection is a proxy for freedom—and, thus, as something that should present itself, in the modern way, long before the vicar has been summoned and the vows have been made.
Austen seems to have respectfully disagreed, in other words, with Charlotte Lucas, who tells Lizzy in Pride and Prejudice, “Happiness in marriage is entirely a matter of chance.” Charlotte, as a character, perfectly channels Coontz’s old-school moralists: “It is better,” she figures, “to know as little as possible of the defects of the person with whom you are to pass your life.” Charlotte, we assume—we hope—is content with the choices she makes in the book: Mr. Collins, Rosings Park, financial security. And yet, filtered through the moral judgment of Miss Elizabeth Bennet and, indeed, Miss Jane Austen, her practical observations produce some of the most cutting lines in a novel full of them. What Charlotte has sacrificed, after all, in Pride and Prejudice’s vision, is the freedom that love marriage, at its best, affords: mutual respect. The assurance that a wife will be not only looked upon—Mr. Collins is a consummate looker—but, also, seen. Charlotte has married, and this is the tragedy of it, without Affection.
And while, as a word, “Affection” today tends to suggest a kind of Love-Lite—evoking the sort of warm feeling that fails to merit the more urgent language of passion or romance—in Austen’s time, it was, as a concept, much more powerful. In a medical textbook published in 1815, right after Austen had published Pride and Prejudice, the German physician Johann Spurzheim noted that “different degrees of the agreeable affections are called pleasure, joy, and ecstasy.”
So “Affection,” as Austen applies it to marriage, suggests the things many of our current notions of romance do: the push and pull between two people, a situation in which both have a say, a relationship in which power is distributed (relatively) equally. Coontz’s early modern model of marriage may have appreciated that kind of mutuality—a couple would probably come to love each other—but it also, on the whole, minimized it. It beheld marriage primarily as an economic and social social institution. It posited unions of breadwinning and helpmeeting. It cared very little, in the end, about Affection.
That Austen cared, on the contrary, so very much about it is in part what made her so radical—and what, today, helps to keep her so relevant. It is on the one hand what gives Austen’s novels their core, unifying tension—marriage as passion, marriage as pragmatism—and it’s why so many of her heroines weigh, as Marianne Dashwood frames it in Ang Lee’s Sense and Sensibility, the demands of the pocketbook against the demands of the heart.
It is also, however, what links Pride and Prejudice to Bridesmaids, and Emma to I Love Dick. In Austen’s work, romantic union is seen not as the pragmatic abnegation of the self, but rather as the hopeful realization of it. Again and again, after all, in her stories, women gaze upon men and decide for themselves whether or not the men are worth having. In Sense and Sensibility, Elinor Dashwood finally puts the puzzle of Willoughby together—and, as the picture comes into focus, realizes that “the worst and most irremediable of all evils” is “a connection, for life, with an unprincipled man.” In Pride and Prejudice, after Darcy proposes, clearly anticipating swoonful gratitude on the part of his proposee, Elizabeth retorts:
From the very beginning—from the first moment I may almost say—of my acquaintance with you, your manners, impressing me with the fullest belief of your arrogance, your conceit, and your selfish disdain of the feelings of others, were such as to form that groundwork of disapprobation. … I had not known you a month before I felt that you were the last man in the world whom I could ever be prevailed on to marry.
The nouns are harsh; it’s the verb, though—be prevailed on—that’s key. Even in its superficial passivity, it understands that Lizzy, at least at this moment, is the one with the power. Charlotte Bronte once scoffed of Austen that “the Passions are perfectly unknown to her”; this was, it seems, a misreading. Austen was acutely aware not merely of such Passions, but also, indeed, of the freedoms they could offer. Within books that are sometimes dismissed as a mere comedies of manners, women, via the mechanics of those Passions, exercise soft, yet in many ways complete, power. In 1894, the celebrated artist Hugh Thomson released his newly illustrated edition of Pride and Prejudice; the ornate book’s cover featured, in place of its human characters, a single peacock—preening on a pedestal and showered, revealingly, in his own flowery feathers.
* * *
That sense of peacocking—the notion of men performing for and fighting for the women—has come to permeate the latest adaptations of Austen’s work. In Love & Friendship, Whit Stillman’s 2016 adaptation of Lady Susan, Lord Manwaring, whose flirtation with Susan got her expelled from his estate, is cheekily glossed as “a divinely attractive man.” Susan refers to James Martin, a suitor who rivals Pride and Prejudice’s Mr. Collins in his simpering insipidity, as “vastly rich, rather simple”; her friend Alicia wryly replies that such a combination is “ideal.” Susan jokes to Alicia about having threatened to whip a man who has had the audacity to approach her uninvited. But she knows the man, she hastens to add, very well: “I would never speak to a stranger like that.” And then Susan, that timeless anti-heroine, utters a line that is tantalizingly tangled with Austen’s trademark irony: “Isn’t it rather clear,” she asks, “that it is we, women of decision, who hold the trumps?”
It is not, of course. It is not now; it was not, certainly, when Austen was doing her writing. Austen’s novels, though most scholars classify them—and celebrate them—as early examples of literary realism, are also, in the most immediate sense, works of fantasy. They imagine a social cosmology in which women have some level of power in their relationships and, thus, in their lives. They don’t dare imagine a world in which women are equal to men—Austen was a genius, but one caught, like everyone else, within her time—and yet they do assume a situation in which relationships themselves are, at their best, built on foundations of mutual respect, and mutual participation, and mutual love. Their radicalism about romance is by turns unassuming and insistent: It takes for granted the notion that, to the extent that a marriage is a microcosm of a society at large, some kind of parity is possible. With that, Austen gives her women the tiniest of gifts, and yet one of the grandest there is: She allows them to see. She allows them to decide. She allows them to be the stars of their own stories.
Little surprise, then, that, 200 years later, Austen has only expanded in relevance and love. And little surprise, too, that her great influence has widened far beyond the literary, fit for a moment that is newly celebrating the political power of the gaze. As Gilbert noted, the BBC’s (subtly) sexed-up take on Pride and Prejudice, that early 19th-century rom-com, launched a relatively new cottage industry: Jane Austen erotica. And, with it, Austen-themed lady-looking. The internet now hosts sites like steamydarcy.com. And stories like “A Definitive Ranking of Jane Austen’s Male Hotties” and “The Official Ranking of Jane Austen’s 14 Leading Men, From Darcy to Mr. Collins.” There’s the fan fiction and the board games and Jane Austen’s Guide to Dating. And there was also, in 2013, the fiberglass sculpture of Fitzwilliam Darcy that found its home in a lake in the middle of London’s Hyde Park. For several glorious months, the 12-foot-tall torso of Austen’s romantic hero burst out of the water, clenched of fist and Firthian of face, with an expression frozen in permanent longing. He was thinking of Lizzy, probably. And he was definitely clad in THE SHIRT.
It seems almost bizarre to say that one of the greatest tennis players of all time is proving that he is here to stay. But, a little over a year after Roger Federer’s painful, injury-plagued semi-final loss at Wimbledon to Milos Raonic had many claiming the end of a career, the Swiss legend continued his remarkable return to form this year on Sunday, as he clinched a record eighth Wimbledon title. The 35-year-old cruised past a sluggish Marin Čilić in straight sets, 6-3, 6-1, 6-4, in just over an hour and a half. His emphatic victory over the towering Croat seemed almost inevitable, as he came into the match playing some of his finest tennis in years—he hadn’t dropped a single set en route to the final and spent almost five hours less on court over the course of the tournament than his opponent.
Federer’s victory came off the back of an incredible few months on the tour, in which he won his fifth Australian Open in Melbourne—becoming the oldest man to win a Grand Slam since 1972—and dominated the early hard-court season with victories at Indian Wells and Miami. While many have been eager to bask in the sheer nostalgia of what’s been a throwback 2017 season—with Venus Williams in two finals at the majors (she was convincingly defeated at this year’s Wimbledon by Garbiñe Muguruza) and Rafael Nadal winning his tenth Roland-Garros—it’s increasingly clear that Federer, who is arguably the best player on the men’s tour at the moment and will go into the U.S. Open as the favorite, is not simply turning back the clock but is actually urging it forward.
The Frail and Human Roger Federer
Federer—who, over the last two weeks on the grass in Southwest London, had showcased the continuous evolution in his game since his knee injury last year—flourished against Čilić on Sunday. The Croat started well against an unusually nervy-looking Federer in the first few games of the opening set, and initially held his own as he pounded thundering serves and 75 miles-per-hour ground strokes at the Swiss. But Federer, well aware of Čilić’s most powerful tools, was quick to nullify them as he took control of the set. He overcame an early wobble as he saved a break point and then came back to break Čilić in the very next game, relentlessly returning his serve, winning an incredible point at the net, and piling on the pressure (as he did so convincingly against Tomáš Berdych in the semi-final two days earlier).
In successfully slowing down the rallies, Federer was able to combat Čilić’s heavy hitting with slice and spin, taking advantage of the already damp conditions, which helped keep the pace favorable against an aggressive, offensive baseliner. He closed out the first set quickly with strong service games of his own and two breaks of serve, leaving Čilić—like most players who tend to face Federer in Grand Slam finals—wondering how he ended up back at his chair a set down in just over 30 minutes.

The second set followed much the same storyline, with Federer’s mental strength and experience rattling the first-time Wimbledon finalist, who was in tears after the Swiss raced to a 3-0 lead. A typically calm Federer, who has noticeably benefitted from taking the usually exhaustive clay season off, capitalized on a weary Čilić, who was seemingly nursing a minor foot injury and trying to keep his movement sharp. Federer broke Čilić twice again, winning 12 of his receiving points to the latter’s two, and converted 86 percent of points on his first serve and a phenomenal 100 percent on his second. The veteran champion’s strategy of relying heavily on his versatile serve as a weapon has allowed him to see off younger, more athletic challengers and it was clearly paying off, as he wrapped up the second set with just 61 minutes on the clock.
A medical timeout for Čilić before the start of the third seemed only to delay the inevitable, as Federer broke serve at 3-3 after Čilić, well resigned to his fate, clunked another forehand into the net. The Croat did show some signs of fight, but it was too little, too late; Federer’s seamless footwork and movement were as graceful as ever, as he moved Čilić around the court, opening up impossible angles and spreading him thin with his signature single-handed backhand. (The Swiss even let out a rare show of emotion, shouting “Come on!” at the end of a spectacular rally in the seventh game.) Despite a couple of anxious moments at championship point that almost betrayed a human heart under Federer’s mythic exterior, the coronation was fittingly completed with an ace zipped right down the middle of the line in the blink of an eye. With it, Federer has joined Bjorn Borg as the only men in the Open era to win Wimbledon in straight sets.
As the season rolls on into hard-court tournaments and the U.S. Open, Federer will once again assume the burden of huge expectations that he’s shouldered throughout most of his decorated career. But having now won two out of the two Grand Slams he’s played so far (taking his total tally to 19—four more than Nadal) after coming back from what looked like the brink of retirement, he seems to be enjoying his tennis like never before. In a year that’s witnessed Novak Djokovic’s drastic fall from colossal heights, and usual challengers like Andy Murray (who remains world No. 1) and Stan Wawrinka seemingly not up to the task at the slams, Federer has stayed consistent. He’s found a way to conserve energy, pick his tournaments wisely, and most importantly, stay fit; “Better than holding the trophy and winning today, it’s just being healthy,” he said with visible relief in the post-match interview. The end of Roger Federer may not be too distant—and perhaps tennis fans would hope to see younger challengers coming to the fore—but at the moment, there may yet be more surprises to come from the man we thought had already won it all.
Warning: Game of Thrones Season 7 spoilers ahead.
It starts with a song. Arya Stark, having just taken her revenge on the men who had slaughtered her relatives at the Red Wedding, is riding her horse through a tranquil forest in the Riverlands. The setting is idyllic: Sunshine streams through a light mist. There’s a babbling brook. There’s also, in the near distance, music: a man, dulcet of voice, singing. “And a chain and a keep are nothing,” the balladeer croons, “compared to a woman’s kiss, for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman’s hands are warm.”
Arya, intrigued, follows the strains of the song. She finds their source in a group of Lannister bannermen, clad in their armor and mail, gathered around a campfire. The singer himself, a redhead, is—wait, is that Ed Sheeran?
Game of Thrones Gears Up for the Wars Still to Come
And, yep: It is totally Ed Sheeran. Ed Sheeran, denizen of Westeros. Ed Sheeran, who with his fellow armored friends offers Arya a bit of meat, and a swig of wine. Ed Sheeran who laughs, gently, when she grimaces at the drink’s strength. Ed Sheeran who is duly shocked—and, then, thoroughly amused—when hearing that Arya is voyaging to King’s Landing in order to “kill the queen.”
In an episode of Game of Thrones that involves, in no particular order, a child murdering a roomful of men; The Hound, seeming to have faith in something; Sansa Stark enjoying a mood that verges on cheerful; and, it must be mentioned, a whimsically dada set piece themed around fecal matter, the most surprising event of all might have been the Westerosi debut of the guy responsible for delivering, unto the world, “Shape of You.”
The Sheeran cameo had long been known of, sure. But here, finally, it was. And it was jarring. Not just because, you know, Ed Sheeran laughing about the death of Cersei Lannister. The appearance was jarring, more specifically, because Ed Sheeran existing in the same world as Cersei Lannister. Game of Thrones is a show, after all, that highly values insularity as a reflection of its carefully constructed universe—a universe so unable to conceive of anything beyond itself that characters refer to it not by a name, but rather as, simply, “the world.”
HBO’s version of George R.R. Martin’s book is a TV show, yes, and TV shows have actors who give interviews to Vulture and run Instagram accounts dedicated to their Pomeranian puppies and go on to star in that ridiculous Terminator sequel and otherwise serve as embodied reminders that “the world,” as presented, can never be fully contained as such. But Game of Thrones has also gone out of its way, to the extent any show can, to preserve the integrity of its universe. Each episode begins with a sweeping tour of that most literal expression of world-building: a map. Each scene emphasizes, in its way, regions’ distinctive languages and weapons and culture and clothing and cuisine to create an environment, overall, of immersive specificity. Each Sunday, for seven years now, Game of Thrones has invited viewers into an alternate reality that is so meticulously constructed that, for the hour, at least, the real world—with its own intrigues and injustices and plaintive music—falls away.
And then: Into all that, as the show premiered for its seventh season, stepped the man who is currently famous for filling the ears of the denizens of that latter world with the insight that “the club isn’t the best place to find a lover, so the bar is where I go.”
Sheeran’s appearance in the Riverlands, the region at the center of Game of Thrones’s Western continent, is perfectly fine, as a performance. He’s obviously a very good singer. He blends in nicely with the other actors who have been recruited to sit around that campfire. Had he been simply Ed Sheeran, the actor from Framlingham, instead of Ed Sheeran, the singer who—will—be loving you—’til—we’re 70, his musical scene would have been, simply, a lovely little palate cleanser after Arya’s grisly vengeance-taking. And one of the episode’s important moments, for that matter, as my colleague David Sims pointed out, of warm humanity breaking through the show’s backdrop of cruel and omnipresent war.
And had the show been more subtle about its latest cameo (Game of Thrones has, over the years, featured cheeky appearances from its executive producers, David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, who lent their faces to two of the death masks in the House of Black and White, and from Benioff’s parents, and—controversially—from George W. Bush, who made an unauthorized debut in the show as a head on a spike), the scene might also have suggested easy charm rather than strange Sheerancentrism. Musicians, in particular—among them Snow Patrol’s Gary Lightbody, Coldplay’s Will Champion, and members of Sigur Rós, Of Monsters and Men, and Mastodon—have long popped up on the show, to un-jarring effect. But those appearances have been relatively subtle. They have been appearances more than cameos, in the sense that they were simply there, without winkily announcing their presence.
Not so Sheeran’s. This was, in every way, a cameo: the highly recognizable hit-maker in the land of the Freys, his presence presented as a plot twist in itself—a fitting follow-up, thematically, to the identity-swapping form of justice Arya had embraced earlier in the episode. Sheeran’s appearance, the face from the one world showing up, suddenly, in the other, was played for the audience’s surprise and delight. It reveled in a very particular kind of irony.
“Pretty song,” Arya says, as she rides up to the soldiers’ campfire.
The show’s camera zooms, in a tight shot, onto the face of the warbling bannerman. Ed Sheeran! the camera points. Ed Sheeran! it wants to make sure you are fully aware. And then: “It’s a new one,” Ed Sheeran replies, as the camera hovers for an instant longer.
The line does nothing to serve Arya’s story or Game of Thrones’s. It makes no sense, this “new one,” coming from a Lannister soldier Arya has only just met. It makes sense only in the “yep, that’s totally Ed Sheeran” kind of way. “It’s a new one” is a sly commentary on Sheeran’s prolific output, and perhaps on the recording industry he is part of, and very definitely on the interplay between the world of Westeros and the world beyond its borders. (The song itself was in fact written by Ramin Djawadi, Game of Thrones’s composer, using lyrics that came from George R.R. Martin’s book.) What the line is not, though, is purposeful in any way but the meta.
Which is especially striking in “Dragonstone,” an episode that is otherwise so much about world-building and plot-furthering and storytelling—an episode that, tellingly, emphasizes in particular the meaning of maps. The episode finds Game of Thrones’s current queens, Cersei and Daenerys, developing their strategies with the help of massive versions of those mini-worlds. Cersei has had hers painted onto the ground in a courtyard in King’s Landing; Daenerys encounters hers in an abandoned palace on the island once home to Stannis Baratheon. Both maps suggest the physical sweep of the lands the women are fighting to rule; what they don’t depict, however, is the other kind of geography at play in the episode: the stuff far beyond the reaches of the Narrow Sea. Sheeran made his appearance in Westeros, Benioff and Weiss explained, at a panel at South by Southwest earlier this year, for a simple reason: Maisie Williams, the actress who plays Arya, is a fan of his. Sheeran, the showrunners revealed, was invited onto the show—and thus into “the world”—“as a surprise for Maisie.”
Every week for the seventh season of Game of Thrones, David Sims, Spencer Kornhaber, and Lenika Cruz will discuss new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners were made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
David Sims: It’s finally back. After 12 long months of waiting, 12 months of rumor, speculation, and fierce fan arguments, Game of Thrones has returned to answer the question we’ve all been asking: Just how does the sanitation system at the Citadel work? How has Westeros’s largest collection of intellects dealt with the issue of human defecation? Now we know: It’s Sam’s job, and he pours all the bedpans into a giant trough. Might as well end the show right here.
I jest, but only to honor the show that has been off our airwaves for so long and has made its much ballyhooed return in typically muted fashion, with a couple of silly tweaks that simply had to be for our benefit. With only 12 episodes remaining before this show is gone for good (we’ll get six more this year, followed by just six in Season 8), one might be pardoned for asking, as Milhouse of The Simpsons once did, when we’re going to get to the fireworks factory. Patience! “Dragonstone,” written by the show creators David Benioff and D.B. Weiss, was the kind of table-setter Game of Thrones always prefers for its season premiere, promising carnage to come but mostly using the first hour to push the pieces into place. And, in this case, to give us a good old-fashioned bedpan montage.
Game of Thrones: The Head That Wears the Crown
“Dragonstone” actually began in much more shocking fashion with a scene wrapping up Arya’s revenge from the Season 6 finale, “The Winds of Winter,” in which she killed the aged weasel Walder Frey as retribution for his part in the Red Wedding. Now, disguised as him, Arya the assassin gathered the entire Frey clan for a banquet, poisoning them all and revealing herself to Frey’s poor child bride. Even for the merciless Arya, it was a bloodthirsty moment, one that underlined just how much her training by the Faceless Men forged her. She’s not “no one,” as they wanted her to be, but she’s still a wraith—a vengeful Stark wraith who can operate without fear of upsetting lordly alliances.
It was fitting that “Dragonstone” began with a triumphant massacre and then spent the next 55 minutes pondering the moral gray areas of war and vengeance. That’s what Game of Thrones is really here for—to keep you arguing with yourself every time some plot development feels too neat or simple. Up in the north, Jon and Sansa debated the finer points of treason when Jon refused to strip the families of two traitorous houses—the Karstarks and Umbers—of their lands just because of the sins of their dead lords. Sansa, whose political acumen was forged in the fire of Ramsay Bolton’s torture and Cersei’s particular brand of leadership, argued for a deeper punishment, and I found myself surprised at how much I disagreed with her. Ruining families forever is what Lannisters do. But, as Sansa later admitted to Jon, she does admire Cersei’s indomitable spirit, in a weird sort of way.
Cersei, meanwhile, is in full-on defiance mode, her heart hardened by the death of Tommen. She’s having a gigantic map of Westeros painted as if to stubbornly pretend she’s still in charge of all of it, and when prodded by Jaime (who, honestly, did not seem angry enough at her to me) about her lack of allies, she produced Euron Greyjoy, dressed like an emo Captain Hook, who then promised to get her a proper wedding gift. Something to fight dragons with, methinks? Cersei’s going to need it, since Daenerys (in the episode’s final sequence) has taken roost at her birthplace of Dragonstone, the obsidian island off the coast of King’s Landing that was once home to Stannis Baratheon.
My favorite scenes in “Dragonstone,” though, were not these big pieces of plot movement but the quieter meditations on the unceasing foolishness of war, even in the face of Daenerys’s possible triumph. Arya, upon leaving The Twins, encountered a group of Lannister soldiers (including one Ed Sheeran) who seem as good-natured as any other Westerosi, a welcome change for a show that usually portrays red-armored men as pitiless monsters. The Hound, now traveling with the Brotherhood Without Banners, stumbled upon a home he once robbed, whose kind-hearted owner has long since died (along with his daughter). His understated burial service for the people he once wronged in the name of nihilism was the episode’s best moment, far more intriguing (to me) than his visions of oncoming doom from beyond The Wall. And Jon’s pronouncement of the new lords of Karhold and Last Hearth, a steely feudal pledge to two pale teenagers, was a stirring reminder of his belief in not judging people by their family name.
And then, of course, there were the bedpans, emptied dutifully by good old Sam, who toils away at Oldtown learning to be a maester in the hopes that he can repel the coming onslaught from the White Walkers. In all that excrement-cleaning, all that weighing of innards, came a revelation—Dragonstone is the key to defeating the dead, as it’s a veritable palace of obsidian. There also came a veiled threat, in the form of the Archmaester (played by a folksy Jim Broadbent) making a safe assumption. The Wall has stood for thousands of years. Why would it fall now? With so few episodes to go, I wouldn’t count my bedpans. Lenika and Spencer, what do you see in the flames?
Cruz: “Dragonstone” should win an Emmy next year for Most Disturbing Poop-Soup Montage on Television. (No brownish liquids for me for the next bazillion winters, thanks.) I, too, was weirdly drawn to the goings-on at the Citadel—far more than I was to Cersei’s machinations at King’s Landing, somehow. Maybe that’s because I’ve seen her royally ruin every situation in which she’s maneuvered her way into having the upper hand. Or maybe it’s because, without the counterweight of her love for and desire to protect her children, Cersei has even less moral dimension than she used to. Her goals have been reduced to simply keeping herself and her brother alive and ranting about her enemies in colorful language (though she didn’t manage to make “Ellaria Sand and her brood of bitches” sound entirely like an insult).
We had gotten a peek at the University of Westeros at Oldtown late in Season 6, and “Dragonstone” gave us a better look at the bowels (sorry) of the place, as well as its singular role in the history-keeping of the Seven Kingdoms and beyond. “We’re this world’s memory,” the archmaester there told Sam. Surprisingly, the old man believed Sam’s warnings about the White Walkers because of his own research, but he stopped short of marshaling the Citadel’s brainpower for Jon’s cause. To the archmaester, the fact that The Wall has been standing for thousands of years is evidence against true calamity. To him, The Wall is history and memory. Like the chains the maesters bedazzle their necks and library shelves with, it’s a symbol of continuity that endures even as foolish men and women spill blood over thrones and crowns.
The archmaester’s apolitical perspective was a good one to consider at the outset of this season before the politics consumes the plot. He even offered a compelling admonishment to resist myopic thinking lest humans be like dogs who “don’t remember any meal but the last, and can’t see forward to any but the next.” Of course, the archmaester is almost certainly dead wrong about the threat in the north. But he aptly illustrated the difficult task facing many characters this season: weighing generations upon generations of experience and reason against impossible prophecies and shadowy threats taking shape. How seriously to receive the news of the Dragon Queen returning to her ancestral home with flying beasts in tow? Or the visions dancing in the flames? Or the stories about men who have died and come back to life? Or the tales of ice zombies that haven’t been seen for millennia?
Likely lending credence to the last of those is Bran Stark, who’s back south of The Wall for the first time since Season 4 and ready to deliver his mystical findings. In case you’re counting, that’s now a total of four Starks between The Wall and the Riverlands. So many Starks! The next stop for him is likely Winterfell, where Jon is executing a thoughtful and gender equitable plan for dealing with the imminent White Walker invasion, while also trying to heal the wounds of a broken north. (The hall scene was mostly serious stuff, but the reveal that young Alys Karstark and Ned Umber were in the room while the Starks debated executing them reminded me of an Arrested Development-style comic zoom-out.) The conversations between Sansa and Jon about Cersei, and between Cersei and Jaime about the Ironborn, were like so many that we’ve seen before. One person says trust me, I know, and the other disregards that insight at their own peril.
Quickly, I have to give credit to “Dragonstone” director Jeremy Podeswa for giving us some lovely and haunting moments in this fairly calm premiere. I’m thinking of the two mistiest-looking scenes: the smoky visualization of the literal “winds of winter” as the Army of the Dead ranged farther south (oh god, don’t let that be White Walker Wun Wun!), and the shot of Thoros of Myr and the Hound quietly digging the graves. Both were reminders that it’s worth paying attention to what’s happening outside the walls of lordly castles. I also can’t help but wonder if the vision the Hound saw in the fire has to do with the Night King heading to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, newly manned by Tormund and his free folk: “It’s where The Wall meets the sea, there’s a castle there … the dead are marching past. Thousands of them.”
If so, I hope Daenerys and her luminous tendrils are ready to sail up the coast, preferably with lots of obsidian. Still, the immediate threat to peace, it appears, will come from King’s Landing and a cocksure but not totally incompetent Euron Greyjoy: Yes, an unprecedented existential threat of apocalyptic proportions looms, but first the blood feuds and dramatic proposals of marriage. Spencer, what do you make of this new Westeros and the people now attempting to rule it? And how many more episodes do you think it'll be until Daenerys finds out that poor Jorah Mormont couldn’t keep his promise to her?
Kornhaber: We’ve all sat through sleepily paced, dialogue-heavy, prologue-like Game of Thrones season premieres before, and the expectation that “Dragonstone” would be the same left me pleasantly surprised at how entertaining it was. Part of the fun came from the way the creators varied tone and style with three excellent wordless sequences, even if one of them, Sam’s montage, felt like a particularly revolting take on a recent internet meme.
Moreover, no episode that opens with a chumming of the fan-service waters like that Arya revenge scene can be called “boring.” It was a particularly mind-bending cold open, too. Viewers first were made to feel Leftovers-style disorientation as they tried to make sense of what seemed an impossible flashback, then got the satisfaction of having read the clues that Walder Frey was about to poison his men, and then were smacked by the truer twist of Walder really being Arya.  
Among the powerful things about that reveal was the simple visual shock of a greyed old man turning into a cherub-cheeked girl. Even if she’s accumulating a body count higher than most of our own world’s serial killers, Arya really still is a kid. Perhaps it’s her immaturity that makes her decide to continue immediately toward her biggest target, Cersei, rather than, say, take a breath and let her Stark siblings know she’s not dead. But her kid-ness was most apparent in the scene with the Lannister bannermen, the most boyish of whom—not Ed Sheeran, but the blackberry-wine maker—she connected with the most. What would it be like for her to have friends her age? (Miss you, Hot Pie!) What would it be like for her to have hobbies other than assassination?
Much of the hour similarly revolved around young people taking on responsibilities that would be left to their elders were their elders not already decomposing. Winterfell in particular felt like the meet-up place for a very un-fun youth group. After he proclaimed that both boys and girls as young as 10 would have to battle, Jon enlisted the loyalties of two moppets who find themselves head of household alongside child-ruler Lyanna Mormont. In this, we see the starkest manifestation of George R.R. Martin’s interest in how innocence isn’t the sacred status we might want it to be. In Thrones but also often in our own world, the wars to come must be fought by a generation orphaned by the wars that came before.
Jon and Sansa have long stood as symbols of that same idea, and though they’re now the ones giving orders, they are still sorting through the teachings of those who raised them. From Ned, Jon took some wisdom about rejecting flattery—as well as, Sansa implied to him, a dangerously naïve sense of honor. Because of her gender, Sansa herself wasn’t availed of frank fatherly advice: “He never wanted us to see how dirty the world really is.” In a fascinating move from the writers of the show, we heard her invoke not Catelyn but Cersei as someone from whom she’s taken life lessons—ones that amount to “show no mercy.” The squabbling between Jon and Sansa thus wasn’t mere sibling rivalry. It represented the fundamental moral struggle of Thrones: between those trying to live by a code and those who are just trying to live.
Though older than Jon, Cersei is similarly now stepping into the role her father groomed her for, “whether he knew it or not” (Jaime: “he knew it”). The scene of the Lannister twins in the new map courtyard made for a typically sharp sparring match, imparting the weight of the task that faces them, the depth of loss that they live with, and the way that this brother and sister differ in approaches. Jaime for some time has seemed reserved, guarded, and with Cersei having gone full Mad Queen at the cost of their last remaining child’s life, I sensed some calculated gentleness in his attempts to persuade her toward moderation. She meanwhile seems a bit thrilled about getting to execute a strategic maneuver she learned from 40 years of listening to Tywin: the alliance by marriage.
Her comrade in that plot, Euron Greyjoy, has been hyped as the successor to Ramsay and Joffrey in show’s maniacal-villain slot. He’ll have to bring his ick factor up quite a bit to compete with them, but I’d be fine if he stays in the zone he’s in now: amoral and pompous but not altogether unwatchable, providing much-needed comic relief. His line about how “wonderful” it feels to kill one’s own brother certainly landed interestingly in front of Cersei and Jaime, and his feisty staring contest with The Mountain gave the impression of someone who knows which fights can’t be won by might alone. What priceless gift is this nu-Jack Sparrow going to bring Cersei? Surely one of her enemy’s heads, but which one? With all his talk of sibling betrayal and fratricide, I’d bet Euron might try for Tyrion.
Which would mean confronting Daenerys just after she and her fleet have landed in Westeros. The closing scene of her arriving in Dragonstone might have seemed drawn out—a showcase of set design to justify all the plasterers and carpenters named in the episode credits—had the hour before it not been filled with hints that Dragonstone, a landmark not seen since Season 4, will be of great importance. After so much time watching Daenerys in exile, viewers know well what this moment means to her. It’s not only that she’s embarking on a long-planned mission of conquest. It’s that she, like so many characters, is finally stepping into the role she’s prepared all life for—and that her ancestors had prepared for as well.
In the fourth episode of Friends From College, Max (Fred Savage) and Felix (Billy Eichner) are celebrating Max’s 40th birthday at The Table, a “super-exclusive” restaurant they’ve waited months to get into. The chef brings over a course on the tasting menu: a “hamburger” reconstructed from foie gras, gorgonzola foam, and toasted slices of spam. The next course is “fruit rollups” made from wild strawberries and organic, acorn-fed pig gelatin. The most popular restaurant in Manhattan is serving kid’s food—it’s sourced from a variety of hyper-expensive ingredients, but it’s essentially the same kind of garbage.
And that’s pretty much the crux of Friends From College itself. It’s about a group of six college friends pushing 40 who have the trappings of adulthood—kids, expensive condos, Mercedes G-Class SUVs—but are somehow stuck at the same level of emotional maturity they were at when they first met. In the first episode, Ethan (Keegan-Michael Key), an author of literary fiction, moves back to New York with his wife, Lisa (Cobie Smulders), in a reverse version of every freshman’s U-Haul journey. The pair temporarily live on a pullout couch in an apartment rented by their friend Marianne (Jae Suh Park). Ethan is also engaging in a 20-year affair with Sam (Annie Parisse), another mutual friend who’s married to John (Greg Germann), who flies drones around their living room and orders hampers from Zabar’s rather than make breakfast for his kids.
Tour de Pharmacy's Insane, Riotous Ride
The show is, to be clear, awkward—it meanders through strange plotlines and spends an excruciating amount of time on ridiculous capers, and its characters almost seem to be competing to out-awful each other. It’s been largely panned. Expectations were presumably very different for a half-hour Netflix comedy created by a Judd Apatow protégé, Nicholas Stoller. Like Apatow, Stoller seems fascinated by Peter Pan syndrome, but in his eyes, it’s a modern affliction that’s ruining us all, not just a spoiled actor or a 40-year-old virgin. Friends From College is, essentially, a tragedy. Over the course of eight episodes, its characters display a breathtaking level of arrested development, and almost all of them proceed to blow up their various lives rather than pursue even minimal personal growth. “You guys are stuck in some 20-year time warp,” Felix says, after a vineyard tour goes sour. “It’s fucking pathetic.” And it is.
Take Ethan, who’s forced to abandon his literary career in the first few episodes to write novels for teens instead. “Even the Great American Novel is now the Massive International Young Adult Series,” Max, his agent, explains. Lisa gets a job as a lawyer for a hedge fund, where morning meetings consist of a bunch of finance bros teabagging the speakerphone and screaming obscenities while the SEC is on mute. Max and Ethan brainstorm ideas for his YA pitch in a frantic cram session involving pizza, tap dancing, and copious amounts of Adderall. “I am part-man, part-wolf,” Ethan howls at one point, “humiliated by modern society by day, but at night turned loose, and able to do exactly what I want.”
That no one at any point breaks out an adult coloring book during the show’s four hours is a remarkable show of restraint. The friends rent a party bus to tour the dubious vineyards of Long Island. They crash weddings. They play tennis while loudly shrieking, Monica Seles-style. They have Nerf fights. Ethan smashes not one but two windows. The show’s music communicates how deeply entrenched they all are in their college state of mind: Hanson, Eels, Oasis, Cornershop, the soundtrack from Rent. The only people more hopeless than the six primary characters are the people younger than them, who perform graphic twerk routines at parties and believe internet reports that lung cancer’s been debunked.
Friends From College is largely uncomfortable to watch, although when it’s funny, it can be brilliant (Kate McKinnon has an especially sharp guest performance as a YA author with a shirtless boytoy and a Fogo de Chao franchise). The show’s biggest crime is that it overestimates its audience’s tolerance for watching people screw up. When it lets its characters be real people rather than monsters, it can be deeply moving. (The fourth episode, which deals with Lisa’s attempts to get pregnant via IVF, is one of the most realistic portrayals of infertility in TV history, although it’s undermined by a manic caper plot that sees Ethan try to retrieve hormones they keep losing.) Stoller’s bleak representation of people trying and failing to “adult”—in a moment where grownups use fidget spinners and sticker books are stress toys—is intriguing. But it isn’t really funny.
MTV News, Chance the Rapper, and a Defense of Negative Criticism
Amanda Petrusich | The New Yorker
“Criticism doesn’t require its subject to acquiesce. For anyone accustomed to high degrees of control, this can seem, at first, like an affront. But well-rendered criticism confirms that the work is high stakes. This criticism can be illuminating and thrilling, and might offer an important vantage on a very private experience.”
Amy Pascal’s Hollywood Ending, Complete With Comeback Twist
Brooks Barnes | The New York Times
“Pascal, a 59-year-old woman in an industry rife with sexism and ageism, seems to have emerged stronger and happier, having reinvented herself as a producer through her company, Pascal Pictures ... On a personal level, after a lot of soul-searching, some in a therapist’s office, she has tried to see the hack as freeing. After all, she has no more secrets.”
Behind the Scenes at Fox and Friends, America’s Most Influential Morning Show (Seriously)
Marisa Guthrie | The Hollywood Reporter
“At a time when media consumption ... has been politicized to a degree not seen in decades, Fox & Friends has become a crucial strategic front for the president's war on the outlets he doesn't like. Trump doesn’t just watch Fox & Friends religiously; he often seems to take his talking points and even his policy cues directly from its content. Like it or not, thanks to its First Fan, the show may be the most influential news program in America.”
Laura Harrier and Nail Art: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Saga of Lena Dunham’s Dog Lamby, the Walking Internet Receipt
Ashley Feinberg | Wired
“We’ll likely never know exactly what happened with (to?) Lamby, but if nothing else, the dispute highlights just how permanent social media can be. Every tweet that vents frustration at a keening dog, every shared joke among friends, even a deleted photo can take on unintended significance years down the road. No single moment in time can tell a story—but the ever-accruing feed that you send into the world can portray all kinds of narratives.”
An Oral History of The Simpsons’ Classic Planet of the Apes Musical
Jesse David Fox | Vulture
“The musical … similarly made a mark on those who created it, if only because how relatively easy it came together … The bit has so many disparate parts—‘80s Austrian-pop parody, old-school-musical homage, Planet of the Apes, break-dancing, old vaudeville-style jokes—but in the hands of The Simpsons and its writers, it works. Or as Bill Oakley, one of the two showrunners at the time, told Vulture, ‘[It] was just a magic visit from the joke fairy.’”
The New Rock Stars: Inside Today’s Golden Age of Comedy
Elahe Izadi | The Washington Post
“The plethora of material online and the increased interest in comics have potential downsides. How can you be noticed in such a crowded field? If so many people have a special, is it special anymore? The size of your social-media following can help get you, or cost you, a gig—and is being good at Twitter the same as being good on stage, anyway?”
The Intimacy of Writing in the Second Person, in a Bar
Mairead Small Staid | Literary Hub
“What you love about it: You don’t, to be honest. You find it cowardly or lazy or something in your own work, though you adore it in others: Lorrie Moore’s early stories, Richard Siken’s poems, the essay by Michael Paterniti that begins, ‘Go with him. Go out into the feed yards with Jack Hooker.’ Even then, however, it is not the voice specifically that you love but what those writers do with it, their humor and panic and pathos.”
Heads Without Bodies
A.S. Hamrah | n+1
“Trump’s head is struggling to control our actions and responses the same way [Ray] Milland’s head struggled to control [Rosey] Grier’s body in this cheap movie. The devil finds work where he can. The Thing With Two Heads was too dumb to be noticed by James Baldwin in his book-length essay on race and the movies, and I had to go to Canada to run into it. Now it’s the kind of stupid we live with every day.”
Don’t Miss
All the Brown Girls on TV—Mallika Rao profiles HBO’s latest web-series acquisition, which takes place in a queer, multiracial, multiethnic arts landscape in Chicago.
Film
Science Fiction’s Under-Appreciated Feminist Icon—Gabrielle Bellot celebrates one of the genre’s first protagonists to own her own womanhood.
Why Hollywood Should Pay Attention to Dunkirk—David Sims contemplates 70-millimeter projection as the answer to audiences’ declining interest in 3-D.
To the Bone: The Trouble With Anorexia on Film—Sophie Gilbert dives into how the new Netflix movie illustrates how difficult it is to portray a disorder that has fascinated culture for centuries.
War for the Planet of the Apes Is an Epic Slog—David Sims sits through the series’ third entry, a technical accomplishment but a storytelling drag.
Lady Macbeth Is a Brilliant, Macabre Period Drama—David Sims delights in William Oldroyd’s debut film that tackles murder and infidelity in rural Victorian England.
Television
Will Is Flagrantly Silly, Glam-Rock Shakespeare—Sophie Gilbert reviews the new TNT show reinventing 16th-century London as a bacchanal of sex, drugs, and steampunk.
A Shake-Up for the 2017 Emmy Nominations—David Sims says that with old favorites like Downton Abbey and Game of Thrones out of the running, this year’s awards could get interesting.
The Hidden Message in the Architecture of Steven Universe—Josh Kramer analyzes the show’s creative backdrops and finds that enchantment and imperfection can exist together.
How Will the Game of Thrones Be Won?—David Sims questions what will become of Westeros as the show returns for its seventh season.
Sports
Baseball’s Eyes Are on Aaron Judge—Robert O’Connell examines the staying power of the New York Yankees’ star rookie slugger.
Video Games
The Apocalyptic Appeal of PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds—David Sims tests out the online video game selling faster than Minecraft.
Art
The Weird Scientific Illustrations That Shaped Pop Culture—Sam Lubell explores the works of a group of artists and researchers that teamed up to discover new species a century ago.
Game of Thrones is, inarguably, the king of the TV water-cooler. There’s no other show around that maintains total command of the zeitgeist and dominates the pop-culture conversation every week like Thrones does each season. In the fractured world of Peak TV, the HBO fantasy epic is still a show you have to watch live rather than wait to binge, such is the ubiquity of spoilers. And yet, as the series returns for its seventh and penultimate season Sunday on HBO, even avid fans could be forgiven for not quite remembering where things in Westeros last left off.
Thrones has been off-air so long—the last season premiered in April 2016—because the showrunners David Benioff and D.B. Weiss wanted extra time to prep all the warfare on the way. They were also seeking to harness a cold-weather schedule, since the long-promised winter of the show has truly arrived. The seasons in the world of Thrones go on for years at a time—the last summer went for a decade—but Season 7 (which will run for only seven episodes) will pick up at a truly dark and cold moment for the show, where any chance for a return to the relative harmony of the show’s early episodes feels more remote than ever.
Game of Thrones: The Head That Wears the Crown
So much coverage of Game of Thrones focuses on the eponymous struggle—the bloody jockeying for control of Westeros’s Iron Throne that has raged on for years. But my favorite thing about the series, and especially its sixth-season finale, is how pointless that ongoing conflict has become as the closing episodes draw closer. In “The Winds of Winter,” the last episode of Season 6, Queen Cersei finally got what she wanted—unobstructed control of the throne—after blowing up the Sept of Baelor in the capital city of King’s Landing and eliminating her chief rivals, Queen Margaery Tyrell and the religiously fanatic High Sparrow. All it cost her was the life of her only surviving child King Tommen (who killed himself in sorrow over Margaery’s death) and whatever remained of her humanity.
The closing moments of Season 6, with the camera tightly focused on Cersei’s face as she sat on the Iron Throne, suggested as much—she was less triumphant (the thrill of victory passed once she realized Tommen was dead) than grimly determined. The power is hers now, but she has little else left, and she’s surrounded by citizens who bear no love for her (her coronation didn’t get any cheers) and twisted advisers like Maester Qyburn (a mad scientist) and the Mountain (a mute, zombified corpse). We’ve yet to see her confrontation with Jaime—her brother and Tommen’s father—but the look of horror on his face when he returned to the smoking wreck of King’s Landing said it all.
In Season 7 (no episodes have been provided to critics), Cersei is now gearing up for rebellion on at least three different fronts, with only her family’s Lannister forces committed to protecting her. In the north is Jon Snow, who has retaken the Stark lands alongside the re-emerged Sansa, and has been proclaimed “King in the North” after defeating the nasty Bolton occupation. Jon has always wrestled with his sense of duty—he knows there’s a zombie invasion coming from the frosty lands of the White Walkers—but he’s also long nursed a desire for vengeance over the death of his “father” Ned in the show’s first season. I say “father” because, of course, Jon’s true parentage was confirmed at the end of last season. He’s the progeny of a Stark and a Targaryen—the son of Ned’s sister, Lyanna, and the former Mad King’s son, Rhaegar Targaryen, which makes him more uniquely suited to the Westerosi throne than he knows.
In the south are the rebellious Dornish, nursing a decades-long grudge against the Lannisters and, in particular, the Mountain. The nearby Tyrells allied with them in the last episode, with the ruthless Lady Olenna Tyrell looking to avenge the death of Margaery (and her useless son Mace) at the hands of Cersei. They look to be partnering with Rhaegar’s sister, Daenerys, arriving from the east by boat, who has finally gotten herself together and left the show’s distant worlds of Essos to conquer her homeland, allied with the navy of the Iron Islands and the horse-riding Dothraki, and with three fire-breathing dragons in tow. While Jon is bound to leadership by a sense of duty, Daenerys sees herself as a liberator, a queen steeped in moral righteousness who freed slaves across the sea for the greater good.
Then there are the show’s other heroes who aren’t vying to rule the continent: Arya Stark has become an avenging angel, an assassin who broke free from her training with the Faceless Men but retained their stealthy skills. It’s hard to see how she’d find her way back into the show’s courtly politics, or why she’d want to. Her brother Bran has turned into a literal flashback machine, designed to peer into the show’s past with his psychic powers and learn things the audience needs to know. Cersei’s brother Tyrion, meanwhile, is seeking his own form of redemption and revenge wrapped up in one job: serving Daenerys in her quest to reclaim Westeros.
The question of Season 7 will not so much be who to root for, but whether these various leaders will develop the self-awareness and humility seemingly needed to rule, or whether they’ll be crushed by the power that comes with it. The ending of George R. R. Martin’s original A Song of Ice and Fire books, which the show has now outpaced, has long pointed toward some obvious conflicts. Daenerys would always eventually come over to Westeros with her dragons, Jon was always going to take control in the north, and Cersei’s hold on power was always going to grow more and more tenuous. But that clash, or any predictable alliance—like one between “ice” (Jon) and “fire” (Daenerys)—is something Martin has said he wants to avoid, as he has never enjoyed taking the easy narrative paths.
That’s why Martin is taking so long to finish his saga in book form, but the vagaries of TV scheduling demand an ending, and with 13 total episodes to go (Season 8 will be even more abridged), I have to believe there’s something more surprising ahead than a straightforward war for the throne, followed by a battle with the advancing White Walkers. Will Arya cross any more names off her list? Will Jaime finally abandon the Lannister name entirely? Does the scheming Littlefinger have any remaining cards up his sleeve? I’ll likely be discussing those questions—and much more—when I join my colleagues Spencer Kornhaber and Lenika Cruz for our Game of Thrones roundtable starting Sunday night.
To the Bone, which arrives on Netflix Friday, is a mostly unremarkable film about anorexia, in that it follows the model of virtually all existing films about the subject. Ellen (Lily Collins), a young white woman from a privileged but dysfunctional family, is anorexic. In the narrative arc of the movie, she’s admitted to a treatment center, where a charismatic doctor (Keanu Reeves) essentially tells her to choose life. She gets better, and then worse. All this aside, there’s one notable difference between this particular movie and its manifold predecessors: It debuted at Sundance, not on Lifetime.
If nothing else, the movie’s platform is a hopeful sign for sincere treatments of anorexia, since features tackling the subject have historically been sidelined to  the schlocky genre of movies made for television. There’s The Best Little Girl in the World, a 1981 movie produced by Aaron Spelling that starred Jennifer Jason Leigh as a 17-year-old cheerleader and ballet dancer who develops an eating disorder. That movie was based on a book by the psychotherapist Steven Levenkron, who treated Karen Carpenter; after Carpenter’s death from anorexia in 1983, the film received a boost in the public eye. The Karen Carpenter Story, a lightly fictionalized movie about Carpenter’s struggle with the illness, even aired on CBS in 1989.
The Challenge of Treating Anorexia in Adults
There’s 1994’s For the Love of Nancy, which, like To the Bone, featured in the main role an actress who’d previously recovered from anorexia (Tracey Gold). There’s 1996’s When Friendship Kills, and 1997’s Perfect Body, and 2001’s Dying to Dance, and 2003’s Hunger Point. More recently, Lifetime aired Starving in Suburbia, a 2014 film that expanded the confines of the genre by including  a new scare factor: pro-anorexia (colloquially known as pro-ana) websites, which supposedly lure unsuspecting teens into starving themselves by encouraging anorexics to share their own tips and tricks.
The fact that such a glut of movies exist about anorexia—compared with only a few about bulimia, and virtually none at all about binge-eating disorder, or Other Specified Feeding or Eating Disorder (OSFED), the latter of which afflicts as many as 60 percent of the patients in treatment for eating disorders—presents an uncomfortable paradox. On the one hand, Americans are surprisingly educated about anorexia. Eighty-two percent of people surveyed in 2010 described eating disorders as a serious mental and physical illness, with only 12 percent dismissing them as afflictions of vanity.
On the other, cultural portrayals of anorexia have become inextricable from the disease itself. At LitHub, JoAnna Novak has written about immersing herself in books about eating disorders as a teenager with anorexia. TV movies have bolstered the conception that such illnesses only affect young, white teenagers, but they also often provide a model for anorexics to follow. One discussion topic on the website MyProAna.com features an extremely thorough list of movies and TV shows about eating disorders; there are 11 pages of responses from users debating their various qualities: truthfulness, relatability, specific calorie and weight references. “Seen every single film and every single documentary about 20 times over,” one commenter wrote.
It might not be possible for filmmakers and documentarians to portray anorexia in a way that avoids triggering vulnerable viewers, according to Dr. Melissa Nishawala, the clinical director of the Eating Disorders Service at NYU Langone’s Child Study Center: “Because individuals struggling with anorexia nervosa often have an extreme drive to the superlative—to be the best student, to feel the most valued, and to become the thinnest—any film depicting anorexia nervosa risks igniting the quest towards starvation.” That said, Nishawala specifically advises against filmmakers including images of bony figures, focusing on numbers (calories or weights), or depicting scenes of specific eating-disordered behaviors.
When the trailer for To the Bone was released, it prompted a flood of critiques noting that the film appeared to contain many images and scenes that could be triggering to recovering anorexics. The problem, though, isn’t just with this specific film. It’s a whole genre, a culture, that has a morbid and complex fascination with emaciated female bodies. To the Bone, inspired by its director Marti Noxon’s own experiences with anorexia, is a largely sensitive and thoughtful treatment of the disorder, but it can’t dodge the fact that any truthful depiction of anorexia will, by its nature, trigger those who struggle with the disease. The question is whether the usefulness of recovery narratives is worth the damage done in feeding a cultural curiosity that’s deeply unhealthy.
* * *
One of the best cultural dissections of anorexia in recent years is Katy Waldman’s “There Once Was a Girl,” a 2015 essay for Slate that incorporated Waldman’s personal experiences with eating disorders with a critical analysis of the literary narratives surrounding them. From the “fragile sylphs” of Victorian fiction to the “brilliant madwomen bent on self-destruction,” Waldman recounts how anorexia has long been fetishized in culture. Perhaps that’s because, unlike many other mental-health disorders, it’s predicated on self-control. Fasting, which has deep roots in various spiritual practices, is a way of denying physical gratification to prove the depths of one’s discipline and devotion.
Religious fasting was also one of the earliest expressions of anorexia. Rudolph Bell, the author of Holy Anorexia, has suggested that as many as “half of the 42 Italian women who lived and died in the 13th century and came to be recognized as saints exhibited an anorexic behavior pattern.” Emma Donoghue’s 2016 novel The Wonder deals with the phenomenon of young girls in the 19th century who claimed to exist without food, “fed” by the holy spirit alone.
The author Hilary Mantel, in a 2004 essay for The Guardian, considered how the virtue associated with fasting fits into a broader cultural sympathy for anorexia, compared with the widespread condemnation of binge eaters. “Though the temporarily thin find it easy to preach against the fat, we are much more interested in anorexia than in obesity,” she writes. “We all understand self-indulgence, but are afraid that self-denial might be beyond us.” Films like To the Bone, however well-intentioned, feed this fascination. Ellen does so many sit-ups per day that she has bruises on her spine. In one scene, she resists a bite of her favorite candy bar with extraordinary, painful self-resolve.
It isn’t just anorexics and spiritual leaders who preach the virtues of self-control. The most popular mantras propagated by trainers and fitness bloggers on Instagram (“sweat is fat crying”) are often indistinguishable from the slogans on pro-ana websites. We understand, as cultural consumers, that anorexia is a disease, but we also, in some ways, admire it, and all the abstemiousness that it implies. The on-hiatus NBC show The Biggest Loser, in which obese contestants competed to see who can shed the most excess weight, used to push the scripture of discipline and physical will to several million viewers a week. The author Roxane Gay once described “the spectacle of the contestants pushing themselves in inhuman ways—crying and sweating and vomiting—visibly purging their bodies of weakness.”
Despite anorexia’s disproportionate influence in the media, it receives pitifully little when it comes to researching who struggles with it, and why. Schizophrenia, which affects one-tenth as many people in the U.S. as eating disorders, got 10 times the funds in the 2011 National Institutes of Health budget, despite the fact that the latter have the highest mortality rate among mental illnesses. This is why, in part, so little is known about the demography of anorexics, and why movies have such power in influencing public perceptions about who suffers from eating disorders. To the Bone is notable in that the patients at Ellen’s treatment center include a young black woman and a male ballet dancer. But Ellen herself fits the popular narrative model as a pretty, white woman whose parents are wealthy and divorced. (The film gives no consideration to patients whose health insurance might not cover professional help, although in 2014, treatment for eating disorders was excluded from the list of “essential health benefits” the Affordable Care Act required insurers to cover.)
It’s notable, too, that the cinematic standard for anorexics isn’t so different from the standard female movie star: young, white, very attractive, very slender. In the 1920s, the National Eating Disorders Association states, the average body-mass index of Miss America winners was 22. By the 2000s, it was 16.9—just below the medical threshold for anorexia. Which leads to the question of whether there’s a positive way to address eating disorders onscreen. Accurate depictions of anorexia encourage better awareness of the disorder, but they also encourage those afflicted by it. Collins’s emaciated frame in To the Bone is viscerally shocking to most viewers, but will inevitably  be offered up as “thinspiration” on pro-ana sites. Still, ignoring the subject altogether isn’t an option, since narratives that communicate how often eating disorders end in recovery are crucial.
* * *
To the Bone is at least a step forward in how seriously it takes its subject. Noxon resists the splashy, voyeuristic model of Lifetime movies and tries to illuminate the confining reality of Ellen’s existence. It’s never intimated that her anorexia was the result of wanting to be thin or pretty; the movie has a fairly sophisticated grasp of how much more complex it is. Collins’s performance is deliberately small and restricted—only once does she raise her voice, and when she does, it’s jarring. Her doctors treat eating disorders like other addictions, addressing the highs they induce, and the lows they help paper over. “Starving yourself can make you feel euphoric, like a drug addict or an alcoholic,” a counselor at Ellen’s inpatient facility says.* “What you crave is the numbing of the thing that you don’t want to feel.”
Oddly, though, one of the most insightful treatments of anorexia in film embraces the exact same kitsch that characterizes many of those Lifetime movies. In 1987, the filmmaker Todd Haynes made Superstar: The Karen Carpenter Story, a retelling of Carpenter’s life. The 43-minute movie is famously difficult to see, since it was banned after Haynes neglected to get permission for any of the songs he featured. Here, the paradox of portraying anorexia is key: Haynes incorporates and subverts virtually every cultural trope when it comes to eating disorders. The “characters” are played by Barbie dolls, archetypal representatives of unrealistic female body types. Haynes reportedly whittled away at the doll he used to “play” Carpenter to show her disorder getting worse, in a disturbing visual manifestation of anorexia’s effects that didn’t require an actress to lose unhealthy amounts of weight.
The movie, too, is saturated with modern American culture, and its style emulates the breathy, insincere format of 1980s television. In one frame, Haynes focuses on the branding of a packet of  the laxative Ex-Lax, as iconic as a Campbell’s soup can. In another, nightmarish scene, he conveys Carpenter’s disintegrating mental state by filming from her perspective while all her biggest hits play on top of each other in an aural simulation of obsession and overconsumption. But he also illuminates some of the factors that often contribute to anorexia: a controlling familial environment, anxiety, and obsessive, insular thinking.
Superstar is an impossible work to emulate, but it proves that filmmakers can expand the scope and potential of works about eating disorders without contributing to the culture that encourages them. They just have to get more creative. Nishawala recommends that filmmakers only show characters layered in clothing to avoid images of skeletal frames, and that they focus on the relationships characters have, and other aspects of their lives, rather than just their disordered behaviors. She also emphasizes that it’s important to portray treatment as effective. “Perhaps part of the story would be told through sessions with a smart, effective therapist who helps by building skills and helping the individual with the eating disorder to become stronger and more insightful,” she says. “Maybe that’s a dream, but I would love to see it.”
Just as important is redefining the common perception that people of color don’t suffer from eating disorders, or that they only afflict young women. Some of these works will inevitably be triggering. Angela Gulner’s webseries, Binge, includes graphic, uncomfortable dramatizations of Gulner’s experiences with bulimia, which Gulner has said is her intent—she wanted others who’ve experienced it to know they’re not alone. Others might be necessarily horrifying, like Rodrigo Prieto’s 2013 short film Likeness, which stars Elle Fanning as a teenager with crippling body dysmorphia. But the more they chip away at perverse, reinforced portrayals of eating disorders, the more potential they have both as works of art and forces of change.
* This article originally misattributed this quote to Keanu Reeves's character. We regret the error.
A sweeping year of Peak TV dominated the Emmy nominations Thursday morning, with new series like The Crown, The Handmaid’s Tale, Stranger Things, Westworld, and This Is Us entering a drama field now dominated by shows on streaming networks. The comedy field remained more stable, with old favorites like Veep and Modern Family leading the pack, but overall the industry awards reflected the ongoing state of change in the world of television, as established networks like HBO, FX, and AMC contend with an onslaught of high-quality scripted programming from sites like Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon.
The nominations, announced by the actors Shemar Moore and Anna Chlumsky, also suggest that the limited series is still en vogue, with some of the biggest critical hits of the year (including Feud, Fargo, Big Little Lies, and The Night Of) doing battle in a category that was a relative graveyard of quality only a few years ago. Though some new comedies broke through (particularly FX’s Atlanta), it was the Drama Series nominations that saw a real shake-up, with last year’s winner Game of Thrones taking a year off, the longtime Emmy favorite Downton Abbey finally out of the picture, and last year’s critical darling Mr. Robot contending with a sophomore slump.
Breakouts, Snubs, and Stars in the 2016 Emmy Nominations
The winners will be announced Sunday, September 17, at a ceremony hosted by Stephen Colbert (it will air on his parent network CBS), though most of the smaller technical awards will be given out at the “Creative Arts” ceremonies on September 9 and 10. In a year without Game of Thrones, the Drama Series category will be wide open (five of the seven nominees are in their first season), with Netflix’s The Crown possibly holding a slight edge because of its costume-drama credentials (a longtime favorite for awards voters), though its sci-fi series Stranger Things may coast to victory on pure buzz.
Comedy Series only has one new nominee (Atlanta), and the Emmy veteran Veep, which has won the last two trophies, may be tough to dethrone. Limited Series is a total free-for-all, but HBO’s Big Little Lies, which drew several nominations for its all-star cast (including Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Shailene Woodley, and Alexander Skarsgard), is probably the front-runner on name recognition alone. A full list of the major nominations is below, with a longer list of all the technical nominations available at the Emmys website.
Outstanding Drama Series
Better Call Saul
The Crown
The Handmaid’s Tale
House of Cards
Stranger Things
This Is Us
Westworld
Outstanding Actor in a Drama Series
Sterling K. Brown, This Is Us
Anthony Hopkins, Westworld
Bob Odenkirk, Better Call Saul
Matthew Rhys, The Americans
Liev Schreiber, Ray Donovan
Kevin Spacey, House of Cards
Milo Ventimiglia, This Is Us
Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series
Viola Davis, How to Get Away with Murder
Claire Foy, The Crown
Elisabeth Moss, The Handmaid’s Tale
Keri Russell, The Americans
Evan Rachel Wood, Westworld
Robin Wright, House of Cards
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series
Jonathan Banks, Better Call Saul
John Lithgow, The Crown
Mandy Patinkin, Homeland
Michael Kelly, House of Cards
David Harbour, Stranger Things
Ron Cephas Jones, This Is Us
Jeffrey Wright, Westworld
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series
Ann Dowd, The Handmaid’s Tale
Samira Wiley, The Handmaid’s Tale
Uzo Aduba, Orange Is the New Black
Millie Bobby Brown, Stranger Things
Chrissy Metz, This Is Us
Thandie Newton, Westworld
Outstanding Guest Actor in a Drama Series
Ben Mendelsohn, Bloodline
BD Wong, Mr. Robot
Hank Azaria, Ray Donovan
Denis O’Hare, This Is Us
Brian Tyree Henry, This Is Us
Gerald McRaney, This Is Us
Outstanding Guest Actress in a Drama Series
Alison Wright, The Americans
Alexis Bledel, The Handmaid’s Tale
Cicely Tyson, How to Get Away with Murder
Ann Dowd, The Leftovers
Laverne Cox, Orange Is the New Black
Shannon Purser, Stranger Things
Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series
Vince Gilligan, Better Call Saul (“Witness”)
Steven Daldry, The Crown (“Hyde Park Corner”)
Reed Morano, The Handmaid’s Tale (“Offred”)
Kate Dennis, The Handmaid’s Tale (“The Bridge”)
Lesli Linka Glatter, Homeland (“America First”)
The Duffer Brothers, Stranger Things (“Chapter One: The Vanishing of Will Byers”)
Jonathan Nolan, Westworld (“The Bicameral Mind”)
Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series
Joel Fields, Joe Weisberg, The Americans (“The Soviet Division”)
Gordon Smith, Better Call Saul (“Chicanery”)
Peter Morgan, The Crown (“Assassins”)
Bruce Miller, The Handmaid’s Tale (“Offred”)
The Duffer Brothers, Stranger Things (“Chapter One: The Vanishing of Will Byers”)
Lisa Joy, Jonathan Nolan, Westworld (“The Bicameral Mind”)
Outstanding Comedy Series
Atlanta
Black-ish
Master of None
Modern Family
Silicon Valley
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Veep
Outstanding Actor in a Comedy Series
Anthony Anderson, Black-ish
Aziz Ansari, Master of None
Zach Galifianakis, Baskets
Donald Glover, Atlanta
William H. Macy, Shameless
Jeffrey Tambor, Transparent
Outstanding Actress in a Comedy Series
Pamela Adlon, Better Things
Jane Fonda, Grace and Frankie
Allison Janney, Mom
Ellie Kemper, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Veep
Tracee Ellis Ross, Black-ish
Lily Tomlin, Grace and Frankie
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Comedy Series
Louie Anderson, Baskets
Ty Burrell, Modern Family
Alec Baldwin, Saturday Night Live
Tituss Burgess, Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Tony Hale, Veep
Matt Walsh, Veep
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series
Vanessa Bayer, Saturday Night Live
Leslie Jones, Saturday Night Live
Kate McKinnon, Saturday Night Live
Kathryn Hahn, Transparent
Judith Light, Transparent
Anna Chlumsky, Veep
Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series
Riz Ahmed, Girls
Matthew Rhys, Girls
Dave Chappelle, Saturday Night Live
Lin-Manuel Miranda, Saturday Night Live
Tom Hanks, Saturday Night Live
Hugh Laurie, Veep
Outstanding Guest Actress in a Comedy Series
Wanda Sykes, Black-ish
Carrie Fisher, Catastrophe
Becky Ann Baker, Girls
Angela Bassett, Master of None
Kristen Wiig, Saturday Night Live
Melissa McCarthy, Saturday Night Live
Outstanding Directing for a Comedy Series
Donald Glover, Atlanta (“B.A.N.”)
Jamie Babbit, Silicon Valley (“Intellectual Property”)
Mike Judge, Silicon Valley (“Server Error”)
Morgan Sackett, Veep (“Blurb”)
David Mandel, Veep (“Groundbreaking”)
Dale Stern, Veep (“Justice”)
Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series
Donald Glover, Atlanta (“B.A.N.”)
Stephen Glover, Atlanta (“Streets on Lock”)
Aziz Ansari, Lena Waithe, Master of None (“Thanksgiving”)
Alec Berg, Silicon Valley (“Success Failure”)
Billy Kimball, Veep (“Georgia”)
David Mandel, Veep (“Groundbreaking”)
Outstanding Limited Series
Big Little Lies
Fargo
Feud: Bette and Joan
Genius
The Night Of
Outstanding Television Movie
Black Mirror (“San Junipero”)Dolly Parton’s Christmas of Many Colors: Circle of LoveThe Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks
Sherlock (“The Lying Detective”)The Wizard of Lies
Outstanding Actor in a Miniseries
Riz Ahmed, The Night Of
Benedict Cumberbatch, Sherlock
Robert De Niro, The Wizard of Lies
Ewan McGregor, Fargo
Geoffrey Rush, Genius
John Turturro, The Night Of
Outstanding Actress in a Miniseries
Carrie Coon, Fargo
Felicity Huffman, American Crime
Nicole Kidman, Big Little Lies
Jessica Lange, Feud: Bette and Joan
Susan Sarandon, Feud: Bette and Joan
Reese Witherspoon, Big Little Lies
Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries
Alexander Skarsgard, Big Little Lies
David Thewlis, Fargo
Alfred Molina, Feud: Bette and Joan
Stanley Tucci, Feud: Bette and Joan
Bill Camp, The Night Of
Michael Kenneth Williams, The Night Of
Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Miniseries
Regina King, American Crime
Laura Dern, Big Little Lies
Shailene Woodley, Big Little Lies
Judy Davis, Feud: Bette and Joan
Jackie Hoffman, Feud: Bette and Joan
Michelle Pfeiffer, The Wizard of Lies
Outstanding Directing for a Miniseries/Movie
Jean-Marc Vallee, Big Little Lies 
Noah Hawley, Fargo (“The Law of Vacant Places”)
Ryan Murphy, Feud: Bette and Joan (“And the Winner Is”)
Ron Howard, Genius (“Chapter One”)
James Marsh, The Night Of (“The Art of War”)
Steven Zaillian, The Night Of (“The Beach”)
Outstanding Writing for a Miniseries/Movie
David E. Kelley, Big Little Lies
Charlie Brooker, Black Mirror (“San Junipero”)
Noah Hawley, Fargo (“The Law of Vacant Places”)
Ryan Murphy, Feud: Bette and Joan (“And the Winner Is”)
Jaffe Cohen, Michael Zam, Ryan Murphy, Feud: Bette and Joan (“Pilot”)
Richard Price, Steven Zaillian, The Night Of (“The Call of the Wild”)
Outstanding Reality Competition Program
Amazing Race
American Ninja Warrior
Project Runway
RuPaul’s Drag Race
Top Chef
The Voice
Outstanding Host for a Reality Competition Program
Snoop Dogg, Martha & Snoop’s Potluck Dinner
Gordon Ramsay, MasterChef Junior
Alec Baldwin, Match Game
Heidi Klum and Tim Gunn, Project Runway
RuPaul Charles, RuPaul’s Drag Race
W. Kamau Bell, United Shades of America
Outstanding Variety Talk Series
Full Frontal with Samantha Bee
Jimmy Kimmel Live
Last Week Tonight with John Oliver
The Late Late Show with James Corden
The Late Show with Stephen Colbert
Real Time with Bill Maher
Outstanding Variety Sketch Series
Billy on the Street
Documentary Now!
Drunk History
Portlandia
Saturday Night Live
Tracey Ullman’s Show
It’s best to know as little as possible about Lady Macbeth going in. It took me utterly by surprise—a costume drama unafraid of exploring the oppression and brutality at the heart of its genre, featuring a star turn from a largely unknown actress. Though filled with compassion for its heroine, the film is nonetheless deeply macabre, methodically building up to every menacing story twist and yet managing to make each land like a gut-punch. The only thing that’s important to note going in is that this is no Shakespeare adaptation.
William Oldroyd’s film (which was scripted by Alice Birch, with both making their feature debuts) is in fact a retelling of Nikolai Leskov’s 1865 novella Lady Macbeth of Mtsensk, which was subsequently turned into a 1934 opera by Dmitri Shostakovich. Oldroyd and Birch have made significant changes to their source material, first of all by transposing the action to rural England. But the thrust of the story remains the same and is indeed indebted to Shakespeare’s famed anti-heroine’s slow, grimly determined journey into villainy.
Downton Abbey’s Quiet Revolution
Katherine (Florence Pugh, in only her second film appearance after her role in the British indie The Falling) is a new bride to a local lord, an older man named Alexander (Paul Hilton). In the film’s nearly wordless opening minutes, Oldroyd’s static camera looks on impassively as Katherine’s spirit is quickly deadened. Alexander is much older than her and seems completely uninterested in fulfilling his marital duties, only taking a bride to satisfy his imperious father Boris (Christopher Fairbank). Quickly enough, both men leave the estate, commanding Katherine to remain inside its sparsely furnished rooms lest she catch a cold outdoors.
Oldroyd pays close attention to the bleakness of the environment and the total lack of concern everyone displays in Katherine’s mental well-being. There’s barely any plot at all for a while, just quiet, considered shots of Pugh’s face taking everything in. But then, well, things certainly begin to happen. Katherine’s relationships with the manor’s servants, including the shy Anna (Naomi Ackie) and the ruggedly handsome Sebastian (Cosmo Jarvis), begin to evolve in interesting ways, while her marriage to Alexander, who eventually returns, is brought to a sudden and shocking halt.
Much of the darkness that follows—and be warned, Lady Macbeth is very dark indeed (not so much in terms of graphic content, but just the tragic story arc)—rests on Pugh’s shoulders. I had never heard of her, but there’s no question this film marks the emergence of a major talent, the kind of intense screen presence that seems ripped from a 1930s costume drama. She believably portrays Katherine’s transformation from innocent bride to calculating lady of the house to something much more disturbing—without her, the movie would feel ludicrously melodramatic.
But Oldroyd and Birch are also working to make more unusual points about the stuffy genre they’re within. This isn’t just a tale of Alexander and Boris stifling a young woman until she snaps. Almost all of the house’s servants are played by actors of color, unusual for a British period drama, and so much of the chaos that ensues in Lady Macbeth ends up disrupting their lives. Though the story is about Katherine, the film is careful to depict the wider consequences of her actions, keeping Lady Macbeth from being too simple a narrative of a mistreated bride overthrowing her patriarchal tormentors.
Which gets to what I found fascinating most about Lady Macbeth: Oldroyd has obvious sympathy for his subject, even as she commits unforgivable acts, but that doesn’t mean the film is arguing for Katherine. It’s interested in trying to understand an antiquated class system that propped up so much unspoken violence, domestic abuse, and oppression, for so long. The novel and opera of Lady Macbeth have a moralizing bent to them, with an ending that suggests a more straightforward retribution for Katherine’s crimes. Oldroyd’s movie anticipates tragedy from the outset and follows it to a fitting (if horrifying) conclusion that’s burned into my memory—making Lady Macbeth one of the best, and most surprising, films of the year.
Chuck Blazer, the former FIFA executive whose revelations about corruption in soccer’s governing body led to charges against 14 current or former officials, as well as the ouster of Sepp Blatter, the group’s longtime president, has died. He was 72.
His death was announced Wednesday by his lawyers. He had been battling cancer.
“We are truly saddened by the passing of our client and friend, Chuck Blazer,” the lawyers said. “His misconduct, for which he accepted full responsibility, should not obscure Chuck’s positive impact on international soccer.”
Blazer, a U.S. citizen, headed the Confederation of North, Central America and Caribbean Association Football (CONCAAF), which governs soccer in the Western Hemisphere and spearheaded the efforts to popularize the game in North America. He served on FIFA’s executive committee from 1997-2013. This is the period where he is said to have received illegal funds in the form of commissions and fees.
As The New York Times notes: “He was said to have kept two apartments at Trump Tower in Manhattan, one for himself and the other mostly for his cats. Sometimes he carried a macaw on his shoulder.”
His failure to file tax returns from 2005 to 2010 to the Internal Revenue Service is what caught the attention of law-enforcement officials. That quickly ballooned into an investigation of corruption within FIFA. Blazer pleaded guilty in 2013 to corruption, money laundering, and tax evasion, related to the bidding process of the 1998 and 2010 World Cups. As a result, he was banned in 2015 for life from all soccer-related activities. But as part of a plea agreement, he agreed to cooperate with U.S. officials investigating corruption in soccer. His disclosures helped expose the rot within FIFA, which the organization is still working to address. It ultimately resulted in the ouster of Blatter, FIFA’s longtime president.
It’s unclear how his death will affect the U.S. investigation of corruption in FIFA. The Times adds that he is survived by Susan Blazer, his former wife; their two children; and several grandchildren.
It is necessary to note, from the start, that War for the Planet of the Apes is perhaps misleadingly titled. The third film in this retelling of one of Hollywood’s strangest franchises is not about a grand battle between man and super-ape, a showdown that began brewing in 2011’s Rise of the Planet of the Apes and exploded into all-out conflict in 2014’s Dawn of the Planet of the Apes. Instead, the writer and director Matt Reeves (returning after his sterling work with Dawn) has created a pseudo-Biblical epic shot through with apocalyptic fervor, a tale of the old world order dying out and being replaced with something different. Perhaps Exodus of the Apes would have suited better.
The “war,” after all, was lost by humans long ago, when the “simian flu” (the same super-virus that enhanced the apes’ intelligence) wiped out most of the planet’s population at the end of Rise. Reeves’s vision of the aftermath, in Dawn, was so surprising and effective because of how verdant the world looked—with human influence receding, nature became overgrown and lush, and forests reclaimed all of the pitiful manmade infrastructure. But War, set two years after Dawn, has a disheartening sameness to it and none of the visual jolt of Reeves’s last film.
Apes 2, Humans 0: Simians Rule Dawn of the Planet of the Apes
War for the Planet of the Apes is long—at 140 minutes, easily the longest Apes film ever—and meditative, stripping away relatable human characters to focus entirely on the hero Caesar (Andy Serkis, the king of motion-capture performance), the chimpanzee who leads a colony of apes in California’s redwood forests. That Reeves is presenting a big-budget summer blockbuster centered on CGI simians who largely communicate in sign language is still one of the most flabbergasting triumphs of the current blockbuster age; even more impressive is how naturally Caesar and his compatriots come across. As with Dawn, I never found myself yearning for the story to cut to flesh-and-blood actors. In fact, anytime it did, I found my mind wandering.
In War, though, Reeves doesn’t do enough to build on the major achievements of Dawn. That film was a parable of the toxicity of humanity and the corrupting power of guns—its main conflict broke out when the villainous, vengeful ape Koba (Toby Kebbell) found a cache of weapons. In War, the carnage is taken for granted and Caesar’s conflict is internal, as he wrestles with his own desire for payback (represented by taunting nightmares he has of Koba) versus the necessity of leading his colony to a newer, safer place far away from human threats.
Much of the action in War is framed around that personal struggle, charting Caesar’s mission to attack a particular colony of militant humans led by the unnamed Colonel (Woody Harrelson). It’s here that I began to lose the thread of whatever allegory Reeves is working with. The Colonel, surely named for Kurtz of Apocalypse Now (Harrelson is similarly bald and insane), is an uninteresting tyrant who has enslaved groups of apes to fortify his base in preparation for some final, mysterious conflict. Caesar’s need to destroy the Colonel feels reasonable, rather than like a reflection of his darkest demons.
Dawn gave more of an emotional grounding to the rift between Caesar (who had largely been treated kindly by human scientists in Rise) and Koba (who was essentially tortured into existence). In War, what remains of humanity is basically a plague waiting to be finally scrubbed away—a notion that doesn’t really make for good drama. The most compelling dynamic comes with the evolved apes who work for the Colonel, who are referred to as “donkeys” and exist as second-class citizens within his miserable militia.
Though the sight of these simian sonderkommandos is initially horrifying, Reeves doesn’t do much with them, and that whole sub-plot gets a pat resolution as the Colonel’s last stand draws to a bloody close. The film’s imagery is impressively bleak, but it’s in service of a disappointing retread of Dawn’s story. Caesar’s instincts as a leader remain more moral and humane than the species that created him, and the earth continues to thrive largely without the people who were previously helping to destroy it.
The strangest thing about Caesar’s heroism is that War continues to pay lip service to the Apes films of the ’60s and ’70s, placing itself in a kind of continuity with them. War introduces the idea that some humans, perhaps as a result of the simian flu, have lost the ability to speak, presaging the “primitive” humans present in Franklin J. Schaffner’s 1968 Planet of the Apes. One could still feasibly imagine a fourth film in this series where a human astronaut crash-lands on the planet and is horrified by what he finds—and yet the apes of Reeves’s film are far less tyrannical than the ones Charlton Heston met so long ago. Is Reeves looking to rewrite the history of the series he’s rebooted? Or is he tossing in these references to films past to suggest that harder times could lie ahead for Caesar’s society?
A little more ambiguity around those questions would go a long way, and would help justify what a miserable schlep War for the Planet of the Apes becomes: In Dawn, the story’s darkness made more sense because there were heroes and villains on both sides of the human-ape divide; in War, we’re just watching the final death throes of our own species. The technical craft of the film is as remarkable as its predecessor, down to the motion-capture effects that register every one of Serkis’s facial tics. But Reeves’s story ends up echoing a very old one—essentially, Moses leading his people out of bondage and into freedom—without weaving in any nuance. War for the Planet of the Apes is an epic, to be sure—but an epic slog.
Is there an architect who would turn down the chance to build a floating stadium? Or a spire on the moon? What sort of abode would you build for magical creatures who don’t need to eat, sleep, or go to the bathroom?
That’s what the background designers for Steven Universe ask themselves when constructing the show’s environments. Currently in its fifth season on Cartoon Network, the series revolves around a teenage boy named Steven who lives with three alien superheroes and fights alongside them to protect the Earth. A big part of its charm lies in the heightened attention it pays to backdrops; it uses architecture in delightful and highly innovative ways to advance the messages at its core: Recent episodes, for instance, show Steven and his friends navigating a strange mix of Earth and alien landscapes while pushing themselves to become braver and accepting what makes them different or imperfect.
'Wreck-It Ralph' Is a Sweet, Animated Tale About ... Urban Planning?
Steven’s companions, Garnet, Amethyst, and Pearl, especially exhibit these qualities. They’re sentient gemstones who can take humanoid form and summon personalized weapons. The amusing and familial interactions between Steven and the Gems, as well as the cuteness of the character designs and the futuristic alien technology, help to explain the show’s enthusiastic fan base: It’s beloved by kids and adults alike and has earned plaudits for its radical takes on gender roles, family dynamics, and diversity. Celebrity voice actors (Patti LuPone, Nicki Minaj) and original music (a soundtrack was released in June and quickly topped Billboard charts) add vibrancy from season to season.
But in many ways, the show’s built environments—one of the subjects of a new book, Steven Universe: Art & Origins—are the star. The setting of the show moves throughout the universe, eventually reaching the Gem Homeworld. Along the way, viewers might see anything from geodesic domes to disappearing sand castles to human zoo satellites. Many backgrounds are colored with unexpected, complementary palettes (pink sky, purple trees) and traced in outlines that are slightly off-registration and rough. The architecture is intricate and surprising, and it takes a lot of inspiration from video games. Eschewing styles that resemble watercolor or oil paintings, the show instead looks like something that could only be created on a computer, while maintaining elegance and subtlety. And far from being passive, the design assists in the storytelling: The two distinct kinds of architecture on Steven Universe—Gem and human—ingeniously double down on the show’s messages about coexistence and self-transformation.
* * *
The Gems that Steven lives with, called the Crystal Gems, are rebels who’ve fought to separate themselves from a vast space empire that serves as the show’s ongoing menace; they act as the Earth’s protectors against corrupted Gem monsters and Homeworld invaders. As a result of an earlier colonization attempt, there are Gem spires and temples hidden throughout Earth—a unique blend of Ancient Greek and Art Deco styles, they’re rich with ornamentation. The show’s crew had to carefully create structures both alien and aged; just as in the Star Wars prequel movies, these environments had to dazzle with sci-fi sparkle while seeming less advanced than their contemporary counterparts.
Luckily, they had magical alien technology for an assist. Gem buildings are able to defy gravity, creating very unusual tectonics—ways in which structural loads are carried and expressed. Steven, in his adventures, thus encounters floating platforms, impossibly twisted columns, and an upside-down pyramid.
Some of these architectural elements were thought up by Joe Johnston, a supervising director on the show. Steven Universe, like many animated shows, is storyboard-driven: Artists conceive the plot and write it as they go. This method might contribute to the strength of the backgrounds; instead of starting with a script, the ideas come from sketches.
That visual-centric storytelling is apparent in a sequence that Johnston storyboarded toward the end of Season 2, in which Steven and the Crystal Gems go to the moon for information about a weapon growing deep within the Earth. The Gem moonbase there is topped with what Johnston confirms is a geodesic dome, like those of the futurist architect Buckminster Fuller. “My dad is an engineer,” he says, laughing. “He’s always been the person in our family to point out interesting engineering things. That’s probably where that came from. I think I watched a PBS program on Buckminster Fuller at some point.”
Like Fuller, the Gems strived for utopian perfection. But also like Fuller, they never quite got there. Geodesic domes, initially designed as the ideal solution to a post-WWII housing shortage, never quite worked. They leaked and didn’t age well. As viewers learn over and over on the show, perfection—whether it’s Amethyst upset about her diminutive size or simply Steven’s friend Lars’s attempts to be an effortlessly cool teen—is impossible, and striving for it can come at a great cost. This recalls one of the show’s delightful mantras: “If every pork chop were perfect, we wouldn’t have hot dogs.”
But the Gems were aiming for flawlessness when they built their colony on Earth. Peridot, a newly recruited Crystal Gem, explains that what was actually erected was “maybe 5 percent of what was originally planned.” She shows a hologram of Earth that’s been completely hollowed-out—a husk of a planet covered with Gem spires and temples. Garnet states the obvious: “Completing this colony would have meant the extinction of all life on earth.”
* * *
In contrast with the precision sought by the Gems, the human-built structures on the show are about change and growth, warts and all. “It’s real,” says Steven Sugar, the show’s lead background designer and brother of the series creator Rebecca Sugar. (He’s also the inspiration for the title character.) “There are wires, and pipes, and signs, and cracks in the sidewalks and that kind of thing. So it feels worn and it feels imperfect in a way that’s relatable.”
Beach City, the show’s primary locale, for example, is inspired by the three Delaware beaches that the siblings grew up going to. According to Steven Sugar, its look came together after multiple research trips during preproduction. It wasn’t enough to just copy the basics of any beach town. “One of my goals while working on these backgrounds has always been to really capture what makes those buildings look like that part of the East Coast,” he says. “There were certain things we tried to always fall back to, like the look of the trees and that kind of stuff. We always wanted to make sure that the sun was rising over the ocean in the East.”
Beyond the attention to detail, the town’s landscape reveals an internal logic that persists throughout the show. The viewer gets a good sense of what kind of place Beach City is: It’s perhaps more welcome-feeling and small-towny than the real-life spots it’s based on, but then again, it gets attacked by aliens a lot. The name of a blog on the show, Keep Beach City Weird (cribbed from the Austin slogan), feels right.
For the architectural centerpiece of the show, the creators went to a friend’s beach house, took reference photos, and studied them closely to create Steven’s home and the entrance to the Crystal Gems’ temple, a statue of a giant stone woman carved into a hillside. The result is a headquarters for the team and a domicile for Steven, who despite being part-Gem, needs to eat and sleep. The space is often flooded with light from three directions. All the shelving and seating are what Frank Lloyd Wright called “built-ins,” and the split-level roof is partly supported by a suspension system, opening the space below it by removing the need for columns. And it really is open: The various domains of the room overlap, including Steven’s lofted sleeping area. If he ever gets cold, Steven can use his version of a classic 1960s Malm fireplace.
The mid-century architects who first built homes like this were changing the idea of the “house” and its function. Le Corbusier wrote in 1927 that “a house is a machine for living in.” This idea, that a home should be built in accordance with the things you want to do in it, as opposed to just being a variation of the ideal house design, was a new concept. On Steven Universe, the house functions, just as Steven himself does, to integrate humans and Gems. Many episodes begin inside it or on the beach in front of it, and that’s where we see the main characters struggle with their self-images and evolving roles. In an extended version of the show’s theme song made for the web, viewers learn that the Crystal Gems and Greg, Steven’s dad, built the space when Steven was ready to come live with the Gems: The alien warriors, each thousands of years old, adjusted their lives to raise a little boy. The house—in all its hybridity, whether as a staging ground for Gem fights or familial meeting place—facilitates its inhabitants’ development throughout the show.
Meaningful change is thus at the heart of Steven Universe’s ongoing message to its audience. On the Gem Homeworld, each Gem has one purpose according to type (Zircons are lawyers, Rubies are fighters) and carries that out for thousands of years. Earth is the one place in the universe where Gems can decide to become something besides what they are expected to be. For the Crystal Gems in Beach City, that has meant becoming a family.
* * *
Earth, it turns out, has changed the Gem empire as well. After a protracted war with Earth, the Gems’ resources are so drained that society—and even its architecture—has been transformed. The new style can be seen on Homeworld in recent episodes of Season 5. The geometric filigree and murals seen in earlier seasons have been simplified; modern Gem ships and space stations are fully wrapped in geometric patterns, not unlike the “Bird’s Nest” stadium built for the 2008 Beijing Olympics.
Once baroque, the buildings have become brightly colored and brutalist, seemingly taking cues from biology for its fully integrated systems. According to Steven Sugar, the backgrounds team looked at circulatory systems for clues on how to portray the fully Gem planet. “I’ve always aimed to make it feel very perfect,” he says. “Sort of eerily perfect in contrast to the human world, where everything needs to have that element of loving grossness.”
That eeriness Sugar describes pervades the Homeworld scenes. These physically imposing spaces lack the safety of Beach City and give off the feeling that something could really go wrong. This feels like new territory for the show, physically and emotionally. But over the course of more than 132 episodes, the idea of change—of evolving personalities and relationships—has become familiar for the show and those who work on it. Sugar noticed this when reviewing material for the Steven Universe book. “We got to, all together, as a crew, look back at the preproduction art and the early episodes, at how the show has grown,” he says. “And growth has always been a big underlying thing with the aesthetics.” The resulting book is jam-packed with process and development sketches that fans are sure to love.
In the second episode of the current season, Steven and his friend Lars make their escape from the Gem rulers trying to destroy them and blast away in a stolen vehicle. As they get their first glimpses of Homeworld, viewers see it too: bold, vibrant colors with a heavy dose of black. Surfaces are coated with semi-transparent layers and there are structures we’ve never seen anything like before. Yellow Diamond, one of the show’s Big Bads, shouts after them: “You stood your ground on that little speck called Earth, but you’re on our world now.” It’s a moment that makes clear that even after so many episodes, there’s plenty of the show’s universe still to be discovered. Yes, there will be lovable characters, undeniable earworms, and mesmerizing space drama, but there are also sure to be built environments that make the show seem real, and special.
In a time when you can explore all corners of the globe on your laptop, and find much of the information you’ll ever need on your phone, romantic notions of discovery are hurting, to say the least. Not so during the heyday of the New York Zoological Society’s Department of Tropical Research (DTR). From 1916 to 1964, this quirky, intrepid bunch of men and women, led by the famed American scientist William Beebe, explored the jungles and oceans of the West Indies and Latin America, collecting, identifying, and documenting new species in scattered on-site field stations.
Working alongside these researchers was Beebe’s team of artists, who created incredible pencil, ink, and watercolor renderings of the specimens that were later introduced to a rapt public. In the absence of suitable photographic technologies, painters and illustrators had long accompanied scientific teams on their missions. The difference with the DTR was that its leader, Beebe—a bestselling author and star in his own right who was a good friend of well-known performers, politicians, and tycoons—wanted his work to reach beyond the academy. It helped that his team was unveiling organisms, particularly those in the deep seas, that had never before been seen by man.
The Algorithms Behind Moana’s Gorgeously Animated Ocean
The designers’ mesmerizing illustrations, and their impact on popular culture then and now, is the focus of the Drawing Center’s exhibition Exploratory Works: Drawings from the Department of Tropical Research Field Expeditions, which ends this month. DTR illustrators—some of whom were also scientists—would perch in tropical forests with drawing papers in their laps or even strap zinc tablets to their swimsuits to sketch sea creatures. Some would make tiny specimens in jars come to outsized life, while others would paint in real time as Beebe and his colleagues recounted what they saw from hundreds of feet under the water.
In the Drawing Center’s galleries, you become an explorer of the DTR’s precise but fantastical depictions of highly expressive land and marine creatures. The anthropomorphism often reaches humorous and occasionally terrifying levels, the kind that’s everywhere in popular culture now, from animated features like Moana to TV shows like BoJack Horseman and Rick and Morty to toys like the Jurassic World Lego set.  
Many of the DTR’s creations would be at home in a sci-fi summer blockbuster, transcending the pompous-seeming gravity of the scientific establishment as Beebe wished. The DTR artist Isabel Cooper’s bright watercolor Green Parrot Fish (Noma Expedition, 1923) wears a vain look, seemingly proud of its psychedelic complexion, which dissolves into gradients of watermelon pink, algae green, sea blue, and neon yellow. To its left in the exhibition, Cooper’s shy, crooked-smiled, and slightly plump Moray Eel (Arcturus Expedition, 1925) sits timidly next to Else Bostelmann’s frighteningly toothy Saber-toothed Viper Fish (Bermuda, 1934), its eyes glowing against a stark black background.
The sea monsters continue throughout Exploratory Works, from mammoth-lipped species that resemble dogs to a radiant-orange giant squid, arching forward to find its prey. Bostelmann’s motley array of cuddly and creepy deep-sea creatures in her watercolor, Big Bad Wolves of an Abyssal Chamber of Horrors (1934), might make you laugh and cringe at once: They’re all staring straight at the viewer, as if their noses are pressed up against glass.
On the other side of the room, which is dedicated to birds, insects, and land animals, you come face to face with George Swanson’s Big-Eyed Climbing Snake (Venezuela, 1945), a somewhat befuddled-looking entity, and Cooper’s Margay Tigrina Vigens, (British Guiana, 1925), a watercolor tiger of earthy orange tones who appears paused in deep thought.
* * *
Particularly in the underwater work, it’s hard to believe these images—further enlivened by the DTR’s animated black-and-white movies of fanged fish, vapor-shooting shrimp, and transforming tadpoles—were real. Many other scientists of the day were similarly suspicious of the creatures’ authenticity. The DTR artists’ theatrical portrayal of these (very real) exotic animals and their environments rippled through the popular and creative consciousness in the early 20th century. Of course, so too did the unprecedented deep-sea dives themselves, which gripped the country the way the space program would a generation later.
The DTR’s eerie fever dreams channeled America’s sense of exhilaration and wonder about charting the unknown in a time of rapid change. Salvador Dalí’s Dream of Venus pavilion at the 1939 New York World’s Fair was set in the deep sea. The exhibit featured a diving vehicle that was a dead ringer for the DTR’s “Bathysphere,” a heavy metallic contraption devised by the engineer (and fledgling filmmaker) Otis Barton that would usher scientists to new ocean depths. Another booth was shaped like a coral reef, populated by skimpily dressed mermaids, diving past typically surreal landscapes.
Another legendary inventor of alternative realities, Walt Disney, was friends with Beebe and visited one of the DTR’s field stations, known as Simla, in Trinidad. It’s not hard to draw comparisons between the work DTR was doing and Disney’s animated visions, which were still in their infancy at the time. One of Disney’s first features, Fantasia (1940), latched onto the magical sense of unexplored realms coming alive, with its anthropomorphic mushrooms, broomsticks, undersea creatures. In the film’s “Nutcracker Suite” sequence, colorful marine life with huge eyes and pronounced lips swirl through the water balletically. Their exaggerated human-like traits and the dreamlike whimsy of deep-sea terrains all echo the DTR’s artistic output.
A symbol of his era’s appetite for adventure and discovery, Beebe became an Indiana Jones-type celebrity, rivaling revered explorers like Charles Lindbergh and Auguste Piccard. Barton’s Titans of the Deep (1938), an over-the-top semi-documentary, semi-feature about Beebe’s dives off the coast of Bermuda, stars Beebe himself. Beebe’s dozen-plus books about his trips were also wildly popular, with many reaching the New York Times Bestseller list. Beebe’s public profile got a boost from his regular bylines in outlets such as National Geographic, Harper’s, McCall’s, The New York Times, Scribner’s, and Ladies’ Home Journal.
On the flip side, Beebe’s discoveries also paralleled his contemporaries’ fears about the rapidly modernizing and globalizing world of the 20th century, namely threats of economic implosion, nuclear annihilation, and societal upheaval. The former DTR members Ernest B. Schoedsack (nicknamed “Shorty,” he documented many of the group’s outings on film) and Ruth Rose (a historian) went on to make 1933’s King Kong. The film captured the horrors of the unfamiliar, and the futility of trying to control the natural domain. Kong—with his human eyes, portraying all manner of emotion—is pulled from his home and eventually terrorizes that most modern of cities, New York. It’s clear that the time Schoedsack and Rose spent with Beebe influenced their work, from the depiction of a doomed, DTR-esque expedition that unleashes Kong to the simultaneously playful and frightening view of nature that painters like Bostelmann tapped into.
According to one of Exploratory Works’ curators, Katherine McLeod, the characters in the sci-fi movie The Beast From 20,000 Fathoms (1953) were based on Beebe and his assistant, Gloria Hollister. That movie’s trailer flashes sensational questions: “Are We Delving Into Mysteries We Weren’t Meant to Know?” and “Will Science Unleash The Fearsome Forces of Lost Worlds?” Just a year later came Disney’s Jules Verne adaptation 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea, a live-action foray in which the crew comes into close contact with elephant-sized monsters of the deep, like (once again) that camera-ready giant squid. The DTR’s kaleidoscope of humanized sea and land animals could easily be inserted into more contemporary films like Disney’s Zootopia (2016), Wes Anderson’s The Life Aquatic With Steve Zissou (2004), and Pixar’s Finding Nemo (2003) and Finding Dory (2016). (With his hapless expression and fiery red coloring, Finding Dory’s octopus Hank seems like a cousin to at least one DTR squid.) Indeed, the DTR artists’ visual language of naturalistic strangeness will forever be a gift to creators of weird realms.
In a darker sense, Exploratory Works’ exquisite visual portrayals and the DTR’s pop-cultural legacy obscure the at-times violent nature of specimen collection, and the unintended access that scientific explorers often gave to multinational corporations and others in virgin territory. The exhibition also offers a bittersweet reminder that the kind of “sustained and close relationship between artists and scientists” exemplified by the DTR barely exists today, says another exhibition curator, Madeleine Thompson.
Yes, artists still work with researchers on their own projects, and award-winning television series like Nova and Planet Earth suggest pop culture and natural science continue to be an easy match. But the DTR stands apart: The team’s illustrators, along with the innovative culture of collaboration that Beebe fostered, keenly shaped the group’s researchers, generating a fluid, complementary creativity. The DTR’s definition of “valid” scientific pursuits was inevitably widened through the perspective of its artists, whose work remains as fresh, enigmatic, and quietly influential today as it did 100 years ago.
My first attempt at joining the carnage of PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds—a smash-hit new video game that pits 100 users against each other in a spare, bloody deathmatch—was as surreal as you might imagine. Like every other online player, I parachuted onto a gigantic island, unarmed, ready to search for weapons and gear with which to exterminate my 99 competitors. I immediately came across a one-room building that resembled a concrete rhombus and started toward it before being confronted with a fairly typical sight for this game: another player, toting a machine gun, heading straight for me.
Still unarmed, I dashed around him and into the building, hoping to find something to defend myself with, but inside I found ... a T-shirt. My opponent marched in behind me and, over his microphone, intoned what would become the last words my poor cyber-avatar would ever hear: “Hey, what’s up, bro.” I scrambled around his ankles, trying to get past him. “If you don't talk, I’m gonna have to kill you,” he explained, giving me an opportunity to plead for my life. (My microphone was, sadly, not plugged in.) He shot me in the back. “Warned ya. Shoulda had a mic,” he mused, as my screen went gray.
Firewatch and the Addictiveness of Lonely Video Games
Minus the discussion of microphone etiquette, that’s pretty much exactly how I imagine my life would end if I were placed into a real-life battle royale—rapidly and foolishly. I probably wouldn’t even survive the parachuting, to be honest. So why, after such a pointless experience, did I immediately reload another go-round of Battlegrounds to try my luck at surviving longer in this miserable environment? More importantly, why has Battlegrounds, a video game that is still in beta testing (it won’t be officially released until later this year), sold more than 4 million copies in three months, even faster than the previous PC phenomenon Minecraft (whose beta version took nearly a year to sell 4 million copies)?
Much as with Minecraft, the initial sense of simplicity is key. But unlike Minecraft, there aren’t hidden, byzantine depths to PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds. Yes, there are particular weapons and pieces of armor to hunt for, vehicles to drive around, and tactical decisions to be made about the relative value of running to built-up locations (which contain more gear, but will draw in more competitors) versus hunkering down in remote spots. But in Battlegrounds, there is always a ticking clock to contend with, from the moment you parachute down. A hundred players enter, but the last person standing is the winner. As the game goes on, the map begins to shrink, forcing you to confront each other. There is no time for nuance.
The blunt-force apocalypse of this game is what it makes it so easy to pronounce it uniquely suited to this unsubtle moment in culture. Deathmatch games like Counter-Strike and Call of Duty have long been popular among online players, but there’s something particularly grim about Battlegrounds. Your avatar is just a person wearing a T-shirt and khakis, rather than a soldier prowling through a war zone. The landscape is hauntingly nonspecific, just a bunch of empty towns, neighborhoods, and industrial zones filled with weapons and resources. And, perhaps most unnerving of all, there’s no music—the only sound is the pop of bullet fire, which is often the last thing you hear before the game ends.
Still, I kept playing, eager to advance and not just be one of the first to perish on every attempt. There’s a little counter in the top right-hand corner of the screen, slowly moving down from 100, and every new death is announced like you’re in The Hunger Games. The more I played, and the longer I lasted, the more I was struck by the lunatic calm of the experience. Attacking another player, or going anywhere near the more populated areas, was a risk only taken with careful preparation. Most of my playing time saw me scrounging around on the outskirts and fleeing at the first sign of trouble. In my best run (in which I came fifth), I spent most of the game hiding out in an abandoned tower block, gun trained at a door, waiting for some poor soul to open it.
In a strange way, then, PlayerUnknown’s Battlegrounds belongs to the category of virally popular indie games like Firewatch, No Man’s Sky, and Gone Home—games that are light on action and heavy on atmosphere. Battlegrounds is unlike any other shooter I’d played in that it entirely relies on tension—there’s nothing particularly impressive or interesting about the action itself. There’s only waiting, coupled with the gloomy mortality.
The lead designer Brendan Greene (also known as PlayerUnknown) created the game to mimic the Japanese cult film Battle Royale, a goofily disturbing meditation on man’s inhumanity. There’s no better indication that he’s succeeded than in the opening minutes of every showdown, in which all the players are gathered on the airplane they will soon parachute out of, and everyone is free to talk to each other. Loose alliances are sometimes formed, or meeting places set, but the straightforward premise of the game underlines the horror of it all. Even if you work together, at some point, you’re going to turn on each other—it’s just a matter of who shoots first.
The question, “What if William Shakespeare were actually really good looking?” has already been definitively answered by the Oscar-winning 1998 movie Shakespeare in Love. So Will, debuting on TNT Monday night, goes a few steps further. What if Shakespeare were actually really good looking and a secret Catholic spy and a prototypical glam-rock icon and suffering from PTSD sparked by watching his uncle get publicly disemboweled? And what if all this were happening in a kind of hallucinogenic steampunk Baz Luhrmann fever dream of 16th-century London, where tattooed tavern wenches have fuchsia dreadlocks and revelers break into renditions of Lou Reed’s “Perfect Day”?
There’s a lot going on. And yet all the excess and frenetic energy can’t carry a plot that gets totally lost in a secondary storyline about the Reformation, and how the Protestant enforcer Richard Topcliffe (played in weaselly style here by Trainspotting’s Ewen Bremner) hunted and tortured Catholics. Will is created by Craig Pearce, a Luhrmann collaborator who co-wrote Romeo + Juliet, Moulin Rouge!, and The Great Gatsby with the director. Many of Luhrmann’s hallmarks—vibrant, gaudy color; huge theatrical setpieces; anachronistic music—give the 10-part series a distinctive sense of style. Crucially, though, Will doesn’t seem that interested in Shakespeare as a playwright. And the resulting attempts to shoehorn him into other roles—sultry lover, newly minted celebrity, reluctant renegade—make for a frequently befuddling viewing experience.
Taboo: A Grim, Gruesome Costume Drama Starring Tom Hardy
In the first episode, Will (played earnestly by the newcomer Laurie Davidson) is a glove-maker who abandons his wife and three children in Stratford-upon-Avon to seek his fortune as a playwright. The city he arrives in, in that most well-worn of overwhelmed-country-mouse TV tropes, is London by way of Pirates of the Caribbean: green-screened and teeming with vice. There are pickpockets, eels, public acts of dentistry, an aggressive neon color palette, and even an errant camel. Master Shakespeare, completely out of his league, is preyed upon by a young street urchin (Lukas Rolfe), who filches not only his victim’s purse, but also a damning letter outing Will as a Catholic.
The facts about Shakespeare’s life are so nebulous that it’s justifiable for Pearce to take liberties with his biography. But the religious-conflict subplot isn’t just tedious—it also feels like a transparent attempt to inject some Game of Thrones–style ritualized violence and sadism into the proceedings. Far more entertaining are the scenes where Will, almost by chance, finds his new tribe at a theater run by James Burbage (Colm Meaney). These include Burbage’s children, Richard (Mattias Inwood), a preening actor, and Alice (Olivia DeJonge), who helps Will structure and transcribe his plays, and whose winsome charm helps him move on ever faster from the family he’s left behind.
There’s also Christopher Marlowe, requisite in any Shakespeare biopic, interpreted here by Jamie Campbell Bower as a Marc Bolan-esque idol who treats his writer’s block with orgies in which he’s tended to by fleets of naked male models. Marlowe is Will’s escort into the depraved underbelly of Elizabethan London, and the silliest scenes in the show—namely an opium-fueled bacchanal hosted by Sir Francis Bacon, introduced as “our host, a notorious sodomite.” Bower has the cheekbones and the disdain to pull off the character, but his flagrant, animalistic appetites leave Davidson’s Will seeming rather dreary by comparison, wide-eyed and cribbing all his best future lines from things people say at parties. These insta-quotes about brave new worlds and the play being the thing pop up frequently, but they can’t elevate the rest of the script, which is filled with insipidness. Catholic tracts, Will is told, must penetrate their readers’ souls like “a bullet shot from the deadly level of a gun,” but only when they’re not thawing people’s hearts “like spring thaws a mighty river.”
The odd thing is that when Will focuses on its hero’s artistic process, it’s not bad at all. A makeshift rap battle in the first episode, performed in iambic pentameter, seems inspired by Hamilton but allows the show to tap into its main character’s most interesting qualities. Perhaps, in declining to focus much on how Shakespeare’s plays were born, the show wanted to avoid being too similar to Shakespeare in Love, although the scenes of inky black pens scratching on parchment and fevered trysts beneath the stage imply not. Will can be forgiven for reinventing the greatest playwright in history as a dope-smoking, glam-rock superstar. But not, unfortunately, for relegating his unquestionable genius to an auxiliary plotline.
The Major League Baseball season reaches its unofficial midpoint with Tuesday night’s All-Star game, and the story of the year, so far, is Aaron Judge. As the New York Yankees’ rookie right-fielder, Judge has produced jaw-slackening moments with such regularity that it’s hard to single one out, but a good example came on June 11, when the Yankees hosted the Baltimore Orioles in the Bronx.
The game before, Judge had hit his league-leading 19th home run of the season, and that day he padded his total even further. In the sixth inning, he sent an inside pitch soaring 495 feet over the left-field wall, the longest shot by any player this year. An inning later, the Orioles’ mop-up reliever—the Yankees led 12-3 at this point—pitched Judge cautiously, keeping the ball on the far edge of the plate, but Judge reached out and lashed another homer to right.
In the absence of a close game, the thrill of the afternoon was in seeing him lay out the exact dimensions of his talents. Types and locations of pitches didn’t matter. Once Judge’s bat met them, they all ended up far, far away. “He is putting on the most amazing display I think I have ever seen!” claimed John Sterling, who has witnessed five World Series championships in his 28 years calling New York games.
Francisco Lindor Is Baseball’s Future
At 25 years old, on a young Yankees team that has surprised with its ahead-of-schedule relevance, Judge is a rare combination of rookie and MVP candidate. He may also be baseball’s biggest star. He led the American League in All-Star fan votes, he’ll headline Monday’s Home Run Derby, and a section of Yankee Stadium bleachers has been recommissioned as “Judge’s Chambers,” where devotees dress in robes and wave gavels. His statistics, impressive as they are—30 home runs, the highest slugging percentage and wins above replacement in the Majors—make up only part of his appeal, the main draw being the sheer scale of his presence on the field.
Judge would be large by NBA or NFL standards, but within the context of his chosen sport he is a titan. At six feet seven inches tall and 282 pounds, everything he does is outsized. He stands statue-still at the plate and, when he gets a pitch he likes, sweeps his bat to it, sending it zooming skyward faster and farther than anyone else. If he were a video game creation, Judge’s “power” attribute would be slid all the way up to 99—his uniform number, incidentally.
Judge not only sets this season’s standards, but he also exemplifies its trends. Across baseball, 2017 has been a festival of homers. They are being hit at a higher rate than at any point in history, and the methods for appreciating them have evolved in kind. MLB’s data-compiling program Statcast now measures “launch angle” and “exit velocity,” metrics that look favorably on Judge, who already owns the three of the four hardest-hit home runs since tracking began in 2015. For a sport always trying to court younger fans, the combination of deep shots and Statcast data is highly internet-friendly, and the Yankee outfielder testifies to their star-making potential. Judge goes yard, MLB tweets out a video replete with figures—“the first player to have SIX homers recorded at 115+ mph in a season”—and his jersey sales climb.
However much it yearns for shareable stars, though, baseball retains a temperate streak, so the question that follows Judge is the one that has been asked of every upstart rookie since their accomplishments were shared solely by newspaper and radio: Can it last? So far, the counterstrategies usually deployed on young sluggers—pitch them inside, throw breaking balls out of the strike zone—haven’t quieted him, but his season to this point has the feeling of a sunny first act, with some requisite trouble still to come. His size and the big swing that comes with it, so useful now, may yet need some adjusting as pitchers test for weakness.
A similar uncertainty tails the home-run boom in general, and a minor industry has grown around hypothesizing about its causes and staying power. The story du jour is that, following a fallow period for offense, MLB fiddled with the baseballs to help them fly farther; “Are Juiced Balls the New Steroids?” a recent FiveThirtyEight article asked. A parallel theory holds that players are using the new analytics at their disposal, varying launch angles to loft pitches in the air. Each explanation makes room for an eventual reversion to historic norms. The equipment could return to old standards, and those uppercutting batters might overdo it.
In the meantime, though, the high-octane show goes on, with a rookie who looks like his own monument at its center. If the talk among baseball obsessives has turned to how the home-run explosions of player and league alike will resolve themselves, the common fan’s perspective still centers on the plain awesomeness of them. On the Fourth of July, the Yankees played the Toronto Blue Jays and lost, 4-1. The one run they managed came when Judge scalded a line-drive homer to center. The headline of an article featured on ESPN.com’s main page that afternoon didn’t bother mentioning the outcome; it read, “Aaron Judge dents door casement at Yankee Stadium with 28th HR.” Such is the rookie’s appeal. When he puts a ball in the air, everything else—the score of the game, the league standings, the underlying causes of the sport’s broader trends—matters less than seeing where it finally lands.
Over the last decade, Hollywood has tried to come up with new fixes for a fundamental problem: Fewer people are going to the movies, with actual ticket sales last year at their lowest since the 1920s. There are a lot of ways for studios, and theaters, to cover for that revenue loss—raising ticket prices, serving food to customers at their seats, offering more comfortable armchairs for a premium. One nightmarishly synergistic strategy is a pivot to toys, recently announced by Warner Bros., which will try to further capitalize on the marketing potential of all its family films.
But the biggest, and most successful, bet in the last 10 years was made on 3-D movies—reviving a gimmick from Hollywood’s golden age, with the help of new technology that was pioneered for James Cameron’s 2009 smash hit Avatar. But even that approach is beginning to falter. Despite an increase in 3-D releases, the box-office market for that particular upcharge is falling as 3-D has gone from being a special experience to a perfunctory feature for every blockbuster. But this summer brings another potential savior from cinema’s yesteryear—the wide release of the director Christopher Nolan’s film Dunkirk on 70-millimeter film.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem
Nolan, Hollywood’s preeminent king of the widescreen epic, has long experimented with photographing his films in the biggest formats possible. Beginning with The Dark Knight in 2008, Nolan has used IMAX cameras to shoot certain sequences in each of his following movies (except for Inception), harnessing the much larger film stock used to capture vistas of Mount Everest or NASA space missions for set pieces like The Joker’s bank robbery in The Dark Knight or Bane’s plane heist in The Dark Knight Rises.
The Dark Knight contained 28 minutes of IMAX footage; The Dark Knight Rises had more than an hour, as did Nolan’s 2014 sci-fi epic Interstellar. Dunkirk, which runs 106 minutes, was entirely shot on large-format film and will be released in 70-mm projection in 125 theaters around the country—the biggest such release in decades. It’s a major gamble on an old-fashioned way of shooting and projecting movies, one that was standard for epics like Lawrence of Arabia but has long since passed into near-oblivion as theaters transferred to digital-projection formats.
The debate over the relative value of showing celluloid vs. digital rages on. Nolan has been a clear advocate for the art of film projection and has used his considerable box-office clout to try and keep it alive. His gambit with Dunkirk is the latest, and most prominent, example of that—and there’s some evidence it might work. Interstellar grossed a significant chunk of its box-office total in IMAX theaters. Dunkirk can similarly charge more for 70-mm showings, promising a more thrilling theatrical experience for viewers, without the irritating downsides of 3-D—no glasses required, no action scenes suddenly becoming blurry or out-of-focus, no headaches for people who already wear glasses.
The main problem is that 70-mm projection is expensive, and getting cinemas to come around to expensive technology can be difficult. It took the major success of Avatar for theaters to start installing plenty of 3-D projection. In 2015, The Weinstein Company rolled out Quentin Tarantino’s The Hateful Eight with limited 70-mm screenings around the country, costing theaters a reported $8-$10 million to upgrade projection equipment. Though the move attracted publicity (and $54 million in domestic box office), and The Hateful Eight was gorgeously photographed, the film ended up being an odd choice to try and push the format, since the movie mostly takes place inside one large room and is more of a chamber piece than an action epic.
Dunkirk, a World War II film chock-full of aerial battle sequences and daring naval rescues, is much better suited. And if audiences bite, it could be the beginning of a real revival for the format. So far, 70 mm has remained the domain of the auteur; Nolan, Tarantino, and Paul Thomas Anderson (who filmed The Master in 70 mm) have been the only ones to recently embrace it. But there’s no reason it couldn’t become the norm for many an action epic in the future, which, coupled with a comfortable seat, would justify a ticket-price upcharge.
Whether or not 70 mm finds wider success, the simple fact is that 3-D, in its current format, is no longer the answer. “We blew it on 3-D,” the former DreamWorks Animation chair Jeffrey Katzenberg said last year. “It was a game-changing opportunity for the industry. When you gave them an exceptional film that artistically, creativity embraced and celebrated the uniqueness of that experience, people were happy to pay the premium,” he said. But 3-D has, with few exceptions, become a lazy add-on rather than a unique part of a film’s storytelling texture. Cameron deployed it in Avatar to make the movie’s fantasy world more vivid, but only a few films (like Doctor Strange, Gravity, and Hugo) have used it well for thematic purposes.
Cameron, ever the innovator, is trying to change the game again with the upcoming Avatar 2, which he claims could be released in “glasses-free” 3-D, a pie-in-the-sky version of laser-projection that remains in the theoretical stage. Nolan’s 70-mm effort is a little more grounded, but it’d be wise for studios to pay attention to Dunkirk’s specialty box-office performance. As audiences become more comfortable staying at home to watch a movie—or a big-budget TV series—theaters need to find ways to sell audiences on the unique power of a cinema experience. Dunkirk could hold one compelling answer.
Sam Bailey lit a cigarette, lost in what Fatimah Asghar later called “stunned silence.” The women do most things together these days—ever since Bailey, 28, directed and Asghar, 27, wrote a new web series—Brown Girls, set in Chicago, where they live. But that January afternoon, they shared a bench outside Sony Studios in Los Angeles. For days, they’d felt a thrill new to those born black (Bailey) or Muslim (Asghar): affirmation. Hollywood executives loved the world the two 20-somethings made, one where no one is white and everyone is “brown”—Spanish-speaking, black, South Asian, queer. Off-white. The same only in that they are different. Emails from HBO, Comedy Central, and TBS started the day Brown Girls went online. Visions of strange new viewers loomed: accountants in Ohio, yoga-addicted housewives, maybe even politicians in Washington.
Beast Celebrates a Man's Abrupt Return to Nature
They hadn’t meant to stray past their tribe—the friends Asghar kept in mind as she wrote or the strangers who could have been her friends, or characters. Like the girls of color on Remezcla, the Latin site that drove a lot of their views and search traffic from the day their trailer beamed from it like a bat signal. Soon screenings materialized, in London, Spain, the Brooklyn Museum of Art—where brown girls in Hatecopy shirts partied with queer black boys in one of the largest temples to African art in the world. For those primed to get it, the series was “hard to miss,” said Aymar Jean Christian, an assistant professor at Northwestern University, which in part funds the series via the media incubator Open TV (Beta). Founded by Christian, OpenTV (Beta) gave birth to the show. “I’ve been studying web series for eight years,” he told me, “and I strain to think of a web series that got as much press.” Twitter, a measure of what people care about right this second, registered the interest, too. On premiere day, #browngirlstv was high enough to be seen by anyone glancing at the site’s trending hashtags.
Listen to the audio version of this article:Feature stories, read aloud: download the Audm app for your iPhone.
Miles from the gloom of Chicago, Asghar and Bailey were confused. Because the country is confused. Americans are preparing for different eventualities. The president is promising a border wall, even as the nation’s biggest networks pour cash into Telemundo and Univision. This year and last, Atlanta and Insecure and Moonlight and Moana moved the spotlight away from white characters and writers, and eyes and hearts and wallets moved, too. On Rotten Tomatoes, another good scale of popular interest, those four productions together total just shy of a perfect score, at 396 percent. The nation’s heartbeat holds the quick pulses of those brown girls and black boys, and executives tried to match fare to that pace. Others, famously, could not keep up. Kendall Jenner walked into the wrong role—a would-be protester who breaks ranks to bond with cops over a Pepsi. The ad failed; hashtags flew the wrong way. Soda wound up looking more dated than ever before.
This month, HBO announced a deal with Asghar and Bailey to develop Brown Girls into a series. The decision exceeded expectations. HBO is orders of magnitude edgier than Pepsi, but even so, Brown Girls is a tricky sell: The two lead characters, Leila and Patricia, are Pakistani American and African American; there are no white people; there are a lot of gay folks; and lurking under every party scene and friend montage lies a dark premise—things really might not work out. Diversity may be good business for HBO today, but creators still answer to the whims of tomorrow’s market. “We know historically that the mainstream loses interest in us,” Christian told me. Every trend is a product of market factors. The rise of cable meant white flight from network TV and an era of black sitcoms in the 1990s. As prestige TV took off in the last decade, networks made another transformation, bringing in dramas starring people of color (like the shows Asghar binges on: Scandal, Quantico, How To Get Away With Murder). HBO’s standalone streaming service, HBO Now, launched to tap into viewers who don’t have a cable subscription, prepping for a future when everyone is “untethered,” as Christian put it. HBO Now’s flagship show, Insecure, makes a bid for black viewers who fall into that demographic.
Relying on the market to guarantee relevancy can of course go against you. Consider, for instance, the other Brown Girls, a pilot in the works under the same name written by two women—one desi, one Iranian. Directed for network TV by Mark Cendrowski, a Big Bang Theory alum, the show’s premise sounds almost like a joke about how out of step Hollywood is. Indeed, the plot lifts an actual joke: It is a real version of the fake Indian sitcom in Master of None, a retread of Perfect Strangers, only with an Indian character from India and one from America. So far, the duplicate name hasn’t been an issue. This other production may yet be an innovative hit, but Asghar frets over the perilous premise, which to her mind is a likely victim of the network mismanagement she has so far been spared. “It’s sad, because he’s going to be fine,” she said, about Cendrowski. If the show does come in for criticism, Asghar fears, it may fall heaviest on the women who wrote the show and the desi actors on screen.
OpenTV (Beta) exists partly to test what happens when people of color nurture work by other people of color. “Everything is data,” Christian told me. He is collecting metrics on each OpenTV (Beta) program—numbers from Twitter, web statistics, and development deals—to see how and if they can survive in the American media landscape. Brown Girls is thus a sort of freak, born in a test tube but also in conditions arguably more organic than in Hollywood, where the bottom line influences every artistic choice. Perhaps that’s why Asghar and Bailey heard warnings en route to Los Angeles. “People told us all kinds of things,” Asghar told me. “Like, ‘You already made Brown Girls. Nobody’s going to want that. They’re just going to want to have you in the Rolodex. These are all general meetings’ … blah, blah, blah.”
Instead, life actually worked out. Their time in Hollywood reads as a dream of frictionless peace between people of color, who Asghar and Bailey say “rode hard” for the show. This wasn’t some Pepsi meeting. Nor was it the experience that reportedly met Issa Rae, in the early stages of developing Insecure. (One network angled to make it Awkward Indian Boy, another wanted to cast a lighter-skinned actress, and a third rejected a list of dream writing hires—mostly people of color—due to their lack of formal experience.) Everyone in the room seemed to get where Asghar and Bailey were coming from. “She was called a ‘baby creator,’” Bailey told me, smirking at Asghar. “But like, in a good way. They came in being like, ‘This is dope and we want to protect you. We want to help you.’” The agreement they reached suggests a continuity of vision—their test-tube baby will walk, not inspire some slicker creation. The plot picks up where the series left off, with producer roles for Bailey and Asghar. (No actors are yet signed on.)
Sitting on the bench that day under the L.A. sun, Asghar broke the stunned silence. “Man,” she said to Bailey, “I fucking love people of color.”
Bailey and Asghar met in Chicago after college, but they act like childhood friends, finishing each other’s thoughts and nodding in agreement in an automatic way that suggests they’ve been through every idea together in private. In May, we sat down in a café in Chicago’s Pilsen neighborhood. The pair shot one of the show’s pivotal scenes here: Patricia meets her mom at the café, setting the audience up for the final act in the last episode of the season, when she asks her mom for financial help. Patricia lost her waitressing job and “doesn’t want to burden her mom, but she has to,” Bailey said.
The scene contrasts with one from that other show about post-college women, a comic emblem of the Gen Y condition: when Hannah Horvath’s parents cut her off in the pilot episode of Girls. Like Hannah, Patricia is caught between a fantasy sold from childhood and hard economic realities. Patricia can’t stomach the degradations of her day job, but she needs money to make it as a musician. Yet, unlike Hannah, Patricia’s ask feels somber, weighed down by stakes the Horvaths seem exempt from. You get the sense that Patricia’s mom is straining to help and that failing to repay her tempts real consequences. The scene moves slowly. Patricia wears a tank top and has her dreadlocks half up. She’s on the phone; she sounds stressed and a little sad. “I didn’t plan on getting fired,” she says. Patricia is played by the stand-up comedian Sonia Denis, a natural when there’s a foil at hand. Against a phone, her acting isn’t as persuasive. And yet, the scene moves with the energy of the symbolic. The camera pans around the bedroom in a life we haven’t seen before: of a black Chicago art kid. There’s a photo of Drake, a poster for an art event in Pilsen, a mini keyboard, beer cans, a book on the contemporary black director Steve McQueen, photographs of black friends and family, and an aspirational photo of an elegant, natural-haired model.
Brown Girls has been compared a lot with Lena Dunham’s Girls. The most striking counterpoint is accidental: Bailey and Asghar’s innovation of casting no white characters. Most of the crew is of color, too. Girls was famously criticized for its blithe presentation of an all-white world. Asghar never watched the show; Bailey only lasted a few episodes. She was living in New York, fresh out of theater school, and the trailer spoke to her: Bailey saw Dunham’s Hannah hovering over a couch waiting to be lubed up and recognized the bad hookups she and her friends had with theater boys. She excitedly watched an episode but was disappointed. A world of white girls didn’t track with what she knew of life in big cities or artistic communities. “I was like, ‘This is so not us,’” Bailey said. The conversation around the lack of people of color on Girls bothered her, too. “It seemed there was this aggression when people asked … a real defensiveness that really turned me off from the series,” she said. “I stopped watching like two episodes in.”
Bailey and Asghar’s Brown Girls shares some genetic material with shows like Girls or Broad City—all revolve around young women in quasi-romantic friend-love trying to make it in the world. The final scene in Brown Girls even looks like a Broad City closer, centered on the two mains beside each other on the couch, essentially pillow-talking, without needing to make eye contact. “It’s great that these shows exist,” Asghar told me of Girls and Broad City, but “I haven’t seen them, in part because I don’t think they’re marketed to me.”
Girls unintentionally set the stage for Brown Girls’ success. “I think it was the strength of the [Brown Girls] trailer, the clarity of the title, and the fact that so many people had been waiting for an intersectional response to [Girls],” Christian said of why Brown Girls landed as loudly as it did. Aside from Remezcla, the trailer yielded headlines on Elle, The Huffington Post, and other mainstream sites, where the pitch was often “Girls for the rest of us.” The level of buzz seemed almost inappropriate. Christian told me the team’s entire press strategy consisted of sending out a few emails prior to the trailer’s drop, hardly a blitz to presage what was to come. He puts their success down to right-place, right-time, right-work-ethic, right-follow-through. “Girls was entering its final season,” Christian said. “[Donald] Trump was winning the election. People were looking for a vision of America that doesn’t center on whiteness. They just hit a nerve.”
Watching Brown Girls for the first time, I was struck by how pleasantly dated this lauded millennial web series felt. It made me think of the days when my only go-to as a South Asian were movies that played in theaters where they served samosas during the intermissions (and there were always intermissions, even for “white movies”). In the early 1990s, me and my kind took what we could get. Our think-piece-worthy films played on the fringes, in ethnic and occasionally indie movie theaters, where everyone in the audience got their pop-culture news by word of mouth. Like Brown Girls, these productions—like Saving Face, a Chinese American coming-out movie, or Chutney Popcorn, in which an Indian woman falls for a white woman—featured a mingling of melanin counts and sexualities, an early embrace of any and all otherness, before there were hashtags to get everyone else on board. Typically, however, these movies lacked sophistication, were plagued by lame jokes about accents, and made only trepidatious social commentary. (I sometimes wonder if it takes a few generations for South Asian creatives to stop caring what their parents might think.) Still, we filed into the theater, thrilled to see faces and alienation we could relate to on a screen.
These were movies “for the rest of us,” before that phrase could titillate the majority, too, and before the word “intersectionality” had entered the mainstream. The term, coined by legal scholar Kimberle Crenshaw in the late 1980s, addresses the way that people with multiple marginalized identities—non-English-speaking women of color, for example—can find their particular experiences obscured by an emphasis on one of those identities.
Hollywood continues to struggle with this idea. For example, at a luncheon earlier this year to celebrate women in Hollywood, the former Daily Show correspondent Jessica Williams said, “When I talk about feminism, sometimes I feel like being a black woman is cast aside.” But Williams’s tablemates seemed to miss her point. “Who are you when you’re not black and you’re not a woman?” asked Salma Hayek. “Find the democracy inside,” urged Shirley MacLaine. Williams tried to point out that to ignore outsides is foolish, that they set the height of your ceiling and the bounds of your fate, whether cops will kill you or hug you, how you feel in line at the bank, what distance you stand from the tracks—because your hair is covered in cloth and you might get pushed. “Wouldn’t it solve it if women just all had each other’s backs in general?” asked the celebrity chef Cat Cora.
No, to go by Crenshaw, or the alienation Girls stoked. “Not only are women of color in fact overlooked, but their exclusion is reinforced when white women speak for and as women,” Crenshaw wrote decades ago, presaging the Girls backlash. The Women’s March demonstrated how this divide among women infiltrates every aspect of American life. “For whom are they marching? Is it only for themselves?” asked the writer Jenna Wortham, invoking the oft-cited statistic that more than half of the country’s white women voted for Trump.
Brown Girls innovates in multiple ways. It centers women of color. It joins them, though they are different colors. And it performs this act of solidarity without seeming to erase the black woman involved. Leila’s trials are not presented as greater than Patricia’s, or even equal exactly, though the two operate as sisters. “Just because they’re people of color doesn’t mean they’re not racist,” Patricia says, in a couch-lounging scene. She’s talking about the managers of the restaurant where she works, explaining to the girls’ friend Victor why she quit. “My family’s racist,” Leila pipes in. We are reminded that there’s no rest for the weary. Brown people are racist, too, against black people. Not avoiding the messy stuff makes the friendship feel real. It’s not moralistic companionship, though its enactment reflects Asghar’s political beliefs. “Solidarity amongst folks of color is kind of the key to all of our collective freedom,” she told me. “Otherwise, we’re just going to have the same type of hierarchical issues.”
The show’s vision of femininity is also novel. Matriarchy is taken as a given, as in many dark-skinned parts of the world. Fathers are absent, barely spoken of. Even mothers are not ultimately as important as being a mother to oneself and one’s friends. Leila means well but can’t always be trusted. She burns bridges, blurts out what’s on her mind. Meanwhile, her friends protect her unconditionally, as a parent to a child. As love interests, too, men are irrelevant at best and a punch line at worst. Patricia is the only penis-seeking woman in the Brown Girls corps, and she treats the body part as synecdoche, cleaving her love of it from her love of men. In one scene, she sends a Tinder hookup home with the brisk efficiency of a man dismissing an electrician. The viewer never gets the sense that this is a put-on, that she is feigning nonchalance to hide some buried need. She and Leila really seem to cover their emotional needs, together.
There’s a story told in my home community of the two uncles. They each visited a Rolls Royce dealership in Plano, Texas. They were ignored. Both were millionaires, but the salesmen seemed to think they weren’t good for the money. That’s the sort of shit that bonds you, even if you were born into different castes (which these uncles were). Asghar’s characters are also, to use a saying popular in South Asian circles, “same same, but different.” In America, difference can make you the same.
Particularly if you lived at the margins of the margins, as Asghar did. “Growing up, nobody really knew what I was,” she recalled. “I would wait for the bus stop, and cars would drive by, and everybody would speak Spanish to me … And then September 11th happened.” Suddenly, she was treated differently—by both white people and people of color. “There is a lot of complication between brownness and blackness, and in brownness,” she said. “Brownness is so many things. It is like every race; every one is there. We haven’t figured it out. We don’t have the words necessarily to talk about it. We can be really hyper specific, but then there’s moments where you’re actually just fucking confused for each other all the time. And then, there’s all these hate crimes that you hear about that came from people mistaking someone for someone else and murdering them. And you’re like, Right, that happens.”
In Brown Girls, the interracial harmony seems to come out of a shared isolation. None of the characters are particularly bound to family. Poverty is also a catalyzing energy, separating strangers from kin and binding them together instead.
This dynamic tracks with the real people behind the show. Bailey grew up a latchkey kid in a mixed Chicago neighborhood. Logan Square was “super Puerto Rican and Mexican,” crossed with “blacks and maybe a few other people, like ‘tourists’ in the North side. But I always felt that we kind of took on each other’s shit … because we all kind of felt like we were the same,” she said. “That’s one of the reasons why, when I was reading Brown Girls, I wanted to direct it. I was like: ‘I know this. Me and my old relationships, best friends, this is us, this is our relationship.’” In the summer, she’d hang out on the stoop with her BFFs, Ashley Gomez and Selina Crespo, “trying to get the guys from the gangs to look at us. We dressed a certain way. I remember Ashley’s mom would make my mom tamales, and my mom would make her greens and cornbread, and they would share it.”
Bailey once dreamed of becoming an actress. But she didn’t yet know what pitfalls awaited a black girl. For Bailey, theater had meant “being a slave or maid or like a civil-rights person,” she told me. “White girls don’t have a monopoly on banality and fucking. What that does to you as a young person growing up, it really does break into you. You can only be a hero or a thug.” In 2012, Bailey was cast in a big production with a playhouse in Chicago. She was “asked to dress in a slave costume and twerk with a gun,” she said. “The next day, I was looking at my script trying to learn the lines, and I just started crying in this café. I was like, I cannot do this anymore.” The writer was a black woman and the director was a white woman. “They had added [the slave/twerk] after I accepted the play.” She told them she didn’t feel comfortable doing what was asked, but they wouldn’t budge. Bailey quit. She was told: “I’d never work again in Chicago. That I’d be known as the girl who leaves productions.”
Asghar also grew up in the “other” ether. Her parents, physicians from Pakistan, died of illnesses when she was 5. She and her two sisters were shuttled from Staten Island, where she was born, to Cambridge, Massachusetts. Their legal guardian, a maternal uncle, put them up in a dingy three-bedroom apartment he owned, which they often shared with renters and—always—with roaches. To keep rooms free to rent, Asghar and her sisters shared a bunk bed in a single room. Their uncle supplied rent, internet, and lighting; they covered groceries and other essentials like bus fare on their own. During this time, she met Nabila Hossain, whom Asghar would tap to play Leila. Hossain grew up in similar economic conditions. She and others like her constituted the alter-community Asghar came to rely on; they all lived outside the glitzy homes of the proper South Asian diaspora.
Brown privilege is an underappreciated phenomenon. Indians and Pakistanis and Sri Lankans in America more often than not arrived with caste and class and degrees on their side, a result of the preferences built into the H1B visa application process. Their homes—the ones Asghar only ever dropped into—reflect these intangible resources, including how kids are raised and what they are taught to prioritize. They also reflect the most insipid prejudices around them: that black people are inferior, gay people are going to hell, whiteness/light-skin is desirable, money comes above all else, life is a race to the top. For Asghar, that world was just as foreign as white America. “Some of our closest friends were all South Asian—but they were all living in Section 8 housing,” she told me. “We all kind of occupied a similar class status. We were able to be friends because we went to the same elementary schools together, but also because we had similar shit. We all had cockroaches in our bag.”
Immigrant communities are some of America’s most stratified, importing biases from homelands and implementing them as seamlessly as if the larger culture were conceived with them in mind. (It haunts me to this day, the memory of a girl left out from our second-gen crowd. She had the signs of low caste: a food-worker’s last name, gray-black skin, half an arm—a souvenir from birth in a poor Indian hospital.) Cambridge itself was “super diverse,” Asghar recalled, full of “immigrants from every place: African immigrants, Asian immigrants, immigrants from South and Central America”—and then there was the Pakistani American crowd. She and her sisters were freaks, “underclass” interlopers in this other world. “We would go to these Pakistani functions,” she said, “and we felt really not a part of the community, and a lot of it was because we were orphans.”
Khudejha, the eldest Asghar sister, was about 7 when their parents passed away. “She’s been fighting for me and my sister forever, and she was so young, having to take that on.” Fatimah Asghar was thus “a little bit shielded,” the baby. “Khudejha was always working. I was not,” she told me. That was Khudejha’s gift. She was “very much like, ‘Go do your thing.’” Fatimah hustled in a different way. “I’ve never done an unpaid internship type of thing,” she told me (another departure from the Girls girls). When she and her sisters finally applied to colleges, it was to those in the sweet spot of prestige and cheapness—top schools that admit students on a need-blind basis. At Brown University, on day one, she met Jamila Woods, the musician, who would become her best friend. Their friendship partly inspired the premise of Brown Girls. It was Woods who encouraged Asghar to move to her own hometown of Chicago, a city where “you can live,” Asghar said. Especially as an artist, the terms make sense: “You can find cheap rent. You can live in a co-op. You don’t need to be paying like $800 for an apartment.”
In 2015, the rapper Saba explained to Complex Magazine why he considered Chicago “one of the most revolutionary places in the world right now.” In short: “We want each other to win.” That old moniker that dogs the city—Second City, second to New York, forever the runner-up—in this context propels it forward. Guarantees of success are fewer, the scene isn’t so dense, and so it’s not cutthroat in the way of L.A. or New York. After an opportunity to teach at a university in New York came along, Christian described how he realized that the robustness of his experiment relies on staying put. “I can’t ask artists to collaborate in New York City,” he told me. “They’d be so focused on getting into the industry.” The strive can limit the striver. That often means losing out on “making work that’s innovative and might get the industry to change.”
The collaborative vibe of Chicago informs Brown Girls—from Asghar’s experience of writing it, to Bailey’s insistence on bringing in Chicago women of color to work behind the scenes. In their pitch to HBO, the pair called their characters “resourcefully fly.” Without trust funds, or even much in the way of loans, they do cool shit and look good doing it. “They’re blue-collar artists,” Bailey said, a phrase she also invokes to describe her own crowd in Chicago.
The concept of “chosen family” is something Asghar loves. “My characters often don’t have family,” she told me. The first scene of Brown Girls establishes this immediately. Leila is in bed with a woman, when an aunty calls to wish her happy Eid. The call distresses Leila, and Hossain displays the manic energy that distinguishes her character, that makes her at once off-putting and loveable. Hossain’s portrayal at times feels almost too real to watch, as if the set were as secure as a post-coital bedroom. She does not hide what might turn off a viewer. Her eyes go too wide and her voice gets too intense. She has no chill. She’s a naked lady with a constant lover, stretch marks out.
The split between blood and love is a negotiation queer people, brown people, so many people know well. You can be yourself in the sack and a stranger around your parents’ table. Leila is chastised by her lover for feigning coldness once the clothes come on, though she’s clearly in love. This thread runs through the first season. Self-denial isn’t new to the outsider’s narrative tradition, but here there is no need for some grand reconciliation of selves. Because the aunties don’t really matter. The home, the family, the nuclear immigrant casing—all that is discarded for a second shell that fits better. Same same, but different.
Laughing and Crying With Laura Harrier, the New Star of Spider-Man
Ashley Weatherford | The Cut
“Harrier is biracial, in a moment when the Tracee Ellis Rosses, Rashida Joneses, and Zoë Kravitzes of the world are vocalizing the complexities of living in this country representing two disparate backgrounds. Harrier has joined the conversation. ‘Growing up, there were no families on TV that looked like mine. I remember doing the census as a kid and my mom being like “This is a really big deal because this is the first time you can check more than one box.”’”
With 4:44, Jay-Z Is Being Celebrated for Owning His Mistakes. For a Black Man, That’s Rare.
Hanif Willis-Abdurraqib | Vox
“No size or age dictates the rate at which we learn to turn away from our old mistakes, and clean ourselves up before making new ones. And so when I think about the platinum-plated response to the 47-year-old Jay Z’s 4:44, I also think about the 12-year-old [Tamir] Rice—how he was never afforded the mistakes that come with growing up, and the accolades that come with surviving them.”
How a Russian Street Art Museum Defies Kremlin Censors
Sophie Pinkham | The New Republic
“Street artists have the freedom to make whatever they please—with the important caveats that if they’re caught, they are subject to arrest, fines, and prosecution—not to mention the destruction of their art. A museum imposes limitations on the works shown within its walls on the basis of aesthetic, political, and other criteria, but in exchange it promises conservation, protection, and respect for its holdings.”
The Great Power and Great Responsibility of Spider-Man
David Harper | The Ringer
“For all of the character’s success and the passion he engenders, Spider-Man’s 55th year finds him in unfamiliar territory. With Spider-Man: Homecoming kicking off Spidey’s third film franchise in 15 years and with the comics at a five-year sales low point, the character is facing a foe he’s never met before: an uncertain future.”
Serena Williams and Okja: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
Eternal Sunshine
Rembert Browne | The Fader
“It’s a masterful, near-political dismantling of the old heads, just another thing that makes [Lil] Yachty a heroic figure to many of his teenage peers and a thorn in the side of many of his rap elders ... Still, inquiries into whether or not it’s all a schtick aren’t without warrant. And the more you keep digging ... the more you’re forced to realize that the teens have changed the rules, and the easiest way to get left behind is to get hung up on reality.”
The Kitsch Gazes Back: Jeff Koons and Damien Hirst Return
Kibum Kim and Natasha Degen | The Los Angeles Review of Books
“Today’s most acclaimed and successful artists, such as Mark Bradford, Carol Bove, Rashid Johnson, and Sterling Ruby, evince impeccable taste through spare compositions and assemblages that draw on the language of minimalism, often in dialogue with aesthetics from fashion, architecture, and design. In contrast, Hirst’s and Koons’ projects are characterized by overwrought conceits, aesthetic excess, and a kind of deliberate, even defiant, tackiness.”
The Weekly Package
Kim Wall | Harper’s 
“Cisneros’ building had no internet connection—in Cuba, only apparatchiks and hackers could get online at home. But when she plugged the drive into her laptop, another world revealed itself, in folders within folders ... El Paquete Semanal (‘The Weekly Package’), as the compilation is called, is part newsstand, part mixtape, part offline streaming service—a drive curated with magazine articles, Hollywood films, ­YouTube videos, phone apps, classified ads, and more. It has become the country’s largest private industry, reaching about half the population and generating at least $1.5 million a week.”
Filtering Your World Is Understandable—but It’s Not Helpful
Emma Grey Ellis | Wired
“People grow and evolve by being challenged. Letting them tailor the digital world to their exact specifications may hold everyone back at a time when people are trying to learn to live with one another—online and IRL ... That’s not to say that there shouldn't be safe spaces, or that all speech is 100 percent dandy. But blinkering yourself is no substitute for the thinking person's conscientious digital objection: choosing not to stream that movie—or clicking Unfollow.”
Nail Art Power
Niela Orr | The Baffler
“While Claws is surely not an example of avant-garde art, its mesmerizing shots of intricate nail designs nonetheless sanctify its mostly female space. The nail salon in Claws becomes a heterotopia of female art—with Quiet Ann watching the door at all times—and it illustrates how traditional feminine aesthetics, even when presented in straightforward media, often tend toward unruliness and even abstraction.”
“The first woman I fell in love with was probably Laureline,” Luc Besson, the French director behind the forthcoming film Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets, said last year. “She was totally free and badass, and ... was a very modern heroine at the time.” Besson was talking about one half of the duo at the center of Valérian and Laureline, the legendary sci-fi comic series his new movie is based on. Written by Pierre Christin and illustrated by Jean-Claude Mézières, the comics debuted in 1967 and follow the two eponymous “spatio-temporal agents” who work for an organization called Galaxity, and, later, as mercenaries. Valérian and Laureline travel as partners—both professional and romantic—through space and time to resolve conflicts and foil villainous plots.
In the 50 years since its inception, Valérian and Laureline has had a significant influence on sci-fi, including films like The Fifth Element and the Star Wars series. Part of the Franco-Belgian genre of comics known as bandes dessinées, the series is immensely popular in Europe, and Valérian and Laureline are among European comics’ most iconic couples. Yet the series—new special anthologies of which are being published this summer—remains little-known in America. And despite the adoration of fans like Besson, and predating sci-fi heroines like Star Wars’ Princess Leia and Alien’s Ellen Ripley, Laureline herself rarely receives the critical attention she deserves. Arguably the heart of the comics, she’s a remarkably powerful, and believable, feminist figure who still resonates today as a “very modern heroine”—though Laureline first arrived in an age when women in sci-fi were rarely presented as more than crude stereotypes.
Science Fiction's Sexism Problem
Feminist science fiction has a notable history, but the genre has long been dominated by stories written by, and solely featuring, men. I can’t help but feel awkward reading one of the most celebrated short stories of the genre, Isaac Asimov’s 1941 tale “Nightfall,” which contains no women at all beyond a passing mention of them as child-breeders. When, in 1938, a Canadian reader named Donald G. Turnbull wrote in to Astonishing Science Fiction—a major magazine for the genre—to say that “A woman’s place is not in anything scientific,” Asimov applauded him. “Three rousing cheers on Donald G. Turnbull for his valiant attack on those favoring mush,” the author wrote. “When we want science fiction, we don’t want swooning dames.” Asimov lamented that women were added superfluously to such stories, which made them “sloppy.” “Notice, too, that many top-notch, grade-A, wonderful, marvelous, etc., etc., authors get along swell without any women, at all,” Asimov wrote in 1939 in another letter about sci-fi.
In the decades preceding Valérian, it was easy to find stories in the big sci-fi magazines that featured worlds in which caricatures of women “battled” against men. For example, Thomas Gardner’s “The Last Woman” (1932) imagined a planet populated almost entirely by “intensely masculine” men, who had fought a “war of the sexes” against “women ... feminizing civilization” after a council of eugenicist scientists “decided that Woman must go.” Other stories excluded women altogether.  From the 1920s onward, predominantly male fans pondered, in letters published in the genre’s top outlets, whether women were even capable of appreciating science fiction.
* * *
Laureline thus appeared in an age that needed her. In the simplest sense, she was a female protagonist in a genre that sorely lacked such characters. But more meaningfully, she was, from the start, a radically impressive figure who set the bar high for women in science fiction. No mere beautiful figure, Laureline has a piercing intellect, a near-indomitable pride in herself, an endearing but acid wit, and formidable fighting skills. And yet she resists being an archetype of female perfection.
Laureline’s creators did not stumble upon this winning combination of traits: Her character has its roots in feminist movements and texts, including Simone de Beauvoir’s foundational work The Second Sex. “You do not read [The Second Sex] with impunity,” Christin told the comics’ artist, Mézières, in 2001 when asked about the inspiration for Laureline. He added that “feminism in the United States” in the mid-20th century and “the rise of women as real protagonists in all fields” had also caught his eye. Mézières gave credit to Jean-Claude Forest’s earlier Barbarella comics, which were one of the few of the era to feature a notable female lead.
But whereas Barbarella, who famously champions free love, reads perhaps more as burlesque, Laureline feels fleshed-out and human. And while the early Wonder Woman comics by William Moulton Marston lost some of their feminist power through their heavy-handedness, Laureline is tough in a more accessible way—without needing superpowers. Indeed, when the series begins, Laureline is not a futuristic elite agent, but, rather, an 11th-century peasant. In the comics’ first story, Bad Dreams (translated into English for the first time this year), Valérian travels back in time on a mission to the Middle Ages, when he meets Laureline. She discovers that Valérian is from the future, a potentially timeline-altering secret that prompts him to take her back to Galaxity, changing her life—and science fiction—forever.
* * *
I discovered Christin and Mézières’ comics in my twenties. At first, they reminded me of many things: the French artist Moebius’s fantastical sci-fi in The Airtight Garage and Edena; Star Wars (which Christin famously claimed stole design elements from his comics); and one of my favorite video-game series as a teenager, TimeSplitters, which also, half-comically, sent galactic agents into the past to battle cross-temporal villainies. But Valérian, which appeared before all these works, still seemed tonally unique.
I began with the first full-length story in the series, The City of Shifting Waters, which was the earliest to imagine Valérian and Laureline on a large-scale adventure. Initially published in two parts, the story took place in a New York City after a global nuclear catastrophe in the 1980s, flooded and controlled by seafaring bandits pillaging abandoned department and jewelry stores. Valérian, sent into this past timeline to investigate a suspicious incident amid the chaos, is later saved by Laureline, who has been secretly trailing him. Valérian finally encounters her in a dark room on a ship and tries to fight her, thinking she’s one of the bandits; though Laureline seems poised to beat him, she laughingly reveals herself, after which the pair set off on the mission together. The art in these early stories is simplistic in comparison to the majestic shadows and dreamlike scenes of later tales like On the Frontiers, but what drew me in was Laureline.
The young female agent subverts not only the expectations of the 20th century in which the comics appeared but also of her own medieval period. Indeed, the first time Laureline appears in the series is to save Valérian, not be rescued as a damsel in distress. Although the Dark Ages were less lightless than often rendered, had Laureline remained in her own time, she likely would have been required her to submit to the men around her. As de Beauvoir wrote of the constructions of gendered behavior in societies, “One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman”; Laureline was always strong, but her power bloomed when it was given room to. This sense of becoming is perhaps most visible in the sixth volume, Ambassador of the Shadows. With Valérian kidnapped by violent aliens, Laureline must save him, and the day, on her own; it turns into the first of Laureline’s solo tales, highlighting her ingenuity and resilience.
Laureline is the star the series orbits around, even though Valérian is the comics’ titular character and the one most likely to be on covers by himself. To be sure, Valérian is lovable and credible even in his cartooniest illustrations, a straightforward male hero. But as I read more, he seemed to me almost as soporific as his namesake drug compared to his partner, even as he completes his missions.
The series is not bereft of soft sexism, but most of it comes from other characters. The stunning Laureline is frequently sexualized by male strangers; all the same, she is both aware, and unashamed, of her sexuality, using it to her advantage when need be and putting down those who reduce her to her looks. It’s certainly cringeworthy whenever Laureline is called “little Laureline” by various characters, and yet, throughout the comics, she consistently proves she is anything but “little.” When Laureline is captured by a deadly male former galactic agent, Jal, in On the Frontiers, it initially seems like she needs Valérian to rescue her; however, the moment Jal calls her a “doll,” she hits him and breaks his grip on her own. She isn’t unbeatable, but remains a formidable force.
Despite Laureline’s capability, the series, ultimately, is about partnership. Romance rarely formed the backbone of the comics’ narratives, and yet the couple’s relationship was nonetheless striking for the 1960s: Because they are not married, they were considered an “illegitimate” couple when they first kissed in the story The Empire of a Thousand Planets. Their extraordinary solo accomplishments notwithstanding, Laureline and Valérian know they’re stronger as a team. Laureline does not join her partner because she is weaker and needs him; rather, she works as his equal and, often, as his teasing superior.
The duo’s deep connection doesn’t undermine Laureline’s sense of purpose. In On the False Earth, Laureline is forced to watch disturbing videos of clones of Valérian dying on a mission, and she’s chastised by her commander, Jadna, for her distressed reactions. Jadna insists Laureline is only suffering because she is still beholden to “male supremacy,” to orienting her life as a woman around men. Laureline, fragile here and yet wiser than Jadna, thinks furiously, “You stupid cow. If you think for a minute it’s because of male supremacy I love my man ... ” This is the series’ less mechanical—and more empathetic—feminist message: that people can acknowledge patriarchal and systemic oppression without policing who they love.
For his part, Besson appears to want to capture Laureline and Valérian’s comical yet cool, marvelous yet mundane, dynamic in his film adaptation, which opens in the U.S. on July 21. “I’m trying to remain faithful to their nature,” the director said in a conversation with Christin and Mézières in the first of the publisher Cinebook’s new anthologies. In addition to the couple’s complex relationship, I especially hope Besson translates the full magic of Laureline to the screen. While Cara Delevingne, who was cast as Laureline, presents somewhat of a visual departure from Mézières’ drawings of the red-haired heroine, I’m more curious to see whether her character will embody Laureline’s memorable blend of valor, verve, and vulnerability.
Though science fiction has more women writers and nuanced female characters today than it did 50 years ago, the genre still needs more Laurelines. She showed readers like me how resilient we can be, whether wading across centuries, or taking to distant earths. She helped transform her comics—already visually arresting at their peak—into art in a broader sense, an art guided by examining what it means to move through the many regions of the self, the silent icy deserts and loud alien landscapes far from any starships like one’s own. Because even when all its characters are aliens in unfamiliar worlds, science fiction has always been about looking at humanity. And while the genre still has room to grow, these comics, by exploring what it means to be a person—and, in particular, a woman—in spaces and times far from those of their readers, show one path forward that certainly works.
Don’t Miss
The Story of Jay-Z—Adam Serwer decodes the historical context behind the emcee’s economic nationalism on his new album 4:44.
Video Games
Coming of Age With The Legend of Zelda—Karen Han reminisces about her earliest days with the franchise, which is a particularly apt reflection of entering adulthood.
Music
The Familiar Novelty of Haim’s New Album—Spencer Kornhaber explains how Something to Tell You cheerfully broadens, but doesn’t deepen, the retro, bustling sound that made the California trio famous.
Kesha’s Comeback Message: Love Your Enemy—Spencer Kornhaber looks at the musician’s new ballad, which announces she’s moving on after alleging abuse by her producer.
The Summer of Cornball Superproducers—Spencer Kornhaber argues that new albums from DJ Khaled and Calvin Harris represent the industrial consolidation of hitmaking—and suggest that kitsch is in.
Film
A Ghost Story Is a Haunting Modern Fable—David Sims raves about David Lowery’s new film, which stars Casey Affleck as an old-fashioned ghost who can’t leave his life behind.
Spider-Man: Homecoming Is One of the Best Superhero Movies in Years—Christopher Orr raves about Sony’s collaboration with Marvel Studios, which gets so many things right, it’s almost difficult to list them all.
Hollywood Has a Bad-Movie Problem—David Sims asserts that domestic audiences are rejecting this summer’s procession of tired sequels, and international grosses won’t be enough to keep studios afloat forever.
Baby Driver Is a Rare Heist Movie With a Heart—David Sims analyzes how Edgar Wright’s latest film pays homage to, and subverts, the morality of the getaway driver.
Television
Snowfall Considers the Origins of the Crack Epidemic—Sophie Gilbert writes that John Singleton’s new FX series has all the trappings of a prestige drug drama, but can’t find the core of its characters.
Tour de Pharmacy’s Insane, Riotous Ride—Sophie Gilbert watches the HBO special, which is a bonkers, star-studded pastiche of cycling’s doping problem.
Books
The Story of a Revolution, Told in Real Time—Amy Weiss-Meyer digs into Omar Robert Hamilton’s debut novel, The City Always Wins, which follows members of an activist media collective chronicling the aftermath of the Egyptian uprising.
Stephen Florida Reveals the Dark Toll of Athletic Greatness—Alex McElroy unpacks Gabe Habash’s debut novel, which delves into the mind of a college wrestler.
Aspen Ideas Festival
What Does ‘Community’ Mean?—Megan Garber points out how the term’s evolution makes a nice metaphor for the rise of American individualism—and the decline of trust in American institutions.
When Hatred Is a Joke—Megan Garber writes that the president’s tweet of a video making light of violence was both highly unusual and completely at home in this turbulent political moment.
Talking about the band Haim often quickly becomes an exercise in naming older bands they remind people of. So, to get this out of the way: Haim’s new album, Something to Tell You, draws from Fleetwood Mac, Wilson Phillips, Talking Heads, Shania Twain, TLC, Fleetwood Mac, AC/DC, Bruce Springsteen, Prince, Heart, George Michael, Fleetwood Mac, and many others. Did I mention Fleetwood Mac? Especially the Tango in the Night album.
But reducing Haim to a list of references both papers over what makes them interesting and slightly overestimates them. On the first count: The three Los Angeles sisters have broken into the pop consciousness because they are innovators, having hit on a distinctive formula rooted in syllable stacking, syncopation, and harmony. On the second count: Something to Tell You, a cheerful elaboration of their first album, suggests they don’t yet possess the same sense of daring that characterizes some of their greatest influences.
The Summer of Cornball Superproducers
Haim’s songs breathe and fidget like living things. Often, lead singer Danielle Haim breaks words into a cluster of onomatopoeias delivered rapid-fire, making sentences sound like tongue twisters even without alliteration. Other times, the three women orchestrate complicated call-and-responses across their voices and instruments. The rhythms have a spiky, loping quality, evoking a jalopy puttering up a hill then racing down the other side again and again. These tics can be outfitted in various kinds of sounds—hence the wide range of bands Haim is compared to—and can wring a lot of excitement out of simple, repetitive melodies.

The neat thing about this shtick is that it’s a match for Haim’s subject matter, obsessive love and heartbreak. The yammer of the music mimics the yammer of a brain rehearsing a hypothetical heart-to-heart with a significant other or ex. These songs are written as strings of unanswered “you” statements and humblebrag-y “I” confessions. “Go on and say it,” Danielle urges in one chorus. “Was my love too much for you to take? I guess you never knew what was good for you.” This is the kind of truth-talking someone might workshop in their mind but never actually say out loud. Hence the album title: Something to Tell You.
The magic of Days Are Gone was in how the band arrived with this routine fully realized in a slew of pillowy, all-enveloping anthems. That album’s emotional world felt hermetically sealed, and the three sisters came across as all parts of the same consciousness. But for Something to Tell You, their sense of sanctuary is pierced by newly activist production: helium-huffing vocal manipulation, sci-fi drum panning, regal string sections. The tricks—overseen, as with the previous album, by the producer Ariel Rechtshaid—give the album a grander scope. But they also sometimes break the illusions of intimacy and effortlessness that have been essential to Haim’s charm.
There are nevertheless some excellent passages here. In the standout “Ready for You,” afro-pop bustle underlies a chorus in which the sisters repeatedly lock together for one big, juicy refrain: “I wasn’t / ready / for you!” The bridge features an ecstatic key change, after which the band—with the help of aforementioned studio fussing, put to its best use on this song—tears things down and rebuilds. Listening to the song is like remembering some comforting truth about an old relationship, letting it fade to back of the mind, and then remembering it again, and again.
As that song shows, the band is at its best when gathering and releasing momentum. “Nothing’s Wrong” starts with lonely guitar licks and drawled singing before sparkling keys, reverberating drum blasts, and stuttering background vocals join to create a sensation of somersaulting forward. The spare R&B of “Walking Away” takes a tonally opposite approach, with Danielle testifying in a falsetto whisper as her sisters coyly repeat the song title. You feel as if everything here is floating up, cloud-like, befitting the lyrical topic of evaporating affection. Then there’s “Right Now,” a slow burner with hissing percussion and lonely vocal rounds. A huge eruption of guitar comes midway through, but the song then returns to minimalism—life goes on.
A few solid stabs at radio pop here also should help get Haim included in breezy summer playlists. “Little of Your Love” has a stiffer rhythm than most of their songs, but the playfulness of the accompanying horn section and of the chirpy chorus can’t be denied. The first single, “Want You Back,” is also an effective mood enhancer, though it remains less than a masterpiece thanks to some faddish production choices. The sentimental climax of the album, the string-laden “Found It in Silence,” builds in such a way that you’ll probably see it in a some forthcoming TV-show season finale in which “will-they, won’t-they” tension is resolved.
Now, back to those references. In concert, Haim sometimes covers Fleetwood Mac’s “Oh Well,” a pre-Stevie Nicks cut of walloping, un-poppy blues rock. That choice would suggest the band wants to be known for not only its superficial kinship with great rock bands that came before but also for its spiritual kinship—a sense of sonic adventure, a willingness to rip things up and shock its audience, Tusk-like. But two albums in, Haim hasn’t really proven it. Something to Tell You broadens the group’s sound, but on the level of songwriting, nothing here couldn’t have been on Days Are Gone—and none of it exceeds that album in quality. Without pushing further, Haim may not become a truly classic act. Then again, they already have achieved one marker of greatness: coining a unique sound that, someday soon, may get other bands compared to Haim.
Until 4:44, Jay-Z’s albums could be understood as an indictment of the immorality of capitalism by a man luxuriating in its fruits. Jay-Z argued that there was something revolutionary in this, in a black man born in the projects proving himself a better entrepreneur than white men born into plenty, as if to suggest the infinite human potential destroyed by the circumstances he escaped. He was right.
Jay-Z used the terms of finance to describe the drug trade—referring to his crew as his “staff,” his organization as his “conglomerate,” smoothly transitioning from acknowledging the violence of the trade to comparing it to the stock market (“drug prices up and down like it’s Wall Street homes, but this is worse than the Dow Jones, your brains are now blown”), and connecting the inequality of the system that shaped his life with his determination to triumph over it.
He saw clearly that his pursuit of success visited countless cruelties and indignities upon himself and those around him, and that his triumph would come at unimaginable cost. Perhaps the one thing he didn’t expect was that it would have a happy ending, one with wealth and family, fame and fatherhood.
Jay-Z's Pitch for Generational Wealth
The contradiction of that transition is that while Shawn Corey Carter’s politics have simplified in disappointing ways, that’s come with an emotional maturity Jay-Z never had. On Reasonable Doubt, Jay-Z’s ideal relationship was one in which fidelity was optional; on 4:44, Carter raps movingly about the devastating realization that someday, his children will learn of his transgressions. He imagines himself on the other end of the knife he used to stab the director Lance “Un” Rivera in 1999. He gives his mother space on the album to speak about the years she spent hiding her sexual orientation.
The tension between Jay-Z’s love of the game and his fear of losing his soul, his indulgence in worldly pleasures as the years ripped away friends and family through death or betrayal, formed the emotional core of every Jay-Z album from Reasonable Doubt to The Blueprint 3. Appropriately enough, 4:44 begins with the metaphorical assassination of the Jay-Z persona as Carter takes on the responsibilities of fatherhood, marriage, and wealth. He offers a new vision of capitalism as a tool for community uplift. Carter is not at the height of his lyrical prowess on 4:44, but the album is ambitious and emotionally vulnerable, and represents a profound shift from Jay-Z’s previous offerings, especially in its belief in the power of the market to improve black lives rather than destroy them.  
***
Perhaps the most concise and perplexing statement of Carter’s new unambiguous love for capitalism comes in a couplet on the second track, “The Story of O.J.,” a song whose main theme is the indelible force of racism against black people regardless of class. On one jarring line, Carter states, “You wanna know what’s more important than throwin’ away money at a strip club? Credit. You ever wonder why Jewish people own all the property in America? This how they did it.”
Carter’s admonition is meant to encourage black people to imitate what he perceives to be a Jewish strength of ethnic solidarity and financial prowess. “‘The Story of O.J.’ is really a song about we as a culture, having a plan, how we’re gonna push this forward,” Carter said on iHeartRadio. But the line is nonetheless startling because it invokes the anti-Semitic canard that Jews maintain financial control of everything you see. It’s beneath Carter, a writer and artist of astonishing ability and sophistication who has every reason to know better. Responding to prior criticisms in his book Decoded, Jay-Z  wrote that “when I use lines like this, I count on people knowing who I am and my intentions, knowing that I’m not anti-Semitic or racist, even when I use stereotypes in my rhymes.”
There’s an old strain of black capitalism here that runs from Booker T. Washington through the Black Power movement to the Nation of Islam and beyond. Carter is also drawing on an old tradition of using American Jews as a model of a downtrodden people who found success in America. Frederick Douglass predicted that just as Jewish people had “risen” despite discrimination in Europe, “in like manner the Negro will rise in social scale.”
“The Jew, who was once in about the same position as the Negro is to-day, has now complete recognition, because he has entwined himself in America in a business or industrial sense,” Washington wrote in Industrial Training for the Negro in 1904. Washington also had a similar vision of community uplift through labor that never materialized, because the white South never truly adhered to its side of the bargain Washington offered—submission to Jim Crow in exchange for peace.
“The organization of the 3,000,000 Jews in America is little less than marvelous,” wrote W.E.B DuBois in the NAACP magazine The Crisis in 1915. “This is the great net work of organization which makes the Jewish people the tremendous force for good and for uplift which they are in this country. Let black men look at them with admiration and emulate them.”  
These sorts of admonitions, drawn from Maurianne Adams’s anthology of essays on black-Jewish relations, echo through the high point of black-Jewish cooperation during the civil-rights movement, and its nadir beginning in the late 1960s, when both communities drifted toward nationalisms that would prove to be incompatible. Shirley Chisholm asserted that within Bed-Stuy, Barbadian Americans like her parents were referred to as “Black Jews” “because of their work ethic and obsession with their children’s education,” the historian Michael Woodsworth wrote in Battle for Bed-Stuy.
And of course, there were those who bristled at the comparison, such as James Baldwin. He wrote that “the Jew profits from his status in America, and he must expect Negroes to distrust him for it. The Jew does not realize that the credential he offers, the fact that he has been despised and slaughtered, does not increase the Negro’s understanding. It increases the Negro’s rage.”
The analogy has never worked, because even at its worst moments America has generally been a haven for its Jewish immigrants and their descendants, and a place of bondage for its black residents and theirs. We know the names Leo Frank, Andrew Goodman, and Michael Schwerner; the names of black people who were killed in the South under similar circumstances are too numerous to recall without aid.
“Jews had a choice, they could be white and American in all things secular, and Jewish in all things religious,” wrote Julius Lester, a former UMass-Amherst professor and African American convert to Judaism.* “This choice was not available to black people for obvious reasons.” American Jews simply have not, and likely never will, face the structural barriers that black Americans continue to face. To this day, black Americans are targeted by mainstream financial institutions with predatory loans and subprime mortgages with the potential to wipe out whatever financial success they’ve attained.
You rarely hear black people suggesting that they emulate Jewish success anymore, although as the only Jew in mostly black spaces growing up, and almost always the only black Jew, I sometimes heard it, often with the same ambivalent mix of admiration and hostility with which it comes across on 4:44. That advice isn’t given anymore because of the popular recognition that if American blacks had the same access to credit as American Jews, if thrift and moral rectitude were all that was necessary for economic success, the Bed-Stuy that created Shawn Carter would never have existed.  
***
At first, the Brooklyn neighborhood was actually two different ones: Bedford and Stuyvesant Heights. But when black families began to move into the adjacent communities in the 1930s, they became one entity. By 1940, the New Deal-era Home Owners’ Loan Corporation graded the neighborhood as “hazardous” because of an “infiltration of negroes.” The HOLC noted that “Colored infiltration” was “a definitely adverse influence on neighborhood desirability although Negroes will buy properties at fair prices and usually rent rooms.” Racism made Bed-Stuy, and then the government drew a red line around it.
As Woodsworth wrote in Battle for Bed-Stuy, “subsequent assessments by private lenders reinforced the notion that Central Brooklyn, with its expanding black population, should be quarantined. As a result, few prospective homebuyers in the area, black or white, could access federally guaranteed mortgages; existing homeowners, foreseeing plummeting property values, sold out while they could.”
The HOLC’s designation ensured that banks would not extend their usual loans there—depriving black Americans of the credit lines and capital investment that other communities would use to build wealth, and then look down their noses at black people wondering why they had not done the same. Ten years after the HOLC’s assessment, the New York City Housing Authority opened a 27-building complex known as the Marcy Houses, built on nearly 30 acres of homes and businesses cleared to make room for the public housing project. It was built to house working-class Americans and veterans, and was the childhood home of Shawn Corey Carter.
That Bed-Stuy, like all of New York City and black neighborhoods all over America, was created through private racism and state discrimination, by the hands of presidents like Franklin Roosevelt and city bureaucrats like Robert Moses. “Until the last quarter of the twentieth century,” wrote Richard Rothstein in The Color of Law, “racially explicit policies of federal, state, and local governments defined where whites and African Americans should live.” Black Americans in Bed-Stuy (as elsewhere) organized to fight these policies, but as Woodsworth described, fighting segregation in the North could be as daunting as fighting it in the South: “The problem for New York activists was that segregation was illegal, even if it persisted on the ground. They could not hope to deal a fatal blow to the Jim Crow system, since the Jim Crow system did not officially exist.”
That historical context is lacking from the economic nationalism of 4:44. The strip-club line is a more risque expression of the Obamaesque notion that black people would have better credit if they spent less money on vice, that they would have money to invest in gentrifying Brooklyn real estate or fine art that appreciates in value. “What’s better than one billionaire? Two,” Carter raps on “Family Feud.” “Especially when they from the same hue as you.” Does Carter really believe a few more black members of the one-percent club is going to change circumstances for the black masses?
This is far afield from the Jay-Z on Reasonable Doubt who acknowledged, “nine to five is how you survive but I’m not trying to survive I’m trying to live it to the limit and love it a lot”; who recalled the fleeting and bittersweet triumph of drug money, allowing him to sit at the bar “laughin’ hard, happy to be escapin’ poverty, however brief.” It’s not the Jay-Z who reveled in the skills he learned in the same drug trade, while confessing that drugs killed his father and led him to carry the gun that he used to shoot his brother. Who bragged about being able to sell “ice in the winter, I’ll sell fire in hell, I am a hustler baby, I’ll sell water to a well,” a line that’s brilliant because it identifies the essence of hustling as selling people things they don’t need. The Jay-Z who confessed that “the pressure for success can put a good strain, on a friend you call best, and yes, it could bring out the worst in every person, even the good and sane.” The rapper who acknowledged that his experience, the “American dream,” was “a journey seldom seen.”
There are hints of the old Jay-Z on 4:44 (“I still ain’t trippin’, that’s life, winners and losers, drug dealers and abusers, America likes me ruthless”), but he is largely gone, replaced by Shawn Carter the mogul, who raps on “Legacy” about leaving his wealth to his children over a sample of Donny Hathaway singing “one day we’ll all be free.” In 1999, Jay-Z told Vibe that his most important goal was “to create a comfortable position for me and everybody around me ... blacks, when we come up, we don’t normally inherit business. That’s not a common thing for us to have old money, like three and four generations, inheriting our parents’ businesses. That’s what we workin on right now, a legacy.” Nearly two decades later, Jay-Z’s vision of legacy has evolved past his inner circle to the larger black community.  
It’s a sunny optimism that stands out across the release of albums from black artists over the past two years from Solange Knowles to Kendrick Lamar that linger in the shadow of post-Obama melancholy, the sort of feeling Jay-Z might have been describing when he said in 2000, “niggas say it’s the dawn but I’m superstitious, shit is as dark as it’s been, nothing has moved as you predicted.” The point is not that 4:44’s message of community uplift is not inspiring—it is. But a lack of inspiration or motivation is not the reason that the black community suffers disproportionately from poverty, unemployment, crime, or incarceration.
And so the arc that began with Reasonable Doubt comes to an end of sorts: Jay-Z was willing to exploit the unjust system that condemned him to a life of poverty to escape it; Shawn Carter the mogul believes that system can set black people free, implying his improbable success and undeniable genius could or should be imitated. Jay-Z savaged the hypocrisy and cruelty of American capitalism while mastering it; on 4:44, Carter wonders if the system might work after all.  
Jay-Z has always asked a lot of his audience, rewarding those who look for a deeper meaning behind his deceptively casual flow. Carter’s newfound positivity and calls to buy black—and therefore subscribe to his TIDAL streaming service and buy his  champagne and cognac—whether sincere or otherwise, help his bottom line.
It’s hard not to think back to The Black Album, Jay-Z’s temporary farewell to the industry in 2003, in which he explains why he doesn’t adopt the more overtly political and activist stances of rappers like Talib Kweli and Common, and wonder whether, like Batman hiding behind Bruce Wayne, Jay-Z  the hustler is as dead as you might presume from listening to 4:44’s first track.
“If skills sold, truth be told, I’d probably be lyrically Talib Kweli, truthfully I wanna rhyme like Common Sense, but I did 5 mill, I ain’t been rhyming like Common since,” Jay-Z raps. Later, he says, “so next time you see the homie and his rims spin, just know my mind is working just like them (the rims, that is).”
* This article originally identified Julius Lester as a former Amherst professor. We regret the error.
Tour de Pharmacy, a new mockumentary by Andy Samberg and Murray Miller, starts as it means to go on: with Orlando Bloom, in lycra and sporting two-tone facial hair, hurtling down a mountain having a drug-induced heart attack while his penis dangles woefully to the side. The 38-minute special, a good-natured play on reverent sports docs like ESPN’s 30 for 30 series, is absurd. It takes the thorny subject of doping in professional cycling and turns it into pure, gleeful mayhem, complete with animated guides to red-blood cells, artistic renderings of bear fellatio, and Lance Armstrong wearing a white fur coat, texting his lawyer.
The HBO special is a follow-up of sorts to 2015’s 7 Days in Hell, also written by Miller and directed by Jake Szymanski, which starred Samberg and Kit Harington as two professional tennis players participating in the longest and most controversial match in sports lore. Like its predecessor, Tour de Pharmacy turns a satirical eye to the more ridiculous excesses of professional sport—in this case the history of drug-fueled athletes at the Tour de France. If you’re not quite ready to laugh at Armstrong’s self-owns regarding his record of humiliating TV appearances, it’s hard not to snicker when John Cena shows up in typical Herculean form as the German athlete Gustav Ditters, roid-raging at any suggestions that he might have had chemical assistance in bulking up.
Popstar: Celebrity Satire Done Right
Cena is only one of an eclectic array of stars. Jon Hamm returns as the perfectly grave narrator. From the sporting world, there are Armstrong, Mike Tyson, Joe Buck, and Chris Webber as faux-earnest talking heads. But the plot focuses mainly on the five cyclists who supposedly faced off in the 1982 Tour de France: Bloom’s Italian stallion Juju Peppi (visibly inspired by the late Marco Pantani); Cena’s Ditters; Samberg’s white Nigerian frat boy Marty Hass; Freddie Highmore’s Frenchwoman-in-disguise Adrian Baton; and Daveed Diggs’s American trailblazer Slim Robinson, Jackie Robinson’s “nephew,” with a history book-sized chip on his shoulder.
Miller and Samberg apparently became friends when both were summer-camp counselors who’d satirize the talent shows the staff would perform each year. Appropriately, Tour de Pharmacy has the attention span of a 15-year-old boy, whooshing from “historical footage” to video interludes to obscene Finnish credit-card commercials to Phylicia Rashad as an animator kicked off Sesame Street for creating a Black Panther puppet. In a longer movie, it might provoke whiplash. Here, though, the pace is frenetic enough that it works. And the special is sneakily well-informed when it comes to the story of doping in cycling, from the pharmacopeia of drugs athletes have historically ingested to get through races to the corrupt figures who turn a blind eye (a bewigged Kevin Bacon pops up as a Finnish anti-doping official who demands bribes to pay off his mountain of debt).
But wait: There’s more. Like James Marsden as a plummy BBC presenter riding alongside the cyclists. And Jeff Goldblum, Danny Glover, Dolph Lundgren, and Julia Ormond as the present-day Hass, Robinson, Ditters, and Baton. And J.J. Abrams, inexplicably. At this point in his career, Samberg apparently has the network of friends and the stored-up goodwill to get anyone and everyone he wants to participate in what’s essentially a high-concept teenage showreel. Luckily for all involved, the end result is insane, filthy, and totally fun.
The unnamed protagonist of A Ghost Story looks like a melancholic cartoon character: a figure in a white sheet that extends past his feet, with two miserable eye-holes in lieu of a face. A Halloween-ish creature turned into an avatar of grief and loss, he’s played by Casey Affleck, who would be a lock to win the Oscar for Best Wordless Shuffling if such a category existed. For the 92-minute running time of David Lowery’s spellbinding movie, this spirit doesn’t do much except watch balefully as life rolls on without him.
This simplicity is at the core of what Lowery has tapped into so hauntingly—that death, for all its unknowability, is frighteningly mundane. We first meet the ghost, C, as a struggling musician, living in a rustic suburban house with his wife M (Rooney Mara). The details of their life are largely kept remote, but they have typical moments of tension and tenderness before their relationship is cut short by a car accident. C dies, but soon enough, he rises from his slab in the morgue, clad in that floor-length white sheet, and is immediately drawn back to his home, his wife, and his lost way of life.
Manchester by the Sea Is a Stunning Meditation on Grief
The less you know about A Ghost Story going into the theater, the better, but this is also a movie that’s nigh-impossible to spoil, since it barely has a plot at all. In the hands of a different director, it could come off like a formal exercise, an experiment in telling a story with as little dialogue and narrative arc as possible. Most of A Ghost Story’s action, after all, is a depressing kind of voyeurism—C, standing off to the side in his sheet, watching his wife wrestle with grief and try to move on with her life. He then “haunts” the new families that move into their quaint home, an emotional ground zero that he’s inextricably bound to.
Lowery’s greatest success is in keeping this intentionally spare story from feeling like a gimmick. His debut film, the crime drama Ain’t Them Bodies Saints (which also starred Affleck and Mara) was a flawed, but gorgeous-looking take on Bonnie and Clyde, shot through with Terrence Malick-esque sun-washed visuals. His follow-up was the underrated Disney remake Pete’s Dragon, which took one of the company’s lesser-known fantasy properties and turned it into something more soulful and intimate. That film had the same emphasis on human connection that helps A Ghost Story succeed: Even as Lowery avoids giving too many specifics of C and M’s relationship, he makes sure to bind his poignant visuals to a romance that feels true-to-life.
That’s a good thing, as it would be hard to sell even the most devoted art-film fan on the plot alone, which boils down to “a silent ghost lingers in the corner, watching other people’s lives go by.” There isn’t a significant piece of dialogue in the movie until more than an hour in (when the actor and musician Will Oldham shows up to wax grandiloquently on the nature of time, mortality, and the universe). Affleck’s performance entirely relies on particular, thought-through movements—a jerk of the head, a vain attempt to grasp at something through his sheet—since he can’t even fall back on giving the camera a moody stare. Though he’s long been one of Hollywood’s best quiet actors (see The Finest Hours, which is a great performance that largely leans on watching him think), this is a much more impressive challenge.
Lowery’s fine-tuned imagery helps carry Affleck through it. The director pays close attention to the details of this ramshackle house, which begins as an emotional lodestone for C and eventually becomes something approaching a prison. A Ghost Story has a keen understanding of the human obsession with things, with details, with tiny snippets of memories—it’s not just his wife that C is trying to re-connect with in death, but the pointless details of his life, the home he built, and the million other things he’s unable to let go of.
The biggest success of A Ghost Story is that it’s neither horrifying nor quite relaxing. It’s a simple fable that ties in beautifully with so many anxieties of the modern era—fears that things will eventually be paved over and forgotten, that without some grander spiritual belief, all that binds us to the world is the people who knew us, and the things we leave behind. In scene after scene, Lowery finds the right way to balance this universal angst with tactile, memorable moments. That precise tension is why A Ghost Story will linger long after you leave the theater, not unlike a sad little man in a sheet shuffling behind you.
Kesha’s recent troubles would seem to sit alongside a few other famous narratives about women accusing men of sexual misconduct to little legal avail. Donald Trump is in office despite allegations of predatory behavior; Bill Cosby took his mistrial as a reason to swagger. Dr. Luke, the recording name of the influential pop producer Lukasz Sebastian Gottwald, has thus far fended off Kesha’s vividly detailed lawsuit alleging he abused her. His reputation is tarnished, yes, and his relationship with Sony Records has become murkier, but Kesha has not succeeded in her attempt to be freed from her record contract with a man she says drugged, raped, and threatened her.
Still, she is claiming victory, though in a compromised, pained way. Today brings “Praying,” the singer’s first bona fide single and music video since the lawsuit. It also brings the announcement of her first album since 2012, Rainbow, as well as an essay at Lenny Letter detailing her recent state of mind. This relaunch does not shy away from acknowledging the difficult saga that has kept Kesha in the headlines in the past few years. In fact, it uses it for grist, proposing a blueprint for overcoming hopelessness, trauma, and betrayal.

There’s no mention of Gottwald’s name in the song or in its rollout, but the major cause of a recent period of deep despair Kesha discusses in her Lenny Letter essay is clear. So is the “someone” in this sentence: “This song is about coming to feel empathy for someone else even if they hurt you or scare you.” The first lines of “Praying” are “you almost had me fooled / Told me that I was nothing without you,” which recalls the text of her 2014 complaint. It alleged Gottwald told her, “You are not that pretty, you are not that talented, you are just lucky to have me,” “There are a million other girls out there like you,” and “You are nothing without me.”
Kesha’s Legal Paradox
The song breaks with the thumping, brash party music that made Kesha famous (“TikTok,” “We R Who We R,” “Die Young,” “Timber”); it’s a deeply felt piano piece produced by Ryan Lewis, the instrumentalist behind Macklemore’s biggest singles. The most obvious predecessors for the song are tragedy-to-triumph empowerment ballads like Christina Aguilera’s “Beautiful” and Lady Gaga’s “Til It Happens to You,” with their soaring but simple choruses and late-song vocal theatrics. Kesha’s voice is powerful here—and more capable than people might expect, as seen when she makes like Mariah Carey and belts a wordless high note.
It’s not only the sound of the song that seems new for Kesha. Part of what once made her such a fascinating pop star was how she projected invulnerability with a kind of un-PC, subversive smartassness. For “Thinking of You,” she dissed a cheating ex-boyfriend by calling him a “slut”; for “Dinosaur,” she fended off an older guy hitting on her by joking he should be carrying an oxygen tank. So she could have responded to the Gottwald situation in like form, through mockery and a renewed sense of invincibility. Then again, Kesha as we once knew her was partly a creation of Gottwald, her longtime producer and coach.
Instead, she’s playing things dead-serious, leaning into her vulnerability but seeking Christlike grace in it. The desperate speech that opens the video requires no interpretation: “If there is a God or whatever, something, somewhere, why have I been abandoned by everyone and everything I’ve ever known?” The song itself isn’t about her own prayers, though. “I hope you find your peace / Falling on your knees, praying,” she tells her tormentor as she bids him farewell. For all the bitterness in her voice, this is a call to love your enemies, even if, as she sings, “some things, only God can forgive.” As for what God is, Kesha’s essay avoids the doctrinal: “God is nature and space and energy and the universe. My own interpretation of spirituality isn’t important, because we all have our own.”
The clearest connection to the Kesha of old is in the video, a high-gloss technicolor pop production from one of the masters of the form, director Jonas Åkerlund (past credits include Madonna’s “Ray of Life,” Lady Gaga’s “Telephone,” and Aguilera’s “Beautiful”). The video ends with text saying “the beginning,” hinting that the ballad vibe here was just prologue. What’s known about the album Rainbow so far hints it won’t be a complete departure from Kesha’s past antics as glam-pop arena rock star: The cover has her nude in a vibrant Salvador Dali-esque hallway, and the song titles include “Bastards,” “Godzilla,” and “Boogie Feet (feat. Eagles of Death Metal).”
There’s another, more jarring bit of continuity here. “Praying” and Rainbow are being released through Kemosabe Records, the imprint that Gottwald founded and that Kesha named as a defendant in her lawsuit. Gottwald himself is no longer CEO of the company, but whether he retains a financial stake or any creative control is less clear. In any case, it is the company she unsuccessfully tried to be cleaved from, and it is inevitably associated with the man who she says made her life hell. The fact that Kemosabe’s name is on her musical declaration of independence adds some queasy poignance to the fact that “Praying” isn’t straightforwardly damning Gottwald or ignoring him. It also explains why she sings this vow: “When I’m finished, they won’t even know your name.”
“When’s our next mission?”
“We’ll call you.”
Peter Parker, a.k.a. Spider-Man, has just completed his first mission with the Avengers, and he’s eager for further adventures. But Tony Stark, a.k.a. Iron Man, thinks Peter could use a bit more seasoning—he’s only 15, after all—and encourages the boy to work on being a “friendly neighborhood Spider-Man” for a while before getting called back up to the Big Show. So he gives the kid the number for his security chief, Happy Hogan. Peter, needless to say, texts and calls—and then texts and calls some more—without response.
It’s a perfect setup for Spider-Man: Homecoming: Peter Parker—high-school nerd, eternal outsider, the guy whose greatest successes somehow wind up feeling like failures—waiting by the phone for a call that never comes.
The Anticipated Spider-Man
When Sony Pictures and Marvel Studios announced they were teaming up to re-boot Spider-Man once more—the third iteration of the character in 15 years—it was easy to be skeptical. Sony’s first bite at the apple, with Tobey Maguire, fell apart by the end, and the second, with Andrew Garfield, barely got off the ground at all. But Marvel demonstrates once again that it knows exactly what it’s doing with one of its premier characters: Homecoming, starring Tom Holland in the titular role, is an utter gas, a fast and very funny superflick that inserts Spidey into the larger Marvel Cinematic Universe without ever losing sight of what makes him unique and beloved.
The movie opens with a mini-movie—really more of a video diary—by Peter himself, briefly recounting the character’s reintroduction as a temporary Avenger in Captain America: Civil War. (“No one has actually told me what I’m doing in Berlin,” he narrates to his smartphone. “Something about Captain America going crazy.”) But when it’s over, it’s over. And Peter, having had a taste of full-on superheroism, is back to being an ordinary, not terribly popular high-schooler in Queens.
Well, not quite ordinary. He still has his superpowers, the high-tech suit with which Stark outfitted him, and an abiding desire to fight crime. If he can find any, that is. To the brilliant accompaniment of the Ramones’ “Blitzkrieg Bop” (Hey! Ho! Let’s go!), Peter confronts an apparent car thief who turns out to be the owner of the vehicle in question, and recovers a stolen bike that may or may not have actually been stolen. But finally he spots a genuine ATM heist being carried out by goons wielding super-high-tech weaponry.
Did you ever wonder what happened to all the futuristic alien gear with which the Chitauri attacked New York in the first Avengers movie? Well in theory, it wound up in the hands of a joint venture between the government and Stark Industries called the Department of Damage Control. But given that 1,500 tons of the stuff was scattered throughout the tri-state area, inevitably some of it fell into the wrong hands. And two of those hands belonged to Adrian Toomes, a construction engineer with a decidedly Trumpian sense of aggrievement at the rich elites (looking at you, Tony Stark) who he believes have looked down at him all his life. To compel them to start looking up, he equips himself with giant turbo-powered wings and goes into business quietly selling weapons constructed from Chitauri technology: black hole grenades, anti-gravity guns, and the world’s nastiest joy buzzer.
Thus, even as it reinvents the typical Marvel hero as a shy kid with a severe high-school crush, Homecoming also reinvents the typical Marvel villain: Toomes—occasionally people refer to him as “Vulture,” though he doesn’t seem to bother with the moniker himself—is not bent on global dominion or destroying the Avengers or any such grandiose endeavor. All he wants is to stay below the radar and make a few bucks selling contraband arms. Needless to say, Spider-Man wants to stop him and, given that he isn’t able to get the Avengers interested, decides to go it alone.
Homecoming gets so many things right that it’s almost difficult to catalog them. For starters, there’s no origin story: no radioactive spider and Uncle Ben getting shot and “with great power comes great responsibility” speech and on and on. If you really don’t know how Peter Parker became Spider-Man, look up one of the earlier movies. Peter does still live with his Aunt May, but she’s been reconceived from an elderly widow to younger surrogate-mom played by a very good Marisa Tomei. (A less successful reconception involves Spidey’s gadget-laden suit, which even talks to him; Stark product or no, it can’t help but feel just a little too Iron Man-y.)
As Peter, Holland exudes a sense of boyish wonder even more boyishly wondrous than that of his predecessors. Robert Downey Jr. and Jon Favreau reprise their longstanding roles as Tony Stark and Happy Hogan, respectively, though the former looks as though he may be tiring of the gig after three Iron Mans, two Avengers, and a Captain America. And Michael Keaton is both marvelously cast—he’s almost certainly the best Marvel villain since Loki—and, post-Birdman, a doubly wicked inside joke on what was already, post-Batman, a wicked inside cinematic joke.
Peter’s classmates at Midtown Tech are a likably diverse bunch, featuring a nice romantic bait and switch (even if you see it coming), and a hilarious turn by Jacob Batalon as Peter’s best friend, Ned. (“Do you lay eggs?” he asks, upon learning his buddy’s super-identity. “Do you spit venom?”) High-school bully Flash Thompson is reinvented from a tall, Aryan jock to a diminutive alpha-geek played by Tony Revolori from The Grand Budapest Hotel. And a teacher played by Martin Starr (Gilfoyle from Silicon Valley) appropriately gets the funniest line in the movie and, arguably, Marvel Studios history to date.
Clever gags are everywhere to be found, which is unsurprising given that the director, Jon Watts, and the many listed screenwriters have their principal roots in TV comedy. The movie’s title, Homecoming, technically refers to Peter’s high-school dance, but it’s foundationally a joke about Spider-Man at last joining the Marvel stable. Captain America’s Chris Evans makes a few cameos in Public Service Announcements on the importance of staying in shape and avoiding detention. (As the gym teacher who shows the first clip drily notes, “I’m pretty sure this guy is a war criminal now.”) High-school girls play “Marry, F***, Kill” with members of the Avengers, and there are witty bits involving the difficulty of webslinging in the suburbs (not enough tall buildings to swing from), Stark’s marital reticence, what comes after “screwing the pooch,” and the iconic upside-down kiss from the 2002 Spider-Man. There’s even a (sort of) invisible jet to make up for the one that went missing from Wonder Woman.
But in the end, it comes down to Marvel’s deep reverence for character, and the studio’s understanding that every superhero is different. After the extraterrestrial meanderings of the Guardians of the Galaxy and the save-the-world mandates of the Avengers—to say nothing of the grim offerings served up by DC Comics pre-Wonder Woman—it feels like just the right time for a friendly, neighborhood Spider-Man. Hey! Ho! Let’s go!
DJ Khaled’s “Wild Thoughts” featuring Rihanna and Bryson Tiller is one of those song that’s so cheesy that it’s hard to believe it exists. Guitar sampled from Carlos Santana’s 1999 schmaltzy smash “Maria Maria” wails over an itchy Destiny’s Child-esque rhythm while Rihanna, seeming to smack her lips, delivers this bit of crass babytalk: “Know you wanna see me nakey, nakey, naked.” All of which, you may have guessed, produces a near-perfect piece of pop that may well become the cookout jam of this July or of this century.
Rihanna’s involvement in this piece of joyful piffle is a sign of a few important trends in pop. Lately, superstar singers have been spending their solo efforts on credibility-boosting concept albums—and outsourcing the manufacture of pure radio bait to a select group of superproducers who specialize in splashy collaborations. Right now, this system has produced a glut of particularly transparent contenders for the title of song of the summer.
‘Despacito’ and the Revenge of Reggaeton
Many of these efforts come from DJ Khaled and Calvin Harris, who have released full-lengths in back-to-back weeks. Khaled is a 41-year-old hip-hop impresario with a long and varied list of accomplishments, while Harris is a 33-year-old Scotsman whose electronic dance creations have been ubiquitous for the better part of a decade. Their albums—Khaled’s Grateful and Harris’s Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1—sound very different, but both pull from the same pool of high-profile singers and rappers, and both suggest that the era of the mercenary posse cut is also an era of total kitsch.

Khaled’s albums are like Michael Bay movies: star-studded, garish, overlong, and a blast. Both on his songs and in his hugely viewed Snapchats, he’s famous for slinging catchphrases about self-worship and success (his most relevant motto of the moment is “another one,” with “one” meaning, roughly, “banger”). But his vocals are less an amenity than a watermark, and his real talent is as a Hollywood-style producer: He calls in the most famous performers in the world as well as the most promising beatmakers, and then catalyzes. Khaled’s previous forte has been in organizing rap-world clashes of titans, but lately he’s connected with pop icons, resulting in his first No. 1 song, “I’m the One,” starring Justin Bieber.
Khaled’s inspirational shtick and tendency to pose with predatory cats have made him unmistakably a camp figure, and Grateful is so excessive that it’s like a banquet with drag queens. That’s in terms of volume—23 songs, nearly an hour and a half long—but also in terms of sentiment: every feeling is a high, every achievement is a high score. The album opens with the reggae singer Sizzla keening over a swell of sound perhaps inspired by “The Circle of Life” before Khaled begins talking about how much he loves his son (the Lion King vibe around his new fatherhood has also been visual). Someone might describe the song as “world music” or even “dad rock”—two terms deemed uncool by the pop establishment. But, somewhat charmingly, the concept of embarrassment doesn’t exist here.
Which is a funny thing because stars whose entire brand is built on some construction of “cool” go to Khaled for a hit. Beyoncé and Jay-Z are both in a phase of telegraphing high-minded, trend-bucking creativity in their solo careers, with her Lemonade and his 4:44 prizing confessional seriousness over escapism. But they lock together for Grateful’s second track, “Shining,” a swaggering aerobic workout aimed squarely at the charts. Neither artist, on their own, makes songs like this anymore—save in extracurricular settings such as this one. You could tell a similar story about Rihanna, whose 2016 full-length Anti signaled a new phase of musical unconventionality. Now there’s “Wild Thoughts,” likely to be immediately injected into wedding-reception playlists worldwide.
Rihanna pulled the same trick last summer but with Calvin Harris, guesting on his jackhammering house tune “This Is What You Came For” to achieve her 21st top-five song. The star has had a productive relationship with Harris, who also co-created her 2011 smashes “We Found Love” and “Where Have You Been.” Those three tracks aptly represented Harris’s general m.o. till now of distilling rave tropes into sleek and simple three-minute blasts. Though his music has rarely been innovative, he does have a knack for making sounds that, well, sound great: The alarm-like keyboard hook from “We Found Love” is one of the greatest pop artifacts of our time.
Now, though, Harris has given himself a surprising musical makeover to sound less like Paul Oakenfold and more like Jimmy Buffet. It’s not subtle: The album’s titled Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1, and Harris has promoted all his recent singles by posting detailed studio credits so as to convey his new interest in analogue instruments. With tinny reggae, hints of smooth jazz, psychedelic funk, and photos in which he’s wearing flower-printed shirts, the vibe he’s going for is “tiki” (quotation marks very much intended). The move would appear well-timed with the EDM boom petering out to the drone of the Chainsmokers and with the pop charts taking on a islands-inspired lilt lately.

Thanks to some sadly tepid songwriting, stretches of Funk Wav Bounces Vol. 1 are more an Instagram of frosé than the actual thing—suggesting relaxation but not really delivering it. There are a few triumphs, though. The lead-off track “Slide,” featuring Frank Ocean and Migos in a piano-and-claps idyll, came out in February but is only sounding more excellent as summer develops. The single “Feels” has Katy Perry and Pharrell Williams working an undeniably sticky melody over guitar skank, and Big Sean, the rapper most associated with the term “corny,” fits in just fine. Another standout, “Skrt on Me,” has Nicki Minaj’s gentle singing tweaked to seem sweeter, as if with Splenda.
Like with Khaled’s album, Harris’s most famous collaborators seem on the hunt for a crowdpleasing summer smash in between efforts more focused on brand-building and artistry. Justin Bieber released his pious statement piece Purpose back in 2015, but in 2017 he’s scored two back-to-back No. 1s with posse cuts perfect for parties: Luis Fonsi’s “Despacito,” and Khaled’s “I’m the One,” the latter of which rides a pleasingly minimal bass line as Lil Wayne, Chance the Rapper, and Quavo trade raunchy verses. Frank Ocean, the most anti-pop pop star working, went to Harris to earn a straightforward bop. And Katy Perry’s turn on Harris’s “Feels” is cleaner-cut than most of her loopy Witness.
On both albums, conventional notions of taste—the idea that some artists don’t go with some sounds—seem to apply less. Khaled can loudly dote on his infant near, say, Pusha T, growling about cocaine. Beyoncé can briefly drop her political mission while drawling about “all of this winning” as if she were Donald Trump. Future can be placed in a context that makes you visualize him as a very gloomy Solid Gold dancer. If much of this material—with its associated imagery of designer tracksuits and cocktail umbrellas—scans as “tacky,” that’s because Khaled and Harris’s albums are gleefully capitalist utopias. No one needs to hide the money it took to make this music, nor the money they seek to make with it.
The heart of Snowfall, John Singleton’s new FX series about the origins of the crack epidemic, is Franklin Saint (Damson Idris), a smart, kindhearted teenager who takes care of his mother, keeps the neighborhood kids in line, works nights in a bodega, and sells weed on the side for his uncle Jerome (Amin Joseph). One day, a white friend from his fancy high school in the Valley recruits Franklin to procure more cocaine for his pool party. “You afraid to go get it, so send a black guy, right?” Franklin says, quizzically. “I’ll be the black guy. Shit, I’m always the black guy.” Which is how he finds himself in the house of a comical Israeli cocaine dealer (Andrew Howard) who only sells in bulk. And senses an opportunity.
Snowfall is full of moments like this—scenes and interludes that attempt to put the complex racial and geopolitical dynamics of the 1980s drug trade in context. Franklin is just one of a revolving cast of characters who see the growing enthusiasm for cocaine in the U.S. as a way to further their own ambitions, while staying willfully blind to the consequences. There’s Teddy McDonald (Carter Hudson), a disgraced CIA agent who gets involved in an off-the-books operation with Nicaraguan Contras to try and resurrect his career. And Lucia (Emily Rios), the niece of a drug lord who stages a robbery to fund her own business. In its sprawling consideration of the many different players who kickstarted an epidemic, Snowfall ticks all the boxes of a prestige drug drama. But its characters often feel like ciphers, generic stand-ins for the various factions implicated in cocaine’s rise. Singleton can’t quite get to the core of why these sympathetic and intelligent people would be so willing to risk everything for a business whose ugliest elements seem to horrify them.
The Norwegian Teen-Drama Series Loved Around the World
The simple answers (money, power, prestige, danger) don’t seem convincing. When Franklin nets his first big payday from a kilo he’s able to sell, he buys a motorbike … which he then has to hide from his disapproving mother (The Wire’s Michael Hyatt). (This much is historically accurate: “Freeway” Rick Ross, the former head of a crack empire in Los Angeles, once told the reporter Gary Webb that he invested his money in property so his mother wouldn’t catch on to his dealings.) But Franklin, who cries in the car after his first encounter with a dealer who puts a gun in his face, who pleads with a gangster not to beat a man who’s robbed him, and who can’t steel himself to murder rivals, seems fundamentally ill-suited for the drug trade. “You soft as a baby’s head, bro,” a dealer tells him. Idris, imported from Britain, is terrific as Franklin, but he can’t get to grips with depths the character doesn’t have. When Franklin quits the game midway at the end of the fourth episode, you exhale with relief; when he suddenly dives back in again after a vague confrontation with his father (The Leftovers’s Kevin Carroll, shamefully underused), it’s baffling.
Teddy is easily the least sympathetic character, although Hudson gives him a dopey schoolboyish charm that belies his manipulative streak. Once again, Teddy seems dismayed by the corpses he has to dispose of, the collateral damage of missing women and murdered children. But mostly he seems to be having a blast whipping on a pair of retro spectacles and pretending to be a drug lord (a subplot involving his former partner and his two-year-old child is the most pointless part of the story). The real involvement of the CIA in helping the Contras distribute cocaine in the U.S. was explored by Gary Webb in the “Dark Alliance” series published in the San Jose Mercury News. Webb’s accusations remain contentious; there isn’t nearly enough in the show to be able to re-litigate them.
One issue that seems to belabor proceedings is that Snowfall is, above all, an origin story. There’s no mention of the word “crack” in the first six episodes. Cocaine is a white man’s drug, snorted by partiers oblivious to the human cost of the cartels that supply it. In many ways, the first 10 episodes feel like the first season of so many Netflix superhero shows: preamble that necessarily gets the show to a place where it can delve deeper into the story it wants to tell in future seasons. There are moments of absurd comedy that bring to mind better shows like Breaking Bad—particularly a scene where Franklin and his friend Leon (Isaiah John) crank up The Carpenters at a stop sign to disguise the sounds of a man yelling in the trunk of their car. But Snowfall rarely offers its characters the kind of moral and emotional complexity that made Walter White or Stringer Bell so enthralling. Singleton seems to want his characters to be sympathetic above all, but the result is that their actions don’t make sense.
One virtue of the show is that it’s gorgeous, with hazy tracking shots of L.A. in warm sunshine, and a diegetic, funk-filled  soundtrack that contributes to a nostalgic view of South Central in the early ’80s. (Singleton reportedly had bars on windows removed from homes in the neighborhood while filming to give some sense of what it was like before cocaine hit.) And the setup offers plenty of potential for future seasons. It would be valuable if, for example, Snowfall could let viewers compare the harsh response to African American communities blighted by crack with the considerably more sympathetic contemporary treatment of the opioid epidemic. But for now, the first series is barely a tragedy of errors—a mostly rote analysis of how a confluence of circumstances and greedy individuals contributed to the rise of a drug whose toll was incalculable.
Take a quick glance at the box-office returns for June, and you could draw an easy conclusion: Hollywood has a franchise problem. Films like Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales, Transformers: The Last Knight, The Mummy, and Cars 3 have all underperformed, each making hundreds of millions less than their immediate forebears (or, in the case of The Mummy, a Brendan Fraser film that came out in 1999). But to think that, you’d have to ignore some of the biggest hits of the year: Wonder Woman, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2, The Fate of the Furious, and Logan, all new entries in long-running franchises.
As simple as it sounds, Hollywood has, instead, a bad-movie problem—one that’s exacerbated by how easily the industry serves up sequels to the increasingly important global market. The refrain is always the same: Who cares if the fifth Transformers is drawing little enthusiasm in the United States when it’s doing well in China? But that defense is becoming more specious, as international audiences are also seemingly growing tired of the endless assembly line of action films, while the biggest box-office story of 2017 is the success of smaller-budgeted original films.
Transformers: The Last Knight Is More of the Same
Laying blame at the feet of Rotten Tomatoes, and its increasingly essential “Tomatometer” (which measures the number of good and bad reviews each new release receives), has become the excuse du jour for anonymous studio executives. Rotten Tomatoes is supposedly why The House, a comedy that wasn’t even screened for critics, flopped. A few weeks ago, sources complained to Deadline about the underperformance of Pirates 5 and Baywatch, both of which were critically drubbed, claiming that “once upon a time these types of films — a family adventure and a raunchy R-rated comedy — were critic-proof.”
The sheer absurdity of this statement hinges on the use of “once upon a time.” In reality, once upon a time, Hollywood probably wouldn’t have bothered to make a fifth Pirates movie after the fourth entry, On Stranger Tides, grossed considerably less than the first three, and couldn’t even make up its (huge) budget at the domestic box office. Once upon a time, defunct TV properties like Baywatch weren’t considered safe bets to be turned into expensive summer tentpoles. Audiences didn’t avoid these films because they got bad reviews; they avoided them because they were never interested in them in the first place.
The same goes for a fifth Transformers, another Cars movie, or a reboot of The Mummy—the first two were sequels to films that got bad reviews and made less money, signs their respective studios chose to ignore in favor of their overall brand recognition. The latter was an even more audacious gamble, an attempt by Universal to turn a beloved horror film into an action franchise even though its previous efforts (the films Van Helsing and Dracula Untold) along the same lines did badly. Attaching Tom Cruise to star was supposed to carry The Mummy over the line, but instead all it did was further tarnish the box-office reputation of one of Hollywood’s last remaining superstars.
Yes, almost all of the aforementioned domestic failures are doing well overseas. Pirates 5 has collected $711 million worldwide, Transformers 5 has $435 million to date, and even The Mummy (which has taken a paltry $75 million in America) has made $350 million. Those totals are enough to keep these movies from being true financial catastrophes, but they’re all below expectations and smaller than those of earlier films in their franchises. The same, it seems, will go for Despicable Me 3, which opened to $75 million last weekend (versus $115 million for previous entry Minions).
But there are plenty of signs of trouble abroad. Transformers: The Last Knight indeed opened to a healthy $123 million in China, but that total collapsed by 75 percent in its second week. More and more, studios are flooding Chinese theaters on their films’ opening weekends to guarantee a huge initial take and offset disappointing numbers in the U.S. But Chinese audiences’ enthusiasm for that strategy appears to be waning (as a fascinating Hollywood Reporter look at the Chinese theater experience suggests). Hollywood studios are also partnering with major Chinese studios like Huahua Media and Wanda Film for these roll-outs; as such, their cuts of worldwide box-office numbers are getting smaller.
Meanwhile, in America, two of the biggest profit-makers of the year (Get Out and Split) were non-sequels made for low budgets by exciting directors (Jordan Peele and M. Night Shyamalan respectively). Last weekend, Edgar Wright’s Baby Driver, an original, R-rated heist thriller that got rave reviews, outperformed expectations, grossing $30 million (close to its total budget) in five days. The “specialty” release The Beguiled, only showing in 674 theaters, made more money last weekend than The Mummy, which is still on 1,760 screens. Yes, there are big-budget follow-ups at the top of the year’s box-office charts, but those were all well-received. Audiences aren’t rejecting sequels; they just aren’t rushing to see re-treads of properties they’ve already lost interest in. And it’s still not clear if Hollywood is ready to take that message seriously.

In 2012, the NFL linebacker Jovan Belcher took his life in front of his teammates after fatally shooting his girlfriend. Months earlier, the Hall-of-Famer Junior Seau killed himself three years after retirement. They, like many other football players, showed symptoms of Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease caused by repeated blows to the head. Signs of the disease are not exclusive to the sport (or to athletes). Last year, 12 former wrestlers filed a class-action suit against the WWE over the “long-term neurological injuries” they sustained as employees.
Such developments may dim, or at least complicate, the glow of triumph often promised to players in exchange for their bodily sacrifice. In his debut novel, Stephen Florida, Gabe Habash examines the dark side of this transaction through his eponymous character, an intensely competitive young wrestler at a college in North Dakota. Following Stephen through his last year in school, Habash questions not only the true cost of achieving athletic greatness, but also how masculinity—defined in part by vengefulness, violence, and stoicism—can drive men to behave in self-glorifying and self-defeating ways.
Stephen Florida begins in the aftermath of a struggle. “My mother had two placentas and I was living off both of them,” the narrator says, setting the stage for a story centered on competition and the toll of a fight for survival. Though its primary subject is wrestling, the book is more a study of the manifold ways men relate to each other. It reads a bit like Chad Harbach’s coming-of-age story The Art of Fielding invaded by the characters from Roberto Bolaño’s The Savage Detectives, a novel obsessed with the absurd nature of manhood. But unlike Bolaño’s novel, Stephen Florida refuses to romanticize its male characters and their exploits, instead exposing the emptiness of their hunger for recognition. Where Harbach champions the camaraderie of a college-baseball team, Habash focuses on the individuality and isolation of a single wrestler.
Stephen Florida bluntly recognizes that its narrator’s relentless commitment to winning could lead to his death. Though talented, Stephen has never won a national championship and thinks about the title “every day, every hour, at least 20 times an hour.” This obsession shapes Stephen’s voice. He speaks with clipped intensity, his voice a deranged mix of puerile humor, bodily fixation, and the sort of phrases you might find pinned over locker-room doors: “Wrestling is, at its core, one passion set against another passion for the purpose of determining which is stronger.” Habash nicely captures the messiness of athlete slang—idiosyncratic and clichéd, philosophically blunt, and, despite its flights into sexism and homophobia, a language lunging toward tenderness. “Let’s go, sweet child. I’ll tuck you in,” Stephen tells a teammate before bed.
Intimacy and violence intersect throughout the novel. Sparring with a teammate, Stephen describes the “outgrown nubby flaps of skin all down his [teammate’s] spine,” a condition that disgusts opponents but attracts women in the library. The wrestlers are deeply familiar with each other’s bodies, yet reject the implications of getting so close. This is especially true for Stephen and his only friend on the team, a freshman named Linus. Their teammates make homophobic jokes at their expense because, in Stephen’s mind, they’re “the best two wrestlers on the team.” In the minds of the wrestlers, men can only relate as opponents or lovers, in approved or shameful terms.
The intimate friendship shared by Linus and Stephen does not fit within this simple binary. Though they are as close as lovers—and thus assumed to be gay—their connection is not erotic. Linus’s naivety, humility, and superior skills offset Stephen’s megalomania and ambition: “I am more enthusiasm than talent, so what happens if my enthusiasm is taken away?” Stephen wonders, in a rare moment of vulnerability. Though Stephen tries to assume a paternal role, Linus does the caretaking, buying Stephen sandwiches when he’s hurt and gifting him sticks of deodorant.
Romantically, Stephen proves rather inept, subverting the image of the athlete who attracts women easily. He briefly dates Mary Beth, a funny, intelligent artist who overlooks his asceticism and social incompetence. His affection for her is intense, awkward—not surprising for a college courtship—and his feelings, though genuine, seem compromised by the hypercompetitive logic of wrestling: “There have been ten billion women in the world, stretching, speaking, itching, laughing, eating, burping, and none of them have made the impression Mary Beth has made.” To Stephen, there is no better compliment than to be ranked number one.   
A marked shift in the novel’s content and form comes when a midseason knee injury derails Stephen’s training, and he chooses a quick fix over a more thorough repair. The straightforward shape of the story’s first section crumbles in its second, becoming a fragmented collage of delusions and dreams. Here, Stephen goes from being lovably ambitious to dangerously narcissistic: He sabotages Linus, stands up Mary Beth, steals a truck, spies on a professor he thinks is a murderer, and trespasses at the home of the wrestler who injured his knee.
Stephen isn’t the only character in the novel struggling with destructive impulses. One player fluctuates between losing and gaining 40 pounds at the behest of the coach. An assistant coach sexually assaults a player. Stephen shadows an oil-field worker who spends his nights alone reading violent erotica. At the oil fields where he works for a day, Stephen gets reduced to a body: either a laborer or a lover to the man a career counselor has tasked him with observing. Stephen fills a similar role for a male professor who seeks to seduce him despite his objections. These men all share an inescapable loneliness intensified by a desire to possess what they want—in Stephen’s case, a championship—that on a larger scale hardly seems worth it.
The energy Stephen puts into wrestling chips away at his mental health, and following his injury, full scenes regularly give way to decontextualized thoughts. Stephen might watch a sparrow hop around in a parking lot, for instance, then say, for no apparent reason, “I smear myself all over the inside of my room.” His breakdown feels like the only appropriate outcome for a person stripped of his one defining quality. Wrestling, quite literally, gives Stephen his identity. His real name is Steven Forster, but his wrestling-scholarship letter was mistakenly addressed to Stephen Florida, so he took on the name. For Stephen, nothing matters outside of the sport: “I would trade my family and Linus and Mary Beth and all the kid friends I had growing up that I can’t remember anymore for a championship in Kenosha.”
Stephen’s mindset has its roots in the myth of the self-made man, in a culture that often excuses cruelty toward others as a necessary component of male genius. This sort of selfishness might drive one toward what are historically considered masculine aims, like honor or power. However, in the figure of Stephen, whose wrestling career is destined to be forgotten, Habash reveals the futility of athletic greatness, a goal that all but requires desensitization. “If you just buy into the craziness, you’re a lot better off,” Stephen says early in the book, speaking to wrestling, but also to the unobtainable ideals of manliness that help push him beyond his limits.
Stephen’s most prominent act of “buying in” is his decision to ignore how wrestling has destroyed his body. The novel rarely dwells on the potential consequences of wrestling through injury; rather, Habash glorifies certain aspects of Stephen’s sacrifice. This is not a shortcoming of the book, but an unfortunate byproduct of writing about athletes, who, throughout their careers, are often confronted with the kind of choice Achilles faced: self-annihilating glory or longevity? Even knowing what Stephen has endured, it’s easy for readers to root for his return to the mat—who would ever cheer for Achilles to choose a long, happy life? Stephen’s comeback cleverly forces readers to question their complicity as sports fans. Even readers keenly aware of how dangerous Stephen’s pursuit of the championship is might want him to press on, if only so that his suffering is “worth it” in the end.
Impressively, Habash traces Stephen’s increasing derangement without resorting to clichés. The novel is both funny and authentically creepy, and even as his mental health and relationships deteriorate, Stephen remains consistently surprising, accessible, and engaging. Stephen Florida’s grim portrait of ambition led astray captures how competitiveness and masculinity can unravel those who blindly follow its codes. In Habash’s world, to man up is to break down. The growing number of stories about real-life athletes suffering similar crises has made that idea especially—and regrettably—timely.
This story contains major plot spoilers for Baby Driver.
The title character of Walter Hill’s 1978 classic heist movie The Driver might as well be making his entrance from the pits of hell. The opening shot of the movie sees Ryan O’Neal rise into focus, riding a one-man valet elevator in a parking garage, as the dirge-like score hums atonally. The Driver doesn’t have a name—nobody in the film does—and he barely has a personality. He’s just a wraith behind the wheels, leading the cops on a grim chase through the streets of Los Angeles on behalf of his bank-robber clients. The opening set-piece of The Driver is nearly wordless; it’s just a cacophony of squealing tires and police sirens, ending with the driver escaping and vanishing into the night.
The Driver is one of many touchstones the director Edgar Wright has cited as an inspiration for his new film Baby Driver. Like all of Wright’s works, the movie wears its influences openly, indulging in hat-tips and visual calling cards. But unlike his previous horror-comedy Shaun of the Dead, or the zany action flick Hot Fuzz, Baby Driver isn’t a mash-up that takes one genre and mixes in self-referential laughs to tell a story about Gen Xers struggling to grow up. Baby Driver is, in its plotting, a straightforward heist flick, opening in almost exactly the same way The Driver does—with a dialogue-free car chase featuring the taciturn, sunglasses-wearing Baby (Ansel Elgort) driving his bank-robber buddies out of the police’s grasp.
Baby Driver Is a Tribute to the Magic of the Earbud
The key difference is the mood, mostly indicated by the music: Baby Driver (reviewed by my colleague Christopher Orr here) is set to a bouncy, eclectic soundtrack, hand-picked by Wright, that is constantly playing in Baby’s earbuds (he has a diverse collection of iPods) as he roars through the motorways of Atlanta. While his crew wreaks havoc at the bank they’re robbing, Baby sits in the car, lip-syncing gleefully to “Bellbottoms” by The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion. The ensuing chase with the cops is just like The Driver’s—all squealing tires and blaring sirens, no talking—but when set to pop music, it becomes a free-spirited romp.
Rather than create a knowing comedy out of his favorite genre films, Wright makes Baby Driver a concentrated caper flick. The movie is wrapped up in many of the visual hallmarks of the genre, but it also, unusually, hinges on its protagonist’s moral growth—his evolution from willing stooge to reluctant hero. His youth aside, Baby looks just like the heartless anti-heroes of films like Heat, Reservoir Dogs, Vanishing Point, and The Italian Job; early on, when the bank robber Griff (Jon Bernthal) snatches the sunglasses off his face, Baby immediately replaces them with a different pair. He lives a largely anonymous life, haunting the diner his dead mother used to work at and waiting for his boss Doc (Kevin Spacey) to call him for another job.
But while the heist movies Wright adores usually end with the anti-hero either driving off into the unknown, or dying in a hail of gunfire, Baby Driver sees Baby ultimately betraying his criminal colleagues, killing the two deadliest (played by Jamie Foxx and Jon Hamm), serving time in prison, and eventually getting released into the arms of his true love Debora (Lily James). The film has been dismissed by some critics as a stylish, but empty, genre exercise by Wright. But I think he’s quite boldly trying to do two compelling things at once: hold true to the cool, detached iconography of the getaway-driver movie, while layering in a surprising, but heartfelt, moral transformation.
That’s why the earbuds are so crucial. They aren’t just Wright’s excuse to jazz up the car chases and turn them into toe-tapping musical sequences. Right from the opening shots, Baby is doggedly trying to block out the nasty mayhem around him (in addition to his tinnitus). As he’s enthusiastically lip-syncing to “Bellbottoms,” he throws a couple of glances over his shoulder at the bank, where Griff is aggressively firing his shotgun into the air. Later in the film, when Doc kills JD (Lanny Joon) for screwing up a heist, Baby has to dispose of the car with his body in it, a task he performs while listening to the Commodores’ “Easy” (a song he associates with his dead mother).
Baby’s habit of recording conversations he overhears (one that eventually gets him into trouble) feels like a similar way of blinkering out the bleakness. He literally steals the dialogue of the heartless criminals he works with and transforms it into sunny dance music, remixing it with his home-DJ kit. Eventually, he can no longer ignore the monstrousness surrounding him, partly because of the aggressively psychotic Bats (Foxx, wonderfully demented) and the berserker rage of Buddy (Hamm, who lets completely loose in the film’s final act), and partly because of his love for Debora and his need to protect his kindly foster father Joseph (CJ Jones).
So many heist movies revolve around their dispassionate protagonists’ professionalism, and the chaos that ensues when they snap in some way. Neil McCauley (Robert De Niro) of Heat meets his downfall when he pursues a personal vendetta against a former colleague who betrayed him. Reservoir Dogs ends in a bloodbath because of the unpredictable, psychotic Mr. Blonde (Michael Madsen). The nameless hero of Drive, the director Nicolas Winding Refn’s own much darker homage to The Driver, loses his way when he kills someone (brutally, with a hammer) to defend the woman he loves.
In Baby Driver, when Baby finally breaks, it’s because he can’t drown things out any longer. As Doc’s crew is robbing a post office, Baby dissuades one of its employees from going inside, wanting to spare her from the violence; she instead summons a security guard, and everything goes south from there. Rather than spiriting the robbers away, Baby drives his car straight into a truck, deliberately killing Bats and sabotaging their getaway. His planned escape with Debora ends with him surrendering to the police, but before then, the mere sight of the couple is enough to convince Doc not to kill them. “I was in love once,” he commiserates, before meeting his own grisly end trying to save them from Buddy.
Wright has talked about Baby’s moral shift being the crux of his movie. His appearance on Amy Nicholson’s podcast The Canon, where they discuss The Driver, is essential listening for any die-hard fan of the director. Wright has long made films about people growing up and learning how to be adults—there’s the “Cornetto trilogy” he made with the actor and co-writer Simon Pegg, and his video-game-generation masterpiece Scott Pilgrim vs. the World. But Baby Driver, the first film he’s written by himself, is concerned with a more elemental character arc, befitting the stripped-down world of the heist movie. Viewers are embracing the story’s kinetic thrills and sense of humor, but equally praiseworthy is Wright’s ambitious effort to take his genre-comedy sensibility to a meaningful new level.
For much of the 20th century, if you asked someone to define “community,” they’d very likely give you an answer that involved a physical location. One’s community derived from one’s place—one’s literal place—in the world: one’s school, one’s neighborhood, one’s town. In the 21st century, though, that primary notion of “community” has changed. The word as used today tends to involve something at once farther from and more intimate than one’s home: one’s identity. “A body of people or things viewed collectively,” the Oxford English Dictionary sums it up. Community, in this sense, is not merely something that one fits into; it is also something one chooses for oneself, through a process of self-discovery. It is based on shared circumstances, certainly, but offers a transcendent kind of togetherness. It is active rather than passive. The LGBTQ community. The Latino community. The intelligence community. The journalism community.
For Bill Bishop, the author of The Big Sort:Why the Clustering of Like-Minded America Is Tearing Us Apart, that semantic shift speaks to a much broader transformation in American life. It speaks to the rise of the individual as a guiding force in culture; it speaks as well to the declining power of institutions to offer that guidance. As Bishop told a group at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-sponsored by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic: “It used to be that people were born as part of a community, and had to find their place as individuals. Now people are born as individuals, and have to find their community.”  
That change is on display, he said, in many facets of American culture, political and otherwise. Marriage, Bishop noted, is today commonly conceived less as a semi-self-sacrificial commitment—forsaking all others—and more as a means to deeper personal fulfillment. Journalism today is more and more commonly rendered in the first person, explicitly or implicitly, because the personal voice strikes many readers as more trustworthy than the institutional. In business, often, the willingness to break rules  (“radical creativity”) is valued much more highly than the ability to fit in.
“I’m not saying any of these are good or bad,” Bishop noted. “It’s just a switch in how we’re living in the world.” And that switch is perhaps most obvious in electoral politics, which, Bishop argued, has become “less about issues now than it is about asserting one’s identity.”
You could also argue that the issues are entirely about identity, and vice versa. What’s clear, however, is that the notion of “identity” itself—the word skyrocketed in usage starting in the second half of the 20th century—is changing our understanding of “community.” What is also clear is that identity, as a concept, is becoming solidified in American culture.
That’s in part a response to our changing communications technologies, Bishop pointed out. For one thing, Facebook and Tumblr and Twitter and Snapchat and their many fellow services emphasizes identity through a combination of consumption and performance: On Facebook, for example, one’s favorite music and one’s favorite news sites and the memes and jokes one shares suggest, in the aggregate, not just what they like, but who they are. For another thing, social media services, as information-sharing platforms, elide the gatekeeping function that traditional media once played. Friends trump faceless organizations. Familiarity trumps expertise. The digital world has both allowed for and ratified a culture of extreme individualism. As far as information goes, as Bishop put it: “I get to decide what’s true or not.”
What will that situation mean for the country, as a collection not just of individuals, but also of communities? There’s reason, in one way, for pessimism. Alain Ehrenberg, in The Weariness of the Self, notes how psychologically exhausting it can be to be so constantly self-reliant. (As Bishop put it, “we’re not capable of doing that kind of self-construction every day.”) So identity construction, Ehrenberg argues, is at the root of things like depression, drug use, and even suicide. Defined that way, “identity” as a concept might, paradoxically, prove a challenge to American individuals.
And yet—here is the optimistic take—identity is also politically empowering. “Community,” in the transcendent sense of the word, is empowering. The culture of individualism Bishop argues for may bring Bowling Alone-style sacrifices of social capital in physical communities; it can also bring with it, however, a different kind of social capital: one in which the individual person, rather than the group, is primary. One in which the very thing the founders wanted for the country they envisioned—a people who were united not just by mutable circumstance, but also by shared values—is realized. “Community,” after all, the OED notes, is rooted in the Middle French communité. The word may have come to suggest a “body of people who live in the same place,” but, initially, it meant something much simpler and much more powerful: “joint ownership.”
On Sunday, the president of the United States tweeted out a video. The grainy clip featured old footage repurposed for a new world: It depicted a pre-White House Donald Trump engaged in a bit of theatrical violence that played out during a 2007 WrestleMania event. In it, the pre-president, clad in a suit, body-slammed and then repeatedly punched another man—a man made anonymous because his face, in the edited video, had been obscured with the familiar logo of the Cable News Network.
#FraudNewsCNN #FNN pic.twitter.com/WYUnHjjUjg
The tweet was, in one sense, yet another volley in the White House’s long-running battle against the American media—one that has in recent days noticeably ratcheted up. And it was yet another example of the president’s seemingly gladiatorial approach to the world and its doings: a Darwinian environment where life’s inherent rivalries resolve themselves in violence. But the tweet was also something much simpler than any of that: It was, on the most basic level, a joke. The video was absurd on its (logo-obscured) face. The president, fighting CNN! Or, rather, FNN, because fake news! Trump had sent out, essentially, a nationwide wink.
So the tweet took Trump’s longstanding animosity toward the news media in general and CNN in particular and distilled it down to something relatable and recognizable and, in theory, unobjectionable: laughter. It washed hatred over with humor.
Are We Having Too Much Fun?
The WrestleMania-ed tweet in that sense was both extremely bizarre—“an unorthodox way for a sitting president to express himself,” The New York Times dutifully summed it up—and completely at home in the media environment of the present moment. Jokes, after all, have long been used to soften political point-making: There they are at political protests, and there they are on late-night television, shaping Americans’ knowledge of the political debates whose outcomes will determine our collective future. And hatred, too, has eagerly adopted the guise of the joke to spread its messaging. Richard Spencer, the white nationalist, has a sly sense of irony. So does 4chan. This is a time in which the most recognizable symbol of white supremacy in American culture is a loopy-grinned cartoon frog.
What happens, though, when hatred renders so easily as a joke? And what happens, in particular, when the president of the United States uses his vast platform not only to celebrate violence, but also to suggest that violence is funny? As the writer Wajahat Ali noted at a recent panel at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-sponsored by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic, “Trump, as the commander in chief, uses the pulpit and the platform of the office to tweet hate.” The president eschews the one-America logic that has guided the communications strategies of so many past presidencies—the language that aims to unify the nation in its measured appeals to the mass public—and uses his platform instead both to pick fights and to maintain the ones he has started. Trump has put the “bully” in “bully pulpit.”
It’s a significant shift—not merely because presidential angry-tweets have, in their reach, the potential to incite violence, and not merely because they are, as CNN put it in a statement about the WrestleMania video, notably “juvenile.” Tweets like that video, and the many others that have preceded it, also normalize hatred itself. They suggest a zero-sum world: a world of friends and enemies, a world of winners and losers, a world in which struggle is not the exception, but, by pugilistic necessity, the rule. The president, with each 140-character message, takes that old, optimistic bromide—there is more that connects us, as Americans, than divides us—and flips it. He suggests that division and tribalism and fear and hatred will guide America’s politics and its future.
What’s even more troubling: He might have reason to make that suggestion. Grainy video of a sucker-punching president neatly captures a shift that has transpired slowly and then mind-bogglingly quickly in recent years: Hatred has come into the mainstream. Fear and its common companion, animosity—directed toward immigrants, toward minorities, toward women, toward the news media—are becoming more and more normalized in our cultural conversations. They are living less and less at the margins of American life.
Hatred, of course, has always been part of that life. As Heidi Beirich, of the Southern Poverty Law Center, pointed out on the same panel, “the country was obviously white supremacist from its founding.” In recent years, however, Ali noted, hate groups like the Ku Klux Klan (the SPLC currently counts 54 such groups) existed for the most part at the outskirts of society. They hated, as is their constitutional right, but they were judged for it and ostracized for it by the broader body of American politics. Their ideas were, in the Overton sense, unthinkable. The window of acceptability was closed to them.
No longer, Ali suggested. The rise of social media has allowed hatred to be both concretized—sharable tracts, meme-able images, Pepe—and, then, amplified. Digital capabilities have meant, as well, that haters can find likeminded people, across the distance. Which has meant in turn that hatred has become empowered as never before. Recent months have seen acts of hate directed against transgender women, Jews, African Americans, Latinos, Muslims, Hindu Americans, Sikh Americans, and others. Acts of anti-semitism, a recent study from the Anti-Defamation League found, spiked 86 percent during the first months of 2017—an increase from what had already been a surge of such incidents the previous year.
Into that environment comes a president who regularly makes light of hatred—who implies, one tweet at a time, that hostility is normal and, worse, kind of funny. When the president mean-tweets about Mika Brzezinski, or about Frank Luntz, or about CNN, he is doing it, it seems, out of a sense of real rage, but also because he assumes that animosity itself is entertaining. Slob. Loser. Failing. Psycho. The insults and epithets reduce people to the thing the president best understands: media brands. They treat humans, collectively, as actors in an epic war story in which Trump will always be—must always be—the victor. But they also assume that even war stories can be funny, and that violence, when presented with the right kind of wink, can be a great source of humor. Calm down, the president’s tweets say. It’s all just a joke.
“Hello, dearly liberated from the streets of our revolution, today we’ve got news from the front lines, tunes from the underground, and every political beat you need to get through your week.”
So begins each podcast produced by Chaos, the media collective that is, in its way, a protagonist of The City Always Wins. Omar Robert Hamilton’s debut follows Egypt’s revolution as if in real time, chronicling the aftermath of the 2011 uprising in Tahrir Square through the experiences of Khalil, an Egyptian-Palestinian-American; Mariam, his Egyptian girlfriend; and their colleagues at Chaos, which they’ve founded in response to the state-controlled media. (It closely resembles the non-fictional Mosireen collective that Hamilton, a writer and filmmaker who “moved to Egypt looking for [his] Spanish Revolution,” helped found.)
The Leavers Is a Wrenching Tale of Parenthood
The City Always Wins, though billed as a novel, reads more like an experiment in revolutionary reporting. To put it another way, Hamilton’s book is itself a version of the project its protagonists are engaged in. He puts immediacy front and center as he constructs a galvanizing record of what it felt like to be young and hopeful in a particular time and place. At the same time, The City Always Wins strives to tell a cohesive story—the goal, certainly at first, that inspires its characters, too. For many, to be young and hopeful in that time and place, as the denizens of Chaos know well, was to be concerned with mediating information, processing the raw material of the streets to create podcasts, videos, and tweets.
“@ChaosCairo,” a tweet proclaims early on, is “essential listening.”  It will also be, by the end of the book, all but defunct, another victim of a struggle whose outcome failed to affirm the surging optimism of its early days. “We were naive, no doubt,” Hamilton has written of his own experience, “but the whole world was naive with us.” To recount those days in traditional novelistic form, Hamilton seems to be arguing in The City Always Wins, might be yet another act of naiveté; processing their complexity will require a new kind of storytelling.
The challenge he tackles is to simultaneously evoke the thrilling energy of optimism, and to impart, just as vividly, the confusion of its wreckage—to forego filtering the story through the disappointment of hindsight even as he also illustrates just how that disappointment gradually took hold. The book proceeds linearly, but the titles of its three parts signal that time does not bring anything like a steady forward march: First comes “Tomorrow,” then “Today,” and then, finally, “Yesterday.” The short subsections shift, sometimes bewilderingly, among first-, second-, and third-person (plural and singular) perspectives, between dialogue and stream of consciousness, between poetic evocation and prosaic fact. A page can look like a found poem of news reports, or a block of detailed description of a single moment. Text messages are right at home here; so are passages from the Marxist historian Eric Hobsbawm. You won’t find out much about Khalil and Mariam’s romantic life, but you will learn how their sleep patterns adjust to keep pace with their revolutionary activities.
The novel begins nine months after Mubarak’s fall; the army has taken over and the human costs of revolution are already apparent. Still, the young activist-producers working long nights in Chaos’s dilapidated Cairo office (“a cerebral cortex at the center of the information war”) remain indefatigably idealistic. “The revolution,” they believe, “is unstoppable.” Hamilton grounds the optimism of “Tomorrow” in his characters’ faith in the democratic power of technology. In one passage, Mariam reflects on the odds of the collective “us” against the counterrevolutionary “them”:
Readers may initially be swayed by these zealous tropes, but before “Tomorrow” is through their sheer abundance starts to expose the precariousness of such willful faith. Hope begins to look like youthful hubris as the Islamist Muslim Brotherhood rises to power and the bullets keep coming. Information can indeed be outmaneuvered.
By “Today,” Hamilton has succeeded in sowing doubts about the efficacy of communication to change the course of history. The section picks up with Mohamed Morsi’s November 2012 power grab, some ten months after “Tomorrow” left off. Politically, Khalil knows, “this is the nightmare scenario.” Adding to his dismay is “the hectoring paternalism of the international commentariat,” which Hamilton himself lamented at the time, and which he compellingly condemns here by juxtaposing on-the-ground scenes with newspaper and magazine headlines. Egyptians are the “world’s best protesters,” declared a 2013 Time cover, and the “world’s worst democrats.” A reader immersed in Chaos’s inner circle can’t fail to see how misguided such pronouncements were, which doesn’t stop their proliferation. Winning the information war comes to feel more crucial—and more difficult—than ever. “How many last breaths will we auction off to the breathless internet?,” one member of the group wonders.
Throughout the novel, Hamilton has alluded to the moral questions this dilemma poses, but not until “Yesterday,” told entirely from Khalil’s perspective, do they come to a head. As Chaos splinters and the public appears to be falling in line behind a new president, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi, we get a riveting, and at times painful, rendering of one man’s attempt to make sense of what virtues remain in the act of documenting a losing battle. As an American, Khalil knows that he can leave Egypt at will, even as his friends and comrades get severely injured and face imprisonment in the name of the revolutionary struggle. “Maybe freedom is nothing more than the taste of guilt,” he concludes. Here, Hamilton is deftly implicating himself and the reader alike—how much does watching a revolution unfold, even for the sake of recording it, really achieve?
That urgent query animates The City Always Wins. Hamilton ventures a high-wire act in balancing his self-reflexive endeavor with the imperatives of a good novel—character development, narrative arc—and he doesn’t always pull it off. The novel’s deliberate disorientation can be vexing. The paradox of this book is that it communicates the realities of the revolution most clearly when it’s least self-conscious about the problem of communication—when Hamilton dwells, instead, in the uncertainty of the evolving moment; when screens fade into the background, and immersion in the scene takes over. His ability to transport readers there affirms that the engaged witness, while not all-powerful, is nonetheless essential. “What else do we have left to fight with?” Hamilton asked in a 2016 essay for The Guardian, looking back on the events of 2011. “That memory of possibility is all we have.”
One of the first video games I ever played—if not the first—was The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time. I couldn’t have been more than 10 years old, arguably too young to fully appreciate the game for what it was. But it stuck with me for how tender and real it felt, from the memorable musical score to the detail it paid to even the most minor characters, and I’ve followed the franchise religiously in the years since. The Legend of Zelda games have offered plenty of lessons, from the obvious moral of the importance of kindness to the darker idea of the inevitability of death, but it’s only with the latest installment, Breath of the Wild, that I realized exactly what Zelda has given me.
In each game, the story is roughly the same: A hero named Link (played by you) must be awoken to help the Princess Zelda defeat a great evil. When I was younger, I always assumed these protagonists were adults—they would have to be, I figured, to take on that kind of responsibility. And yet Link and Zelda are always reincarnated as teenagers, if not children. And they’re given the burden of having to save the world before they’re necessarily ready for it, let alone capable of ruling a kingdom or living on their own.
Every installment sees them struggle with decisions and mature (in ways big and small) over the course of the game’s story—they’re stuck in a perpetual, precarious state of “growing up.” They navigate spaces that over time have become more difficult to traverse and more populated, just as the real world expands as one ages. And so, it’s dawned on me: With its young characters, its longevity, its accessibility, and the evolution of its gameplay, The Legend of Zelda is hands-down the best franchise about the joys and frustrations of leaving youth and facing the challenges of adulthood.
This year’s Breath of the Wild features Link and Zelda grappling with their respective roles as knight and princess, much in the way teenagers must take on new, or more demanding, obligations. It’s a daunting task, especially for Zelda, who bears more responsibility because of her royal blood, and constantly expresses doubts about both her assigned path and her competence. She has trouble using the powers that are her birthright and resents the fact that a knight has been assigned to protect her. Still, Zelda lets her guard down with Link, asking whether he believes people would choose the same future for themselves if they were born into different roles. These characters are meant to be saving the world, but the games still take the time to touch on these human concerns.
Breath of the Wild also marks the first time the series has treated the pains of growing up with the same weight as the characters’ larger mission. Earlier games had thrust Link and Zelda into new situations (for instance, 2002’s The Wind Waker sees Zelda essentially lose her memory and become a pirate, while Link must worry after his grandmother and little sister as he travels the vast ocean) rather than allowing them to seek those experiences on their own.
In the years since The Legend of Zelda debuted in 1986, the franchise has enabled increasingly complex gameplay. The earliest installments were relatively linear: The Legend of Zelda, The Adventure of Link (1987), A Link to the Past (1991), and Link’s Awakening (1993) were 2D adventures that sent you (as Link) off on a grid. It was all fairly methodical, and you completed certain steps in order to progress to the next. Ocarina of Time, released in 1998 and the franchise’s first foray into 3D, marked a significant departure from this on-the-rails approach. You could take side quests, helping other characters in their day-to-day lives or looking for items you didn’t necessarily need to finish the game. Still, with the main storyline, things had to be completed in a particular order—a helpful constraint on my own burgeoning freedom that allowed me to experiment without straying too far from my main objective.
The franchise’s move toward greater autonomy culminated in this year’s Breath of the Wild, the first Zelda game to offer a true “open-world” environment, allowing players to go anywhere and do whatever they like, whenever they like. (As The Atlantic’s David Sims has written, this open-world trend in gaming has had plenty of downsides, including lazier storytelling.) In Breath of the Wild, you can go straight to confronting the big bad, travel through the world, or tame horses; the series’ creator, Shigeru Miyamoto, spent his first time playing the game simply climbing trees.
There are still dungeons and bosses to defeat. But the choices, once confined to a single path, are now limitless—paralleling the somewhat dizzying experience of having many of the rules of childhood fall away. I think of how I went from being allowed to only play video games for half an hour at a time when I was younger, to eventually being trusted to manage my time on my own. In Zelda, this freedom is both exhilarating and intimidating: Some players will appreciate their newfound independence, while for others it might come with a sense of dread or aimlessness. I didn’t find such a realistic reflection of growth in any of the other games I grew up with. Final Fantasy presents a similar adventure, but its story feels less intimate since each installment comes with new characters; Mario boasts countless versions, including side-scrollers and racing titles and party games, but they’re all less unified.
The Zelda franchise passed on more than a decade’s worth of insight about getting older without my realizing it. In Ocarina of Time, which coincided with the start of my teen years, Link is thrown into adulthood by being put to sleep until he’s old enough to go to battle—his supposed readiness depends on his physical, not emotional, maturity. The world changes drastically while Link slumbers; more monsters and horrors roam the kingdom, but being physically older doesn’t mean Link is any better equipped to deal with them. With each new Zelda game, the tale players must navigate becomes grander and more entrenched in the cyclical mythos of the game (Link and Zelda are reincarnated over and over again), and the ultimately very small-scale story of growing up only becomes sharper and more poignant.
Notably, the first Zelda title was considered a forerunner of the role-playing games that are now an industry norm. The immersive process of identifying with video-game avatars that players now take for granted was in many ways baked into the franchise from the start, making its subtle lessons about empathy more effective. Majora’s Mask (2000) and Twilight Princess (2006) explored identity, with both games forcing Link to assume other bodies and forms and to be treated differently as such (e.g. as the anthropomorphic plant Deku Scrub in Majora’s Mask, and as a wolf in Twilight Princess). Meanwhile, Majora’s Mask delved into loss and grief as ancillary characters come to terms with their deaths in light of a looming natural disaster.
Link and Zelda are ultimately reflections of the players themselves, and each time we revisit them they’re less archetypes (the hero and the princess), and more characters who experience doubt as much as anyone in the real world. Because Breath of the Wild depends so heavily on players’ personal choices, when Link develops over the course of his adventure, so do you. There are countless chances to wander or to rush to the point, to fight or to avoid conflict. It’s not a parallel that can be replicated in any other medium because no other medium relies so completely on its audience’s immediate decisions—and in Zelda, a world in perpetual adolescent flux, that feels particularly apt.
The evolution of the Zelda franchise over the last 30 years is perhaps inimitable. Yes, plenty of games now feature vast environments (Mass Effect: Andromeda and No Man’s Sky), and other series have young protagonists (the Earthbound and Pokémon franchises), but it’s the combination of these qualities along with Zelda’s longevity and accessibility that make it an especially meaningful portrayal of the delights and anxieties of coming of age. While a few other franchises have been around as long (namely the Super Mario series and Final Fantasy), none has changed alongside its audience in quite the way Zelda has.
Zelda has been there for me at each stage of my life, echoing my own progress over the last decade and a half. That the games are still evolving, and that they still hit home, is a comfort. As a child, I’d watch my mother play Ocarina of Time when some parts got too intense for me; now I dive into Breath of the Wild, arguably much more overwhelming because of its sheer scale, on my own. I wouldn’t say that I’m done growing up—maybe I never will be—but then again, neither is Link.
Serena Williams’s Love Match
Buzz Bissinger | Vanity Fair
“Serena plays a sport that requires the mental focus of instantaneously letting go of losing points and moving on because there are a lot of excruciating ones no matter how great you are, continual regrouping and re-inventing: Dwell on them, you lose confidence; lose confidence and you lose. She is also superbly conditioned, given that a female tennis player may run about three miles in a match without the luxury of coming out of the game because you feel winded or lost too much money gambling with teammates the night before on the charter and would rather mope on the bench.”
Paddington Bear, Refugee
Rebecca Mead | The New Yorker
“Paddington’s story is, like Mr. Gruber’s, an immigrant story, conveyed through the beguiling mishaps that he endures in his journey of assimilation. How do faucets work? (You need to turn them off.) What is meant when an attendant at the theater asks if you would like a program? (You are supposed to pay for it.) This theme—of the immigrant’s arrival, and the natives’ initially wary but ultimately wholehearted embrace—was accentuated in the story’s excellent movie version, from 2014.”
How the Women of Summer 2017 Are Changing Hollywood
Darren Franich | Entertainment Weekly
“The important thing to remember, of course, is that this isn’t just some hiccup in female-centric big-screen entertainment. Taken all together, it feels like Hollywood has reconsidered what it means to produce feature film entertainment: who can star in a blockbuster, and how audiences will enjoy those stars. That’s the core message brewing in other upcoming high-profile projects.”
Mahershala Ali and GLOW: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
The Bachelorette Has Confused Racism With Entertainment
Gabby Bess | Broadly
“I became somewhat addicted to the Bachelor franchise because it’s a fascinating human experiment, not in love, but in social behavior more broadly. The show’s true premise is cruel—how do people react when ostensibly trying to make a human connection despite only getting to spend a total of, like, 24 hours with the object of their affection and countless more time with their rivals?—but usually it's benign.”
How Okja Produced the Best Korean American Character in Film History
Donnie Kwak | The Ringer
“Okja is the most memorable film I’ve seen in a long while. The Koreans, led by the unforgettable Ahn as Mija, are the most developed, intricate, and layered characters; the Westerners, for a change, are the exaggerated stereotypes. In the middle, most authentic of all, are a couple of hyphenated Koreans trying to make sense of everything.”
The Guilty Pleasure of Reading Hollywood Memoirs
Carolyn Kellog | The Los Angeles Times
“Memoir is another matter. Idiosyncratic and biased, obfuscatory and boastful, even unctuous and vain, the Hollywood memoir is not going to portray the past in a clear light. But like Sriracha on the table, it’s going to bring the heat and make the meal better. So much better.”
Monocle’s View From Nowhere
Kyle Chayka | The New Republic
“Monocle views the world as a single, utopian marketplace, linked by digital technology and first-class air travel, bestridden by compelling brands and their executives. Diversity is part of the vision—the magazine’s subjects are from all over the world, and its fashion models come in every skin color—but this diversity is presented, in a vaguely colonialist way, more as a cool look to buy into than a tangible social ideal. Cities and countries are written up as commodities and investment opportunities rather than real places with intractable problems that require more than a subsidy to resolve.”Lena Waithe Is What the Future of Hollywood Looks Like
Tomi Obaro | BuzzFeed 
“Waithe belongs to a new breed of Hollywood star: the multihyphenate. Writer, director, producer, actor—combining these titles is no longer the preserve of big-name celebrities for their vanity projects. Increasingly, they’re the way people traditionally locked out of the Hollywood system—queer women of color certainly among them—can make the television and film that they want to see. Like her peers Issa Rae and Donald Glover, Waithe recognizes the necessity of being able to do it all”
The Art World Needs a Jolt
Jerry Saltz | Vulture
“We all have to admit that the art world isn’t the definition of radical right now. There’s still too much inbred art about itself or otherwise so specialized that it takes reams of explaining in almost unreadable texts just to say why it’s relevant at all—and those things that might feel relevant, or radical, in another context often get so buffered and wrapped in the wealth of the system—fancy museums, big biennials—that they cease to offer anything truly new-seeming.”
The Academy Is Expanding, but Meaningful Diversity Is a Long Way Off
Aja Romano | Vox
“While the Academy is eager to tout its growth rates, its overall membership is still woefully homogeneous—and despite the record numbers, the Academy’s push toward greater diversity may actually be slowing. Specifically, last year, 46 and 41 percent of the Academy’s 683 newly issued invites went to women and people of color, respectively. This year, those percentages are significantly lower, with just 39 percent of the total invites going to women and 30 percent going to people of color.”
Don’t Miss
Baby Driver Is a Tribute to the Magic of the Earbud—Spencer Kornhaber dives into how Edgar Wright’s car-chase caper explores the wonders—and the dangers—of everyone having their own soundtrack.
Film
What The Big Sick Gets Right About Parenthood—Inkoo Kang unpacks the romantic comedy’s fleshing out of the poignant supporting roles that mothers and fathers can play.
Has Michael Bay Fallen Out of Love With the Military?—David Sims traces the Transformers director’s history of portraying soldiers in his films.
Will Ferrell Needs to Be Weird Again—David Sims believes films like The House, which cast the actor as a frustrated suburban everyman, are a waste of his unique comic talents.
The Little Hours Is an Alt-Comedy Gone Medieval—David Sims watches Jeff Baena’s new film, which juxtaposes foul-mouthed 21st-century humor with bawdy tales from the Middle Ages.
Television
The Bachelorette Reveals Itself for What It Is—Megan Garber argues that the show, with exploitative plotlines that treat racism as entertainment, is becoming harder and harder to defend.
How Will Silicon Valley Work Without T.J. Miller?—David Sims considers the future of the HBO show after the mercurial comedian departed under mysterious circumstances.
Sasha Velour and Drag’s Permanent Revolution—Spencer Kornhaber recaps the finale of RuPaul’s Drag Race.
The Norwegian Teen-Drama Series Loved Around the World—Boyd van Hoeij looks at the recently ended Skam, a wildly popular web show about Oslo high-schoolers that resonated for its realism.
The Most Pessimistic Episode of Veep Yet—Megan Garber explains how the show’s Season 6 finale highlighted the sometimes suffocating nature of American politics.
Art
Anicka Yi’s Strangely Persuasive World of Smells—Jane Yong Kim explores the artist’s Guggenheim show, which uses olfactory experiments to overturn assumptions about gender, race, and hygiene.
Music
Jay-Z’s Pitch for Generational Wealth—Spencer Kornhaber unpacks what the rapper’s new album 4:44 says about commerce and racial progress.
What Jeff Tweedy Has Been Trying to Say—Spencer Kornhaber listens closely to songwriting on the Wilco singer’s new acoustic album.
Books
How Rudyard Kipling Turned His Guilt Into Fiction—Joe Fassler chats with the novelist Scott Spencer about the English author’s short story “The Gardener,” as part of The Atlantic’s ongoing “By Heart Series.”
Media
Mika Brzezinski and Donald Trump’s Penchant for Blood Feuds—Megan Garber weighs in on the president’s controversial comments about the MSNBC host.
Aspen Ideas Festival
How Activism Can Advocate for Art—Sophie Gilbert discusses how Lil Buck and Jon Boogz use their performances to get people to reconsider what movement can do.
The Perils of Meritocracy—Megan Garber makes the case against one of the most loved ideas in American life.
The Power of Art That Makes You Pause—Sophie Gilbert attends a talk by the art historian Sarah Lewis and the architect Michael Murphy.
Hamilton’s Peaceful Protest—Sophie Gilbert reports on how the show’s November statement to Vice President-elect Mike Pence came about.
The Vital Role of Political Theater—Sophie Gilbert discusses how a recent production of Julius Caesar fits into a grand artistic tradition.
If you were not a Tidal subscriber or Sprint customer as of June 26, you’ll need a new phone plan to play Jay-Z’s new album, 4:44, this week. Simply signing up for Tidal, the streaming service co-owned by Jay-Z and a number of other superstar musicians, won’t do it—you need a Sprint contract as well. To any would-be listeners annoyed at this situation, Jay-Z’s spin on the matter may not help things. “This is a perfect storm of sharing music with fans,” he said in a press release. “Sprint allows for and promotes creative freedom.”
Finding virtue in what appears to be selling out has, of course, long been part of Jay-Z’s package. His list of corporate partnerships over the years is lengthy, and Sprint is the third separate phone company through which he’s released an album. Many music listeners are, understandably, squicked out when an artist so enthusiastically links their work to corporate interests. But 4:44, Jay-Z’s best album in a long time, tries to answer those concerns. It’s the thoughtful refinement of a career-long argument that Jay-Z has made: that for him, making huge bucks serves a greater good.
How Beyoncé and Kanye Made Marriage Cool Again
The hip-hop veteran No ID produced the album’s 10 tracks, using chopped-up soul samples and crisp rhythms for controlled, bittersweet soundscapes that foreground the lyrics. And what juicy lyrics they are. Lemonade’s implication that Jay-Z cheated on Beyoncé? Confirmed, and heartily apologized for, on the title track. The mysterious video of his sister-in-law attacking him in an elevator? In 4:44’s first track, he expresses remorse for having “egged Solange on.” His increasingly tense relationship with Kanye West? They’re officially on the outs, with Jay-Z suggesting that his onetime protégé and friend is “insane.” There’s even a revelation that Jay-Z’s mom is a lesbian: “Had to hide in the closet, so she medicate / Society shame and the pain was too much to take.”
This confessional thread is remarkable on its own, but it also serves as a headline-baiting advertisement that helps to spread 4:44’s deeper message about commerce and racial progress. Hip-hop’s materialist streak has always been tied to black struggle, and Jay-Z has long rapped about his hustling—whether as musician, businessman, or drug dealer—as a reaction to growing up poor and under threat. But for 4:44, he consolidates his thinking on the link between material success and racial inequality with some big-picture, long-term prescriptions. “Generational wealth, that’s the key,” he says on the closer, “Legacy,” which is essentially his will and testament in song form. “My parents ain’t have shit, so that ship started with me.”
The powerful and melancholy “The Story of O.J.” attacks this idea head-on. On it, Jay-Z replies to O.J. Simpson’s famous claim “I’m not black, I’m O.J.” with a curt, skeptical “okay” (his delivery is so perfectly nonchalant that it’s worth immediately rewinding). Simpson, the implication goes, wrongly thought his own success would exempt him from the reality of race in America. Jay-Z compares that shortsightedness to drug dealers risking their lives over turf that they don’t even own, and to rappers who sign away control of their careers. At times, the song risks clunkiness with financial-planning case studies about investing in appreciating assets (real estate and fine art, rather than cars), and it’s hard not to wince when he asks, “You ever wonder why Jewish people own all the property in America?” His point is that one marginalized group can learn from another, and the bottom line is all-American: “Financial freedom my only hope / Fuck livin' rich and dyin' broke.”
Jay-Z deftly connects his desire to achieve more than a quick buck with the album’s other themes, like fatherhood.  “A man that don’t take care his family can’t be rich,” he raps on “Family Feud,” and for “Legacy” he bequeaths his daughter Blue Ivy his stake in the record company Roc Nation. Thinking about his offspring’s long-term prosperity also deepens his discussion of infidelity. On “4:44,” he imagines a difficult conversation with his kids about what he put their mother through, and the pain isn’t only in his betrayal of Beyoncé, but in the gambling of his daughter’s future: “You did what with who? What good is a ménage à trois when you have a soulmate? You risked that for Blue?”
Jay-Z’s attention to inheritance fits aptly into a cultural moment of vibrant discussion about the long history of black families being actively prevented from accumulating capital. Not coincidentally, though, talking about this topic has helpful business implications for Jay-Z himself. On the album, he hectors fans who would pirate songs from Tidal and drink Perrier-Jouët rather than Armand de Brignac champagne, which he owns. “The reason you don’t have Jay-Z new album is because you don’t support black businesses,” the influential radio host Charlamagne tha God tweeted to people complaining about Tidal—a sign of how powerful Jay-Z’s intertwining of self-interest and racial solidarity has been.
Though only 36 minutes long and relatively understated musically, 4:44 is a blockbuster event whose full dissection will take a good while (especially because its rumored star-studded companion film is still unreleased). Already, though, a few waves of acclaim and backlash seem inevitable. Some listeners may bristle at Jay-Z talking more about changing black investment strategies rather than about political obstacles and racism (though the “Story of O.J.” video, which portrays lynching in cartoon form, might address those concerns). Others may take issue with Jay-Z trying to conquer capitalism as it exists rather than, say, making like Kendrick Lamar and questioning the system itself. Jay-Z, though, is no radical. He’s managed to thrive in spite of the odds, and he believes his listeners can as well, so long as they pay the phone company first.
One of the things that made the backlash to the Public Theater’s recent production of Julius Caesar so ironic, the director Diane Paulus argues, is that the concept of protest was already built into the show. In Oskar Eustis’s modern-dress production of the Shakespeare history play, which depicts Caesar as a Trump-like figure, actors spent the first hour of the play disguised as audience members before unexpectedly jumping up from their seats to form a mob midway through. “These people in the audience dressed just like audience members get out of their seats and start shouting, and rush the stage, and become part of the action of the play,” Paulus recounted. So later in the run, when actual right-wing protesters began doing the same thing, it only emphasized the points the play was trying to make about the dangers of mob mentality.
“That is theater working well,” Paulus said.
At a time when culture seems to be wrestling with an unprecedented political reality, what role should theater play? How can plays—which usually take several years to go from an idea to a full-fledged production—respond to a media landscape that shifts focus and changes direction every few minutes? These were some of the questions posed to Paulus and the playwrights Robert Schenkkan and Branden Jacobs-Jenkins at a panel at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic. The answer, Schenkkan suggested, is that theater will do what it’s always done.“Storytelling and empathy are the most effective ways to have a conversation about these very non-partisan issues in a way that moves the needle,” he said. “And that’s what theater’s been doing for 2,000 years.”
Schenkkan, whose drama All the Way won the 2014 Tony Award for Outstanding Play, is one of the first playwrights to respond directly to the Trump presidency. His new play, Building the Wall, is set in 2019, when an African American historian interviews an incarcerated former security officer about the atrocities he committed in prison camps established by President Trump. “I wrote the play, this first draft, in a week in October [in 2016], when there was a lot of incendiary rhetoric by the Republican candidate about race and immigration and security,” Schenkkan said. “But what was even more challenging was the way in which I felt otherwise responsible individuals, politicians and journalists, were trying to normalize abnormal rhetoric.” Building the Wall is a thought experiment about the potential consequences of violent words. In a virtually unheard-of move, Schenkkan licensed it “right away, and indiscriminately,” so theaters around the world could stage it, and consider its alternative future from the present moment.
Although Building the Wall is something of an anomaly in the speed with which it’s been staged, the panelists suggested that the rich history of political theater gives directors other ways to consider contemporary politics. When plays are set in the past, Schenkkan said, audiences might be more inclined to set aside their prejudices when considering a story. Paulus agreed. When she staged a revival of the musical Hair 40 years after it debuted, people told her they were moved in a way they hadn’t been when they first saw it. “What’s so powerful about touching on moments in our history in contemporary settings,” she said, “is you’re able to reflect on it in a way [that’s removed from] the heat of living it.”
That’s why productions like the Public’s Julius Caesar, which use centuries-old history plays to illuminate modern politics, can be so powerful. The controversy the play stoked, Jacobs-Jenkins argued, had little to do with what the play actually does, which is warn of the consequences of removing difficult leaders with violence. Instead, people were responding to the simple visual of a Trump-like figure being assassinated, without considering the context. “It was clear that no one had actually read Julius Caesar,” he said. “We live in a much more imagistic culture … and everyone was very interested in responding to an image.”
But what became so vital about that particular show, Paulus said, was that the actual protests around it became part of the theatrical event itself. “We tend to think theater is this elite cultural pastime,” she said, “but it really wasn’t in history. It was a religious, civic, political, social ritual.” Productions like this one take their place in a long line of plays that have critiqued political leaders, whether directly, as with Schenkkan’s play, or obliquely. “The more we can embrace that role for theater,” Paulus said, “the more we can contribute.”
The Little Hours begins by introducing viewers to three nuns, each tending to their daily chores at a convent in 14th-century Italy. As Alessandra (Alison Brie), Genevra (Kate Micucci), and Fernanda (Aubrey Plaza) work, a local villager walks by pushing a wagon. “Beautiful morning, sisters,” he says. “Hey! Don’t fucking talk to us!” Fernanda yells back. “Fucking creep! Get the fuck out of here!” she adds, as the townsperson flees. This is a subtle sort of humor, one the viewer might not pick up on instantly. See, the supposedly chaste nuns of the Middle Ages are, in fact, talking like foul-mouthed, grumpy teenagers from 2017.
If you like that gag, then get ready, because The Little Hours mostly coasts on others like it for 90 minutes. In theaters Friday, the film juxtaposes its cast of alt-comedy legends with a tale straight from The Decameron, Giovanni Boccaccio’s series of erotic, comedic, and tragic novellas published in 1353. In addition to Brie, Micucci, and Plaza, the writer-director Jeff Baena has assembled stars like Fred Armisen, John C. Reilly, Molly Shannon, Nick Offerman, Dave Franco, Jemima Kirke, and Paul Reiser for this jaunt through temptation and blasphemy that quickly gets grating, but then doubles back around and becomes oddly charming by the end of its heroines’ strange, emotional journey.
Will Parks and Recreation Be the Last Great NBC Comedy?
Baena, who co-wrote I Heart Huckabees with David O. Russell in 2004, is part of a new wave of small-scale comedy directors who particularly enjoy blurring the lines of genre. Baena’s directorial debut Life After Beth (also starring Plaza) was a zombie-comedy about a boy struggling to get over his girlfriend’s death after she reanimates as a flesh-eating corpse. Though it impressively committed to the grossness of Beth’s resurrection, the movie relied not on actual jokes but on its premise (a rom-com zombie flick, which was already better executed in Shaun of the Dead) to earn laughs. Baena’s follow-up, the dark bachelor-party film Joshy, was more straightforwardly dramatic, and better off for it.
The Little Hours exists more in the mold of Life After Beth, but it’s an experiment that works a lot better. The Decameron might be a dusty old masterpiece of Florentine prose, but it was also extremely bawdy for its time, with tales of misplaced lust, confused lovers, and inflamed passions, many of them revolving around religious settings. The Little Hours is specifically an adaptation of the first tale of the third day, about a gardener, Massetto (Franco), who escapes his drunken master (Offerman) and pretends to be mute to get a job at the local convent. Quickly enough, the bored nuns descend upon him, and many a love triangle ensues.
Each of the three leads is broadly confined to her usual comedic wheelhouse. As Fernanda, Plaza is cruel and sardonic, rebellious, and secretly at the heart of a witchy cult within the convent. Brie’s Alessandra is a rich kid: very type-A, slightly more rational, and torn over her lust for Massetto. The elfin Genevra (Micucci, easily the funniest part of the movie) is racked with guilt over her own repressed homosexuality and quickly spirals into intense mania. Since the film’s presentation is so heightened, with every actor using an American accent, The Little Hours works best when embracing its utter seriousness. Of the supporting cast, John C. Reilly stands out as a weary priest, with Armisen bringing his Saturday Night Live schoolmarm act to his performance as the local bishop.
The film is not quite Monty Python, but it does kick into an enjoyably high gear for its third act, as all of the sexual shenanigans and black magic build to some hilarious carnage. The movie never stopped feeling gimmicky for me, though I understand why The Little Hours wouldn’t work as a six-minute sketch. The success of the joke depends on the feature-length commitment—it’s almost impressive to see how Baena lays out and sticks to the weird rules of the film (the dialogue vs. the specificity of the period setting). For all the silliness, there’s something lovable about Fernanda, Alessandra, and Genevra by the end of their profane rampage, and that’s enough of a feat to make The Little Hours genuinely watchable.
American culture nurtures many myths about the moral value of hard work. The phrase “by the bootstraps,” still widely used to describe those Americans who have found success through a combination of dogged work and stubborn will, rose from a mis-remembering of The Surprising Adventures of Baron Munchausen: In it, the eponymous aristocrat pulls himself from a swamp—not by his bootstraps, but by his hair. And Horatio Alger’s stories, as well, while often remembered collectively as the prototypical tale of American rags to American riches, romanticized not just the social and economic power of hard work, but also the power of old-fashioned good luck. (Ragged Dick, in the Alger story named for him: “I’d like it if some rich man would adopt me, and give me plenty to eat and drink and wear, without my havin’ to look so sharp after it.”)
The myths live on, though, for the same reason myths often will: They ratify a deeply held value in American culture. They allow us denizens of the current moment to hold onto one of the most beloved ideas that has animated Americans’ conception of themselves—ourselves—as a culture, over the decades and centuries: that we live in a meritocracy. That our widely imitated and yet idiosyncratic take on democracy has been built, and continues to rest, on a system that ensures that talent and hard work will be rewarded. That the American dream is real, and enduring.
Current events, however—and Americans’ ability to share their experiences with each other, via new technological platforms—have helped to reveal the notion of meritocracy to be what it always was: yet another myth. And: a myth that is particularly pernicious, when it comes to Americans’ sense of what we owe to each other. During a discussion at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic, NPR’s Michele Norris talked with Darren Walker, the president of the Ford Foundation, and Jeff Raikes, the co-founder of the Raikes Foundation. The trio, in their discussion, emphasized the tensions between how we talk about the American dream and how people live it.
“As Americans, we want to believe that you can get on that mobility escalator and ride it as far as you want,” Walker said, “but that no one rides it faster than anyone else.” We want to believe that talent will triumph, and that hard work will be the tool of that success. Which is to say: We want to believe that opportunity is evenly distributed.
But, of course, that great escalator is far faster for some than it is for others. It is harder for some to get to in the first place than it is for others. And it’s been that way from the beginning: This country, as Walker put it, “was constructed on a racialized hierarchy.” It’s a hierarchy that remains today—one that is evident, in ways both obvious and insidious, across American culture, across the American education system, across the American housing system, across the American economy.
And yet our stories, and our myths, tend to belie that reality. The logic of meritocracy, as a concept—“a system in which the talented are chosen and moved ahead on the basis of their achievement,” per Merriam-Webster, but also, per Dictionary.com, “an elite group of people whose progress is based on ability and talent rather than on class privilege or wealth”—endorses a world in which economic success carries a moral valence, and in which, as a consequence, the lack of such success implies a kind of moral failing.
It’s a tension playing out, at the moment, with the negotiations taking place in Congress, about the future of the American healthcare system. Many of those debates, my colleague Vann Newkirk pointed out, have adopted the pernicious logic of the prosperity gospel—the idea that success, and wealth, and indeed health itself, are signs of God’s favor. But it’s a tension, too, that has long inflected conversations about social assistance programs—a tension that has, in general, long defined how Americans think about what they owe to each other, as people and as fellow citizens.
“Meritocracy” takes as its core assumption, essentially, an equality that does not exist in America. It is romantic rather than realistic. “To successful people,” Walker said, “to interrogate their success requires that they acknowledge the injustice that is baked into our systems. And that’s really, really hard to do, because we’re patriots. We believe in our country. We believe that there is something that makes it possible for people like me, and Jeff, and you”—he was talking to Norris—“to be where we are today.”
That something is, in the Algerian sense, the American dream. That something is “an elite group of people whose progress is based on ability and talent” as a myth and a cultural ideal. As concepts, they claim to speak to the best of who we are; in practice, however, they can serve as a justification of the worst. They can allow us to be complacent about the world rather than interrogate it. After all, as Norris summed things up: In America, “we are the land of the brave and the home of amnesia.”
In November last year, the morning after the presidential election, the cast of Hamilton faced a day where they had two shows to perform, in the wake of a result that left many of them horrified. “It was a soul-crushing day,” the show’s producer, Jeffrey Seller, said. Some of the production’s actors told him they felt unsafe in America. A wardrobe person was in floods of tears. The company held a meeting, and discussed how to move forward. “We had to get up and say, now our play is more important than ever before, and we need to tell this story that embodies our greatest values as a country, as a democracy,” he said.
Two weeks later, the theater received a call saying that Vice President-elect Mike Pence wanted tickets.
It was a moment that led to one of the most publicized peaceful protests in theatrical history, when the actor Brandon Victor Dixon, who plays Aaron Burr, read a message to Pence during the show’s curtain call asking the new administration to work “on behalf of all Americans.” While Pence denied that he was offended by the public statement, President-elect Donald Trump was furious, and vented at the production on Twitter. “The Theater must always be a safe and special place,” he wrote. “The cast of Hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man, Mike Pence. Apologize!”
Seven months later, Seller said he’s still proud of the way in which Hamilton registered its objections to the incoming administration, and he explained how the moment came about in a conversation with David Rubenstein at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic. His first response to getting a phone call saying that Pence wanted to see the show, he said, was, “What can we do? We cannot deny this man a ticket … [But ]what am I going to say to my actors? How are they going to go on and perform for this man? Because we know what he embodies.”
So Seller pulled out his phone and drafted a statement. Then he called the show’s creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda, who was in London filming Mary Poppins Returns, and  Seller read aloud the sentences he’d written. “Lin said, ‘Okay, let’s start editing it,’” and the pair worked together to come up with the statement that Dixon eventually made. Seller explained that he knew there was a risk of bringing unwanted negative attention to the show, but everyone involved felt it was necessary. “It wasn’t about a story, it was about the opportunity to say, ‘Look at us, we are here.’”
Dixon’s statement, which Pence paused on his way out of the theater to listen to, said,
You know, we have a guest in the audience this evening. And Vice President-elect Pence, I see you walking out, but I hope you will hear us just a few more moments. There’s nothing to boo here, ladies and gentlemen. There’s nothing to boo here. We’re all here sharing a story of love. We have a message for you, sir. We hope that you will hear us out.
Vice President-elect Pence, we welcome you, and we truly thank you for joining us here at Hamilton: An American Musical. We really do. We, sir, we are the diverse America who are alarmed and anxious that your new administration will not protect us, our planet, our children, our parents, or defend us and uphold our inalienable rights, sir. But we truly hope this show has inspired you to uphold our American values and work on behalf of all of us. All of us. Again, we truly thank you truly for seeing this show, this wonderful American story told by a diverse group of men and women of different colors, creeds, and orientations.
In the theater, that night it drew overwhelming applause. Other responses in the days after were more mixed. Beyond Trump’s calls for the cast and crew to apologize, the Fox News host Judge Jeanine Pirro called the show’s team members “hypocrites,” and accused them of reverse racism. The Los Angeles Times theater critic Charles McNulty wondered if the show had fallen into a trap by not trusting the musical to make its own case for pluralism and tolerance.
But as Seller explained, the act of making a statement had significant meaning for everyone involved in the show. “It was a form of active communication, maybe resistance,” he said. “And by the way, I want to tell you, I’m proud of it.”
A glance at Will Ferrell’s recent history at the box office does not suggest anything resembling a crisis. His last starring role, the 2015 Christmas comedy Daddy’s Home with Mark Wahlberg, was a huge hit that did well enough to spawn a sequel (coming later this year). Before that, he teamed with Kevin Hart to make Get Hard, a prison comedy that grossed more than twice its budget; Anchorman 2, which did even better than that; and The Campaign with Zach Galifianakis (which made a healthy $87 million domestically). Ferrell’s new film The House sticks to that strategy—put the actor alongside an established comedy star (Amy Poehler), give them a high-concept plot (a couple opens a casino in their home!), and wait for the easy cash.
Money aside, however, there’s a definite sense of laziness to Ferrell’s recent approach to his career—a sad reality considering the experimental lengths he used to go to, and the consistent quality of the films he made right after departing Saturday Night Live in 2002. Ferrell is arguably the most iconic comedy star of his generation, but he seems increasingly locked into lowest-common-denominator material as the genre struggles to retain its box-office cache. The House, like so many of his other recent efforts, feels anonymous—and should be just as quickly forgotten as the rest of them.
The Lego Movie: Further Evidence of Will Ferrell's Subversive Genius
Because for all the money movies like The Campaign, Get Hard, Daddy’s Home, and even Anchorman 2 make, they barely register a blip in the cultural zeitgeist. Ferrell’s best-known characters—the over-eager Buddy of Elf, the egotistical Ron Burgundy of the original Anchorman, the Bush-era parody of American exceptionalism that is Ricky Bobby in Talladega Nights—have been replaced with total vacuums. Too often, Ferrell is called on to just play “himself,” i.e. a slightly milquetoast suburban dad-type who gets sucked into some kind of dodgy enterprise and quickly overreacts.
Ferrell’s greatest collaborations were with the director Adam McKay (with whom he made Anchorman, Talladega Nights, Step Brothers, and the cop comedy The Other Guys), a veteran SNL writer who encourages improvisation on his sets. But McKay and Ferrell struggled to crack the Anchorman sequel together, trying to turn it into a ham-fisted treatise on the evil of cable news, and since then McKay has gone on to Oscar success as the director of the more serious The Big Short (his next project is about the vice presidency of Dick Cheney).
While Ferrell can pull off playing audience surrogates in character, such roles are a huge waste of his talent. His best work always involves building a character from the ground up, and then constructing the film around it. The actor’s film career exploded after the surprise success of Old School (2003), in which he played the manic “Frank the Tank,” a new father in the middle of an extended nervous breakdown, alongside the more straight-laced Luke Wilson and Vince Vaughn. It was the kind of role Ferrell would go on to excel at: carefully developed sketch characters that contain heightened elements, but that nonetheless feel like real humans worthy of an entire movie.
At the same time, after Old School, Hollywood tried slotting Ferrell into more traditional leading-man roles. Woody Allen picked him as one of the many actors to play an Allen stand-in (like Jason Biggs, Kenneth Branagh, Owen Wilson, and many others) in Melinda and Melinda, one of the director’s most forgettable efforts. Ferrell played the bewildered Darrin in Nora Ephron’s misguided reboot of Bewitched, where his performance mostly consisted of confused yelling. He was a bizarre choice to play the depressed lead of Stranger Than Fiction, a flop meta-commentary on the strictures of storytelling, and he seemed completely adrift in the big-budget family adventure Land of the Lost, a CGI-laden claptrap that doesn’t recognize that Ferrell is the movie’s best special effect.
Ferrell’s more antic, sketch-based brand of comedy dominated the genre in the mid-2000s. The rise of Judd Apatow, who favors slow, lo-fi storytelling in the mold of James L. Brooks, has introduced a new norm that doesn’t suit Ferrell as well. A comedy like The House, written by the team behind the Neighbors movies, is aiming for something in the middle. Ferrell and Poehler play well-meaning parents trying to earn money for their kid’s college fund by running an illegal casino in their basement; things obviously escalate (from a “criminal element” point of view), but it unfortunately never bends into surrealism.
Ferrell’s best efforts in recent years have been the odd little experiments he does on the sidelines. Casa de Mi Padre, the Spanish-language comedy he made in 2012 for $6 million, is impressive mostly for how seriously it commits to its premise. The same goes for the Lifetime movie, A Deadly Adoption, which he made with Kristen Wiig in 2015, and which succeeded for its total lack of irony. But I’d love to see Ferrell once again make a broad, commercial movie with the aggressive strangeness present in masterworks like Step Brothers, where so much of the humor comes from all the work that went into crafting an internal logic to the film’s warped world. Will Ferrell is not an everyman, and Hollywood will be better off once it finally realizes that.
In battle, blood is weakness. Blood is loss. Blood is a visual symbol that, while one may have fought valiantly, one was also—at least for a moment—bested by another. In battle, the one who bleeds is the Loser (Sad!); the one who does not is the Winner.
Seeing Red: The Rise of Mensesplaining
Donald Trump, it’s often said, sees the world—and human life in general—as a roiling battlefield, and the people within it, consequently, as a collection of Victors and Vanquished who can be easily sorted as such. So it was both shocking and deeply unsurprising—a situation that is becoming less and less paradoxical as this unorthodox presidency goes on—to read the tweets that President Trump sent out on Thursday morning: about Joe Scarborough, a little, but mostly about his Morning Joe co-host, Mika Brzezinski. They were tweets mocking weakness. They were tweets mocking vanity. They were tweets about blood.
I heard poorly rated @Morning_Joe speaks badly of me (don't watch anymore). Then how come low I.Q. Crazy Mika, along with Psycho Joe, came..
...to Mar-a-Lago 3 nights in a row around New Year's Eve, and insisted on joining me. She was bleeding badly from a face-lift. I said no!
The tweets, on the one hand, were simply another volley in the administration’s ever-ramping battle against the American press—tweets in line with the accusation the deputy White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders made, earlier this week, about the media somehow being, as an institution, “fake news.” They featured typical Trumpian insults that were in line, despite their pettiness, with what increasingly seems to be the grander rhetorical project of this presidency, which is to delegitimize the mediating role of the media, and, consequently, to destabilize the notion of communal truth.
So, fine. Shocking, unsurprising, etc. But then there was the blood thing. The thing that aimed to delegitimize Brzezinski not merely according to her job performance—not even, as is Trump’s wont, according to her appearance—but according to her ability to bleed. To bleed, his implication went, in the name of vanity. Scarborough, here, was merely “Psycho”; Brzezinski, however, was “low I.Q.” [sic] and also “Crazy” and, also, “bleeding”—“badly,” no less—from her “face-lift.”
The accusation, first of all, seems to be another case of “fake news”: This, as CNN’s Brian Stelter noted, was Brzezinski on the evening in question:
For the record, this is a picture of @MorningMika at Mar-a-Lago at the time Trump is claiming she was "bleeding badly." pic.twitter.com/NJgioOD3Va
But the insult also calls to mind, of course, the president’s dismissal, in 2015, of Brzezinski’s fellow woman-on-television, Megyn Kelly, as having “blood coming out of her wherever.” And, in that, the accusation calls to mind the long cultural history of delegitimizing women as people because of their biological associations with blood. Blood, again, as weakness. Blood as dirtiness. “Bloody” as an insult, largely because it suggests unruly femininity. Here was Donald Trump, basically, in the blithe-yet-knowing manner that is so common in his rhetoric, tapping into all that history with an impressive economy of words. Here was the White House, meeting the Red Tent.
What’s especially striking about the American president’s blood-feuding, here, is that American pop culture has, in recent years, made explicit efforts to remove the regressive associations between women and blood. Artists and creators, women and men, have gone out of their way to normalize that most obvious connection between blood and femininity: the period. Broad City devoted an especially brilliant episode to Ilana’s search, on an international plane flight, for a tampon. The Daily Show’s Michelle Wolf, for the evening filling the role of  “senior period correspondent,” offered viewers a long, explanatory segment about menses. Key & Peele aired a “seminar” that attempted, to hilarious effect, to explain periods to clueless dudes. The “Menzies” episode of New Girl found Jess’s male roommates suffering sympathy periods and putting, yes, the “men” in “menstruation.” The Handmaid’s Tale has reworked a story that is fundamentally about the dark consequences of understanding women primarily according to their ability to bleed.
But that’s American pop culture. The American president seems to prefer a different approach. The American president, it seems, looks at a woman and sees, first and foremost, a body. One that is susceptible to the weakness that any body will be, in the end. But one that also, in Donald Trump’s grand battlefield, is a little bit weaker, a little bit less, than the others. Earlier this week, as Trump conducted a phone call with the new Irish prime minister, he interrupted the conversation with his fellow head of state to compliment a reporter’s “nice smile.” The reporter, it will come as a shock and as no surprise at all, was a woman.
Louis Armstrong is rightly lauded as one of the most influential jazz artists of all time, but less frequently appreciated is the impact he had on ending segregation in the United States. In 1931, when Charles Black Jr. was a 16-year-old freshman at the University of Texas, he went to see Armstrong play at the Driskill Hotel in Austin, hoping, in his own words, that there would be “lots of girls there.” Instead, he was struck by the music. “He was the first genius I had ever seen,” Black wrote in 1986. “It had simply never entered my mind, for confirming or denying in conjecture, that I would see this for the first time in a black man … And if this was true, what happened to the rest of it?”
Black later became a constitutional lawyer, and in 1954 he wrote the legal briefs for Linda Brown, the 10-year-old plaintiff in Brown v. Board of Education. That experiennce of being awed by an artist’s genius ended up contributing to a landmark case declaring racial segregation in public schools to be unconstitutional. The Harvard art history and African American studies professor Sarah Lewis cites this moment as an example of how culture enables people to see beyond their own blindspots. Art that gets us to pause, she argues, can lead us to a new vision of the world.
Last year, Lewis guest-edited an edition of Aperture magazine titled “Vision and Justice,” which explored the intersection of photography and black America, and how the medium has contributed to social progress. She discussed the power of images and the political role of artists with the architect Michael Murphy on Wednesday at the Aspen Ideas Festival, co-hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic. Acknowledging the role that culture plays in justice, Lewis said, is something people tend to do only in times of crisis. But even in the current moment, she argued, when more visuals are produced every two minutes than were created during the entire 19th century, images still wield great power when they force people to slow down.
One example Lewis cited wasn’t an artwork at all, but a plaque unveiled at Harvard last year to commemorate slaves who worked at the university in the 17th century. She also referred to an instantly iconic photograph of President Barack Obama bending down to let a small boy touch his head. And she quoted President John Kennedy’s 1963 speech at Amherst College, in which Kennedy considered the power of artists in society, stating: “We must never forget that art is not a form of propaganda; it is a form of truth.”
While that may be so, Murphy said, it doesn’t mean art can’t be weaponized. The co-founder and CEO of MASS Design Group, a non-profit firm advocating for “architecture that promotes justice and human dignity,” reiterated the idea that forcing people to pause can enable them to restructure their thinking. Architecture is conceptually slow, he argued, since most buildings take at least five years to move from design to completion. He referred to MASS’s proposal for a Holocaust memorial in London, which would create a pile of six million individual stones in the middle of the city, each one inscribed with the name of a victim. Visitors would be encouraged to take the stones home. The end result, Murphy said, would be that “six million people … agree to participate, engage, take a stone, and embrace a more just and tolerant society.”
“There are images that are impossible to forget, searing themselves into our collective consciousness,” my colleague Yoni Appelbaum wrote last year, after an extraordinary photo of a peaceful protester facing down two armed policemen went viral. “One man staring down a column of tanks in Tiananmen Square. A high school student attacked by police dogs in Birmingham, Alabama.” That the history of activism is defined by images is no accident. As Lewis said, these are the visuals that prompt us to pause, and show us “not only the things we want to celebrate, but the things we need to remember.”
It’s rude to wear headphones when interacting with other people, and it’s ruder to leave your music on when doing so. So say the etiquette books, and so would say common sense for most people—especially those over a certain age. Yet anyone who’s recently shared a car with a high schooler, or stood in a checkout line in a college town, might report that this particular norm is eroding. Last year, a Premiere League soccer coach mandated weekly “communication sessions” for his players because they were plugged into their listening devices when they should have been bantering between matches. Cue the op-eds about dangling white wires as a sign of civilizational crisis.
Baby Driver, Edgar Wright’s deliriously clever car-chase yarn in theaters now, is firmly on the side of the rude. Ansel Elgort’s character Baby spends most of the film with earbuds in, whether he’s walking down the street (acceptable), driving (illegal in Georgia, the film’s setting), or participating in a team meeting with his criminal colleagues (someone call Miss Manners). The laconic Baby, we come to understand, has a de facto superpower born of childhood accident: Songs can make him more attuned to the outside world. With, say, Dave Brubeck in his ears, he catches every word of conversation. And with, say, The Damned blaring, this getaway driver doesn’t miss a single convenient gap in traffic.
His music taste—which tends, Tarantino-like, toward vampy, brash classic rock and R&B—fuels the movie’s kinetic thrills, with every scene choreographed to crash and vroom on-beat. Yet his code name, as well as a childhood flashback showing him unwrapping a classic iPod on Christmas morning, suggests Baby can also be taken as a generational symbol. One way to think about Baby Driver is as a riff on the pros and cons of listening with the privacy of earbuds and the power to call up most any song at most any time.
A plot-extraneous scene early on hints at this theme. Walking down an Atlanta street to grab coffee, Baby saunters and skips to Bob & Earl’s 1963 soul song “Harlem Shuffle” as street signs and graffiti, trippily, seem to reflect the lyrics. He’s having a killer time doing a mundane task—a modern miracle available to all since the Walkman’s invention. Other folks in the scene are also puttering to their own scores, which we don’t get to hear. Baby nods at a girl in big chunky headphones, as if to say, “Music makes life better, why ever shut it off?”
But Baby is also, in this scene, somewhat oblivious. His music tunes out annoyances of urban life—an unpleasant street preacher, the alarms of emergency vehicles, inane conversations on the sidewalk. It also drowns out street musicians, whose contributions, any city-dweller will report, can range from irritating to life-affirming. And when Baby nearly bumps into passersby as he executes his self-satisfying Fred Astaire routine, they don’t look charmed. Maybe they’re tsk-tsking about the dangers of distracted walking, or maybe they see this kid as a perfectly modern narcissist.
The tension between the notion of personal playlists as magical and as malevolent is made explicit by Baby’s comrades in robbery, Buddy (Jon Hamm) and Bats (Jamie Foxx). Buddy commiserates with Baby both about the “escape” of driving to a great song and about the excellence of Brian May’s guitar solo in Queen’s “Brighton Rock.” Bats, though, is intensely suspicious of Baby’s closed mouth and full ears. Having a private soundtrack doesn’t foster trust, and to Bats, it also suggests a dangerous lack of focus. He’s worked before with drivers who took getaway music too seriously, switching the radio to avoid “hex songs”—ones they believe to be bad omens—and ending up dead anyway.
It’s only a mild spoiler to say that both Buddy and Bats turn out to be terrible human beings who cause problems for Baby. Buddy’s personal version of “escape” isn’t so much in music as it is in drugs, violence, and his frighteningly intense romance with another robber, Darling (Eiza González). He’s a reminder of how orienting one’s life around hits of pure feeling, whether from a song or bump of cocaine, can warp someone. Bats meanwhile has too raw and unmediated a relationship to reality: He’s on edge, all the time, and as a consequence acts impulsively, amorally, with brutal force.
But for Baby, music isn’t quite as insular a pleasure as those two think it is. His relationship with the goodly diner waitress Debora (Lily James) centers around music: They chat about lyrics that mention their respective names, and in one of the most intoxicating flirtation scenes in recent memory, they share earbuds while hanging out at the laundromat. Baby also has a warm rapport with his foster dad Joseph (CJ Jones), who is deaf but sometimes feels the vibration of whatever song Baby is playing. Joseph must understand that Baby is such a soundhound because he is trying to connect with his mother, a singer who died in the car accident that gave him tinnitus. All of this is a sign that Wright gets how music can be as much a social bond as it is an escape.
The music just gets more bracing as Baby Driver’s second half escalates into an orgy of burning rubber, gratuitous death, and gunfire. This action excess sometimes nears numbing for the viewer, but Wright knows how to grab attention back by suddenly subverting Baby’s playlist. At one point during a chase, Baby is rendered iPodless and suddenly plunged back into reality’s soundtrack: police sirens and gunfire. It’s a scary moment, and during that sequence, he’s forced to break with his moral code; only when he’s got the right song playing again does he begin to make amends. Later, in the climactic face-off, a villain tries to make an even more horrifying intervention between Baby and his music. It’s possible our hero’s relationship with sound will never be quite the same again.
The way Baby’s listening habits get messed with as the movie advances might be a comment on the way that life can wrest someone away from their singular passions—after all, there’s no music fan like a young music fan. (Not coincidentally it’s always the next generation that, ultimately, flouts and rewrites the social rules around any new technology.) Does growing up necessarily mean leaving one’s own cocoon of sound to, as one character cheekily puts it, “face the music”? Maybe. But then again, Edgar Wright is 43 years old, and he’s just made one of the more perceptive, multi-faceted, and bighearted tributes to music-listening in movie history.
Teens around the world are in mourning on Tumblr, Twitter, and Facebook because their favorite TV show just ended after four remarkable seasons. But it’s a program few in the U.S. have likely seen: a low-budget web series from Norway called Skam, or “shame.” The series from the Norwegian state broadcaster NRK follows a group of friends attending the (real and very respectable) Hartvig Nissen School in the capital city of Oslo. Each season corresponds to one school semester of about 12 weeks and focuses on a different character in the group, zooming in on their particular struggles with peer pressure, sexual abuse, mental illness, homosexuality, and religion.
How Your Name Became Japan’s Biggest Movie in Years
Skam’s appeal comes from its unusual commitment to realism—in terms of its subject matter, characters (who are mostly played by non-professional actors), and method of release. Though episodes eventually get packaged and shown on regular TV, Skam is a native web series. Viewers would get several short, documentary-like scenes that popped up unannounced on the show’s website in real time—whenever the events depicted in the series were supposedly happening. The brief clips made the series easily shareable on social media and watchable on smartphones, paving the way for Skam’s success both at home and abroad.
Though Norway has just five million people, Season 2 and 3 respectively saw an average of one million and 800,000 viewers per episode on TV. A rabid international following developed last year: Fan-run (and technically illegal) YouTube and Twitter accounts started uploading the scenes with homemade translations and subtitles, with some clips reaching views in the seven digits as word-of-mouth spread about Skam’s resonant warts-and-all portrayal of contemporary teenage life. The series’ breakout success led the producer Simon Fuller, of American Idol fame, to buy the remake rights for the U.S. and Canada, with production set to begin this summer. As devoted fans mark the end of the show’s original run, many are wondering whether an English-language version of Skam will be able to capture the raw realities and unique production factors that made the original such a hit.
* * *
The brain behind Skam is the showrunner Julie Andem, who wrote and directed all 47 episodes. Originally conceived as a web experiment aimed at young women of around 16, the show was envisioned as a modestly scaled series (Seasons 2 and 3 combined cost less than $1.2 million to make) about Norwegian teens, with the storylines inspired by Andem’s wide-ranging interviews with potential viewers. Skam borrows and improves techniques that go back to the British teen series Skins and Girls, an earlier NRK series Andem made aimed at 12-year-olds.  Part of the show’s authenticity comes from its actors: They’re roughly the same age as their characters, have minimal performing experience, and wear little or no makeup to cover their youthful blemishes. The series was also shot somewhat on the fly, only on real locations and not in studio interiors, with each episode filmed just a couple of weeks before it aired.
Like Skins, which got a short-lived U.S. remake from MTV, Skam looks at a group of teenage friends from multiple perspectives, with each lead receiving a season-long focus while the stories of the others continue to develop in the background. Another factor that makes Skam stand out: During its four seasons, not a single straight, white male was ever the main protagonist. Seasons 1 and 2 look at girls working through problems with their boyfriends and friends, while Season 3 centers on a boy named Isak who is struggling with his sexuality. The final season follows Sana, a tough Muslim girl (and a fan favorite) dealing with insecurities about being a religious young woman from an immigrant background in a largely atheist country.
It was easy to get invested in these characters because of the immersive way their stories unfolded. Each week’s “episode” was divided into four to six clips of about five minutes each that would be uploaded to Skam’s website, without warning, at the exact time the events shown were happening over the course of the semester. So if a sleepless, anxious Isak took an “Are You Gay?” test online at 3 a.m. on a Monday, that’s when the scene became available. Each week’s clips were broadcast together as a full episode on Friday on one of NRK’s regular TV channels.
The Internet has made it possible to binge-watch an entire season in a single sitting. But as Skam shows, it also allows for the exact opposite: for a show to drip-feed a season over the course of a dozen weeks, in a super-incremental fashion. This approach created a sense of anticipation and surprise, as it was never clear when new material might be coming. Whenever the latest clip would drop, fans could immediately watch it on their smartphones. Between new videos, Skam’s website uploaded text conversations and chats between the characters, as well as social-media updates, helping to deepen their arcs and relationships.
Especially since Season 2, which aired in the spring of 2016, Skam became a phenomenon in Norway and is now the most-watched web series in the country’s history. International success arrived a season later, when fan-made compilations and translations proliferated online, and Tumblr was flooded with GIFs of the cute, baseball-cap-wearing Isak and the object of his affection, the James Dean-esque Even (the couple is known as “Evak”). Indeed, there’s a poetic irony in the fact that the series became a heavily pirated global hit thanks to the very things it was so specifically designed for: the internet and the internet generation.
* * *
But all the technical innovation in the world would be useless if the stories Andem told didn’t ring true with its viewers, who now encompass a much broader spectrum of ages and nationalities than the show’s original target audience. It’s especially perceptive about the way teenagers use social media and their mobile devices, and deal with the fallout of such hyperconnectedness in the form of cyber-bullying and unwanted nude pictures.
Skam is also attuned to the necessity of openness and honesty between friends offline (parents are rarely seen or kept off-screen altogether). One of the most moving moments in the series occurs in Season 4, when the protagonist Sana has a heart-to-heart with her friend Isak. Sana explains to Isak how years of being stared at (or worse) for wearing a hijab has turned her into a cold person who is convinced that most Norwegians are making racist assumptions about her based only on her appearance.
Isak counters that all the dumb questions she gets are important, because they can start a dialogue, rather than letting people just make up their own, uninformed minds. “I didn’t grow up as a Muslim girl, but I’ve been where you are,” the teen says, suggesting the value of empathy both in life and in their friendship. “Who would’ve thought, the gay guy and the Muslim girl, best buds,” Isak muses, to which Sana replies with one of her classic, stone-faced comebacks: “We’re not best buds.” Though, even if they’re not best friends, they are clearly still close, finding solace in shared experiences.
It’s through such seemingly casual conversations and unexpected alliances that Andem lays out the complex and thorny issues average teenagers in Norway must navigate. Her slang-filled writing unpacks the characters’ problems from different sides without sounding preachy. In Skam, humor is frequently used as a safety valve amid all the romance, partying, and drama, which involves a lot of kissing and candid talk about sex.
The extent to which all this will be part of the English-language version of Skam will depend on where the series will air, and details are minimal as of now. (NRK will be involved in the project, which will reportedly be released in the same manner as the original.) MTV’s Skins, which also took a frank approach to sex and violence, was canceled in 2011 after just one season of poor ratings and reviews. Though Skam could end up on a big network, a platform like Netflix could make sense for the remake. Of course, the streaming service is digital-first and known for giving TV creators greater artistic freedom. But it also has a nose for cult hits and an interest in reaching younger viewers, garnering controversy this year with its teen-drama series 13 Reasons Why.
Will U.S. teenagers used to seeing high-school life depicted as glossy (like in Riverdale) embrace the unvarnished honesty of a series like Skam? The original’s rough-hewn quality is also unlike any series that’s on American TV right now. The acclaimed Friday Night Lights, which ended in 2011, comes closest stylistically, with its documentary-like visuals and emphasis on shooting on location. Still, that show didn’t fit as cleanly into the teen-drama mold as other classics of the genre, like My So-Called Life, Freaks and Geeks, Degrassi, and Buffy the Vampire Slayer; those all varied dramatically in approach and scope but bear little resemblance to Skam.
Fortunately, the original Skam offers a clear blueprint for success: NRK’s clever grasp of technology and social media, a commitment to authenticity, a showrunner with a keen interest in how teens feel about their lives, and an understanding of how diverse and complex that demographic can be. Though it’s beloved abroad, Skam was special partly because it felt so uniquely Norwegian; a remake would ideally be preceded by the kind of in-depth research Andem carried out, helping it strike a balance between mundane realism and universal relatability. Until then—judging by the fan posts on social media that show no signs of abating—Skam’s young viewers will, fittingly, have a vibrant online culture to keep them busy.
When art and activism come together, they usually do so in a way that moves in one direction: Artists use their work to highlight, interrogate, and illuminate issues in the world. But what if it were the other way around? What if artists can also use their activism to engage people in and educate them about art?
This is one of the goals of Movement Art Is, an organization co-founded by the dancer Lil Buck and the choreographer and director Jon Boogz. MAI’s mission is to use “movement artistry to inspire change in the world.” Just as significant, though, is its goal of elevating movement art as a medium. Through live performances and films, MAI advocates for social change while expressing how vital dance can be. Works like “Color of Reality,” a 2016 collaboration with the visual artist Alexa Meade, use performance to speak about issues of racism and violence, but they also change the way many viewers might think about movement itself.
Boogz described the overall impact of MAI’s work as a “double whammy,” at a performance and panel at the Aspen Ideas Festival, which is co-hosted by the Aspen Institute and The Atlantic. The subjects it confronts—prejudice, injustice, mass incarceration, immigration—are “issues that are really close to us, really dear to our heart,” he said. But at the same time, he and Buck are striving to introduce more people to the dance disciplines they grew up with, like jookin. “Using these films, we’re touching on issues we wanna talk about, but secretly we’re introducing you to the culture at the same time. Now you’re learning about our craft, our artistry.”
Jookin, a kind of street dance that originated in Memphis more than 30 years ago, illustrates the synergy of movement and music, Buck said, pointing to how its evolution is proof of dance’s ability to reach people from all backgrounds. The more than 260,000 people who’ve watched “Color of Reality” on YouTube haven’t just witnessed a searing statement about injustice, they’ve also been exposed to a kind of art form that many of them might never have encountered.

Contained within the film is a plea for people to reconsider movement art and dance—not just what they can look like, but what they can achieve. When Buck was young, he said, he wanted to be a backup dancer, because that was his only understanding of what dancers did. “It goes to show how big my dreams could have actually been.”
This post reveals minor plot points for The Bachelorette Season 13 Episode 6.
A few years ago, in response to a combination of scientific studies, legal cases, and human tragedies, commentators began to question the morality of watching American football. We’d always known the sport was an especially dangerous one to play—that, indeed, is part of its brute appeal—but now there was undeniable evidence of that brutality, rendered in statistic and awful anecdote. To watch the violence play out, it became increasingly clear, was to be in some way complicit in it—to cast a silent vote, not with one’s pocketbook but with one’s attention, in favor of all that violence continuing.
The Bachelorette, of course, depicts a sport only in the loosest sense; the show is very rarely violent in the literal way of the term. And yet it has recently adopted the same rough outlines that football acquired a few years before: The show, always questionable, has become in its latest season more troubling than it has even been before. Recent episodes of the long-running ABC show have laid bare just how craven and exploitative its producers have become. Problems that have long been simmering in its world have come to a boil. Watching it has become harder and harder to enjoy—and, like that other blood sport, harder and harder to defend.
ABC Has Finally Cast a Black Bachelorette
For many, the final straw in all this has been the previous several episodes of The Bachelorette, a collection of hours-long affairs that the show had billed for their vaguely gladiatorial qualities. “Next week,” Chris Harrison, the show’s otherwise affable host, intoned as a teaser, “the drama explodes on a shocking two-night Bachelorette. You won’t believe what happens when Lee and Kenny go head-to-head in an epic two-on-one battle. … It’s double the drama next Monday and Tuesday night on an unbelievable Bachelorette event.”
What Harrison didn’t say, but what the show has gone out of its way to exploit, was the fact that the “battle” between the two men had racial overtones. Lee, who is white, invented stories about Kenny, who is black, all of them amounting to an upshot with troubling historical precedent: Kenny, in Lee’s framing, was “aggressive.” Lee had lobbed similar accusations against Eric, another of the show’s black contestants. As The New Yorker’s Doreen St. Félix noted, Lee “repeats the word ‘aggressive’ as if it were a charm.”
And yet Lee, as the drama escalated, did what bullies often will do: He played the victim. He accused Kenny and others of “playing the race card.” And The Bachelorette—double the drama—took delight in exacerbating the conflict, placing the two men next to each other at Rose Ceremonies and, during this week’s double-header episode, pitting them against each other on a two-on-one date with Rachel, this season’s Bachelorette, with the stipulation that she must, over the course of that date, send one of the men home. The Bachelorette delighted in all this. It exploited the tension. It treated racism, as Broadly’s Gabby Bess put it, as entertainment.
And it may have knowingly set the conditions for all that exploitation to occur. It was revealed several weeks ago that Lee, prior to his casting on the show, had sent out a series of racist tweets—about Black Lives Matter, about the NAACP—that have since been scrubbed from his (now private) account. The show professes not to have known about those tweets; it also does, however, extensive background checks on its contestants, which would make its ignorance about them a severe oversight. And, regardless, the show’s producers would have had some idea about the kind of person they were inviting to compete to become Rachel’s husband: Lee’s self-written Twitter bio describes him as “pleasantly offensive.”
So, again, football. The Bachelor franchise, too, was problematic in the same hazy way that football was—the kind of show many have watched with caveats and shrugging embarrassment. (“Specifically, we hate that we love it,” one fan, a writer, summed it up, in her effort to explain “Why Smart Women Watch (and Love) The Bachelor”). The show’s penchant for manufactured drama, its blithe heteronormativity, its myopic focus on marriage as a solution to life’s problems, its willingness to give contestants—women, in particular—the “crazy edit” … all of that has been troubling from the outset. All of it has led to the “but” in the sheepish “but I love it” that has characterized so many viewers’ relationship with the show.
The worst of it, however, has been the show’s relationship with race. It took more than 20 seasons of The Bachelor and The Bachelorette for the series to cast a person of color as its star—a fact that, given the moralities baked into this show about romance and community and family values, doubled as a statement on who, in the show’s estimation, deserves to be an icon of such things. The franchise has long framed love as something available only to the beautiful and the white, thus presenting, season after season, what NPR’s Linda Holmes explained as an unwitting lesson in how systematic racism gets systematized in the first place.
And yet the show’s creators took great delight in announcing its “historic” casting of a black Bachelorette, the season 21 finalist Rachel Lindsay, all while eliding the more salient fact of the matter, which was that it had taken the show a shameful 21 seasons to cast any person of color in a starring role. They suggested that Rachel’s season, with a star of color and a more diverse cast of suitors than the show has ever offered before, might mark a new chapter in the franchise. They suggested that fans’ caveat-marked appreciation of the show might not, in the future, need to be quite so qualified.
And then the season aired. There were problems from the beginning. One suitor, Dean, introduced himself to Rachel by declaring, “I’m ready to go black and I’m never going to go back.” Another, Peter, did a freestyle rap in which he referred to Rachel as “a girl from the hood.” Rachel laughed politely at it all. But then came, in recent episodes, the ginned-up drama between Kenny and Lee. Then came the racism that was played for ratings—then came something deeply unfunny played for lols.
It’s too much, at this point. It’s too much for Rachel—she had a breakdown during last week’s episode, discussing the pressures of being the first woman of color to star on the show—and it’s too much for viewers. The caveats are too heavy. The defenses are too weak. During this week’s two-night special, the double-header that Chris Harrison teased as if it were a sporting event, both Kenny and Lee ended up eliminated—Lee for his untrustworthiness, Kenny for the fact that his relationship with Rachel hadn’t “progressed” as speedily as those of his competitors. Tuesday night’s episode concluded with the dramas that typically define the show: about romance, about “connection,” about finding The One. There was no more mention of Kenny and Lee; the racial-tension plotline had, apparently, served its purpose. It had been exploited, then forgotten. By the producers, at any rate—but not, necessarily, by viewers.
Okja begins with a splendiferous introduction to its title character. Who is Okja? The ecstatic businesswoman Lucy Mirando (Tilda Swinton) is thrilled to tell us, via multimedia presentation, by revealing to the press and her investors a new kind of “super-pig” her global corporation has discovered. A giant, lumbering beast resembling a hippo (though with a more baleful face), this creature is the future of cuisine, Lucy explains, and Okja is a prized calf sent to a farm in South Korea as part of a worldwide competition to find the best environment for her species. There she’ll roam around the mountains for 10 years, munch on the grass, and becoming a loving companion to young Mija (Ahn Seo-hyun), the farmer’s granddaughter.
The first act of Bong Joon-ho’s wonderful film Okja, available Wednesday on Netflix (and screening in theaters in limited release), is delightfully bucolic. It follows Mija and her gargantuan pal as they shamble around, watched over by her well-meaning grandpa (Byun Hee-bong). Their untroubled existence feels a universe away from Lucy’s Mirando Corporation, but the initial manicured, and slightly manic, press conference lingers in the mind. Mija’s rural paradise seems too good to be true, a fantasy of an animal’s upbringing exploited to make viewers feel less guilty about eating hot dogs. It’s clear reality is going to encroach, and when it does, Bong knows how to make it hurt.
‘Snowpiercer’ Is Both a Sci-Fi Blockbuster and a True Original, for Better or Worse
The Korean auteur is drawing more and more comparisons to Steven Spielberg, and it’s not hard to see why—Okja is like a more brutal E.T., if E.T. had been at risk of being turned into mass-produced jerky. Like that film, Bong’s is about the loss of innocence, but more importantly, it’s about the value of innocence. Mija is neither a simpleton nor a fool for developing a genuine relationship with Okja, and she’s right to try and rescue her when the Mirando Corporation eventually comes to take her away. You’ll likely be gripping your armrest, practically cheering her on, as Mija gives pursuit to Okja’s captors—though her enemy is a vast capitalist entity, her cause doesn’t seem hopeless.
The power of Bong’s film is that it never lets go of Mija’s purity of spirit, holding it up as a lesson many of us (particularly the meat-eaters) could stand to re-learn. Okja is, of course, a product—viewers know that about her before we even see her face. She’s a stand-in for all kinds of factory farming, and of routine inhumanities that result from systems of mass production or global trade. But Mija’s love for her isn’t naïve, or easily dismissed. Even the Mirando Corporation understands how valuable this affection can be—it’s why Lucy is trying to introduce Okja as a real animal people can understand, so customers won’t be afraid to fry her genetically enhanced flesh for breakfast.
It’s not as preachy as it sounds; at least, not for most of the film’s two-hour running time. Okja is selected as the best super-pig in the world and the figurehead for Mirando’s upcoming product launch, and she’s whisked away after a filming session with Dr. Johnny Wilcox (Jake Gyllenhaal), a zoologist-cum-TV personality who’s spearheading Lucy’s PR push. Mija gives chase, and Bong dials up the skill for inventive action sequences he showed off in films like The Host and Snowpiercer to another dazzling level.
If you can see Okja in theaters, do try to—it’s an impressively epic production worth seeing on a big screen, and it contains one of the most joyous set-pieces I’ve seen in recent memory, as Mija breaks her buddy out of a truck and rides her through the streets of Seoul. The wild chase is so suspenseful and emotionally resonant, partly because of how well-developed the bond between Mija and her CGI pal is already; it’s the kind of exhilarating magic that’s certainly reminiscent of Mr. Spielberg.
But if you’ve seen Bong’s previous work, you know he has a taste for the macabre and for allowing his ensemble let loose. Paul Dano pops up as a militant vegan animal-rights activist intent on freeing Okja, with Steven Yeun as his nervy sidekick. Swinton delights in making the peppy Lucy into a takedown of every cheery marketing campaign, or overly friendly executive. Gyllenhaal is attempting an oddball high-wire villain performance that wouldn’t be out of place in an episode of the 1960s Batman; it will undoubtedly not work for everyone, but I confess to being charmed by his mania.
Best of all, Bong never loses his focus on Mija and Okja. As Okja progresses, the point the director is trying to make becomes more obvious, especially as Mija wanders into the bowels of the factory-farming system and experiences its truly unnatural horrors. Much as with Snowpiercer, it sometimes feels like Bong is trying to hit a nail on the head with a sledgehammer—he’s successful at getting his message across, but it gets tougher and tougher to absorb. Still, there’s something to be said for that intensity. Okja doesn’t want to end on the simple grace note of a happy ending, but it’s also not trying to leave the viewer miserable. It’s a sublime tale of the value of humanity, and the horrors we often have to suffer through to hold on to that.
“Your name’s ‘Baby’? B-A-B-Y ‘baby’? Well, you’ve got us all beat. You’re in all the songs.”
Debora, a luminous waitress of the type that exists only in the movies, is lamenting the fact that her name doesn’t feature in many songs at all, just T-Rex’s “Deborah” and Beck’s “Debra.” (Her sister, Mary, has a far more impressive list.) But she’s right that Baby, the male customer to whom she’s lamenting, has them all beat: Carla Thomas’s “B-A-B-Y,” Barbara Lewis’s “Baby I’m Yours,” Sam & Dave’s “When Something Is Wrong With My Baby,” and on and on all the way down to Simon and Garfunkel’s folk ditty “Baby Driver.”
It’s only fitting that the writer-director Edgar Wright’s new movie Baby Driver takes its name from a song. It does, after all, feature all of the songs noted above, among many, many others. Indeed, it’s the rare film that almost seems designed as an accompaniment to its soundtrack rather than the reverse.
Baby (Ansel Elgort) is a twentysomething getaway driver and the preferred wheelman for an Atlanta crime boss who goes by Doc (Kevin Spacey). A childhood accident left Baby with tinnitus—as Doc explains, “He’s got a hum in his drum”—and to drown it out Baby has music pumping through his earbuds more or less continuously. Fast cars, good tunes, helpings of danger and romance, all of it delivered with Wright’s customary visual panache—what more could one possibly ask of a summer movie?
The opening bank heist gives a taste of the pleasures to come. As his partners in crime do their part in the bank, Baby waits outside in a souped-up red Subaru, rocking out to The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion’s “Bellbottoms.” (Even his windshield wipers get in on the action.) And when his co-heisters return with their sacks of cash, what follows is a car chase of extraordinary delight. I’m tempted to call it an automotive ballet, full of vehicular pirouettes and tours en l’air. But a better description might be that it is a spatial-geometry puzzle conducted at high speed: What combination of swerves, spins, and reversals can get Baby through this tiny gap in traffic? What about that one? And the one after?
Baby is in a long line of reluctant criminals: Having made the youthful mistake of boosting Doc’s car long ago, he is required to work for him until the debt is paid off. Doc never uses the exact same crew twice, so we’re treated to varying combinations of the twitchy, homicidal Bats (Jamie Foxx); the louche Buddy (Jon Hamm) and his sultry girlfriend Darling (Eiza González); the surly Griff (Jon Bernthal); and the scar-faced Eddie No-Nose (Flea, of the Red Hot Chili Peppers). This thuggish menagerie stands in clear contrast to the beatific Debora (Lily James), Baby’s love interest and hope for redemption. This latter possibility becomes more complicated when, inevitably, Doc declines to let Baby return to civilian life.
There’s not a great deal more to the movie than this—but why should there be? Wright directs it all with infectious verve, whether it’s Baby sashaying down the sidewalk to “Harlem Shuffle” or the camera swirling around a romantic dinner between Baby and Debora with a giddy joy that recalls the “Kiss the Girl” scene in The Little Mermaid. Best of all are the car chases, which Wright choreographs with the same blend of wit and technical finesse he brought to the pool-cue, “Don’t Stop Me Now” zombie rumble in Shaun of the Dead.
Baby Driver is in direct lineage from Walter Hill’s The Driver (Hill himself actually has a cameo) and Nicolas Winding Refn’s Drive, though in place of the existential drama and angst it instead offers substantial doses of the Commodores, Golden Earring, and Martha Reeves & the Vandellas. And while it is less idiosyncratic and English in its particularity than Wright’s “Cornetto trilogy”—Shaun of the Dead, Hot Fuzz, and The World’s End—it is no less of a delight. Put in your metaphorical earbuds, turn the key in the ignition, and enjoy the cinematic highlight of the summer so far.
This post contains spoilers for the entirety of The Big Sick.
Kumail Nanjiani’s The Big Sick is one of the year’s most satisfying romantic comedies—but it’s something else, too. Written by Nanjiani and his wife Emily V. Gordon about their rocky real-life courtship, the film is a remarkable achievement for the depth of its unusual B-plot: the fictional Kumail’s relationship with his future in-laws (played by Holly Hunter and Ray Romano). It’s a singularly textured and honest portrayal, especially within Asian American pop culture, of the importance of parents in adulthood—as well as a candid look at the need to negotiate familial relationships when they become too dysfunctional.
A pharmaceutical lab’s worth of chemistry binds Nanjiani (who plays himself) and Zoe Kazan (who plays Emily), giving the first act its easygoing sweetness. But The Big Sick truly distinguishes itself when Kumail meets Emily’s parents, Beth and Terry, about 45 minutes in. After five months of dating, Emily discovers in her boyfriend’s room a yearbook page’s worth of photos: headshots of women that Kumail’s mother had introduced to her younger son in hopes of arranging a marriage. Seeing no future for them as a couple, Emily breaks things off. Shortly after, she lands in the hospital, where she’s placed in a medically induced coma. Reeling from the sudden severity of their daughter’s condition (and fully aware of Kumail’s photo collection), Beth and Terry initially swat their daughter’s ex away like a fly.
The Big Sick Is the Best Romantic Comedy in Years
It’s unusual enough for a film’s stakes to center on a guy’s relationship with his (ex-) girlfriend’s parents. In part because of the novelty of that premise, and in part because it’s executed so well, The Big Sick ends up being as much about Kumail’s incredibly intimate relationship with Beth and Terry as it does about his devoted romance with Emily. After being burned by the heat of Terry and (especially) Beth’s hostility, Kumail gets to know them as a couple and as individuals. A drunk Beth confides in Kumail about how no one in her family liked Terry at first. Worn out by the rollercoaster-like updates on his daughter’s medical status, Terry shares more than he perhaps should—that he cheated on Beth awhile ago and she hasn’t fully forgiven him for it. It’s the stuff movies are made of: A couple of strangers come into your life and a whole new world opens up that you didn’t even know existed.
With Emily lying in a coma, Beth and Terry are the only people in Kumail’s life who remotely understand what he is going through. (His juvenile friends at the comedy club provide little emotional support.) But the greatest comfort the older couple provides to Kumail is parental. Unlike his family, they’re willing to check out his standup (if only to distract themselves from their anxiety). And in contrast to his law-school-obsessed mother, they care little for status (they’re willing to overlook his shabby apartment and dingy air mattress).
That’s not to say that they’re perfect: Beth has anger issues (witness the instantly iconic scene where Hunter circles Romano like she’s stalking prey) and Terry at one point awkwardly asks Kumail his “stance” on 9/11 (in a scene that’s sure to be quoted for years to come for Nanjiani and Gordon’s flipping of the script on Islamophobia). But in this time of crisis, Kumail gets the attention and love from Beth and Terry that he needs. When Emily later wakes up, Beth plays an instrumental role in nudging the young couple together—so much so that it’s altogether possible that Kumail and Emily would never have ended up together if it weren’t for the older woman’s encouragement.
Kumail’s parents also occupy a crucial role in his romantic and emotional journey, though in a markedly different way. Played by Zenobia Shroff and Anupam Kher, the elder Nanjianis demonstrate at the movie’s outset that they’re more than willing to cut out of the family any relative who marries a non-Pakistani, non-Muslim partner. While the pair isn’t as well developed as Beth and Terry are, it’s poignant all the same to watch the comedian discover he can and should relate to his parents in new ways as he grows into a more well-rounded person.
It takes awhile—Kumail is used to dealing with his parents by being strategically passive and by conveniently compartmentalizing his life. He lets them believe that he’ll eventually marry the “right” kind of girl and take the LSAT because it’s easier than correcting them, and thus exudes a filial melancholy for most of the film that he sees as natural and inevitable. But Kumail finds that his methods of engagement (which will be familiar to many Asian American viewers) are unsustainable, and ultimately hurtful to everyone he loves. When his parents learn about Emily, they react—as she did in reaction to those headshots—as if they’re looking at a stranger.
A script less concerned with cultural realism and more insistent on Hollywood happy endings might have resolved with Kumail’s mother and father accepting Emily’s race and religion for the sake of their son’s contentment. To its credit, The Big Sick leaves the relationship between Kumail and his parents an open wound: The comedian moves to New York to pursue comedy without their blessing. “That’s a whole other story,” the non-resolution implies—the very lack of conclusion a kind of deference toward the intricacy of the situation.
Parents play a significant role in Desi-American romances like Master of None and The Mindy Project (as well as other recent works, from the documentary Meet the Patels to the standup special Hasan Minhaj: Homecoming King). In those stories, their Indian- and Pakistani-American authors make a point of demystifying arranged marriage, even if none of their protagonists choose it for themselves. The Big Sick is no exception. “You know what they call arranged marriage in Pakistan?” Kumail asks Emily during a fight, deflecting from the fact that he’s been lying by omission to her for months. “Marriage!” Still, he can’t envision an arranged marriage for himself because he himself has stereotyped his parents’ relationship for years as utterly lacking in romance. While getting to know Kumail, Beth asks him what movie his parents saw on their first date (a set-up), and he admits he’s never asked them. In The Big Sick’s penultimate scene, Kumail finally asks his father, and the older man names a musical, then smiles as he hums a melody from one of its songs—his wife’s favorite.
Within the scope of the film, it’s a small development, but it indicates that Kumail’s own eyes are being opened: about what an arranged marriage could be, and about how tender his parents’ relationship has been. And while there’s something off-puttingly impersonal about Kumail’s headshot collection (reminiscent of an analog Tinder), the film leaves open the possibility that he might have ended up clicking with one of the women his mom picked for him—the nerdy-cool magician Khadija (Crazy Ex-Girlfriend’s Vella Lovell)—had he been just a little bit more open to the idea. That’s the case even if Khadija doesn’t care for Kumail’s favorite show, The X-Files. Emily, for that matter, doesn’t seem all that impressed by his preferred horror movies, either.
The resourcefulness with which the film shows Kumail creating a route forward for himself—not simply following the American norms he grew up with or the Pakistani traditions his parents want him to embrace, but forging a third way based on his own romantic, emotional, and professional needs—is notable. And that’s why, for this Asian American viewer, at least, The Big Sick feels so substantial: It’s sensitive to culture while illustrating why it sometimes has to change, if only within a family.
The Big Sick makes room for the role of parents in one’s romantic life and affirms the importance of their approval and encouragement. The twist is that it’s Emily’s parents who serve as a real-life model of marriage and caretaking after Kumail has hidden too much of his life from his own mother and father to ask for support and advice. That a white couple plays that role for Kumail—including coaxing their daughter to reunite with her ex—is a reminder that the cultural gaps the film highlights aren’t so wide after all: Despite undeniable differences, forging bridges is possible. The Big Sick thus offers new ways of envisioning parental relationships—especially those that many Asian Americans navigate—in all their relatably messy, adaptive glory.
By Heart is a series in which authors share and discuss their all-time favorite passages in literature. See entries from Colum McCann, George Saunders, Emma Donoghue, Michael Chabon, and more.
What makes fiction writers turn to fiction? Other forms of prose storytelling—essays, memoir, journalism—offer undeniable advantages, after all: immediate high stakes, flesh-and-blood characters who come pre-made, the thrill of knowing certain events really happened. How to make sense of the fabulist’s impractical knack for wholesale invention, the impulse to depart real life’s sure footing for the uncharted waters of myth?
In a conversation for this series, the novelist Scott Spencer explained the literary appeal of making stuff up. Using Rudyard Kipling’s heartbreaking short story “The Gardener” as a guide, Spencer explored the ways fiction helps us grapple with life events too complex, challenging, or shameful to take on directly. We discussed the way imagined characters and scenarios allow authors to reckon with—and perhaps ultimately master—the messiest aspects of experience.
Finding the Emotional Truth in Horror Writing
Last year, the novelist Alexander Chee gave readers of this series some advice: If you want to bring your characters to life, take them to a party. Spencer’s new novel, River Under the Road, is proof of concept. As it tells the story of two Hudson Valley couples through the lens of 13 gatherings—a graduation celebration, a wedding, a housewarming, a fundraiser for the Mondale campaign, a detour through a New York sex club, a barbecue thick with opium smoke—readers see the way their public faces hide their private hopes, and chart the progress of their ambition and envy.
Scott Spencer is the bestselling author of novels including Endless Love, Waking the Dead, and A Ship Made of Paper, as well as two horror novels written as Chase Novak. His nonfiction has been published in magazines like The New Yorker, Harper’s, and Rolling Stone, and he’s taught fiction at Columbia University and the University of Iowa Writers’ Workshop. He spoke to me by phone.
Scott Spencer: It must have been 10 years ago when I discovered Rudyard Kipling’s “The Gardener.” It was pure chance, and a bit of ingenuity on the publisher’s part: Penguin had made an edition that sat right next to the cash registers, part of an array of impulse buys. The little pocketbook was selling for only 95 cents, which doesn’t even get you a candy bar nowadays. So I brought it home with me and read it—and the emotional impact of the book’s second story, “The Gardener,” was nearly overwhelming.
Before that, I hadn’t much cared for Kipling, associated as he was in my mind with childhood reading and appalling politics. But I was struck by the blunt and delicate precision (I know, an oxymoron) with which he approached the subject matter: A woman named Helen loses either her nephew or her son in World War I, and is forced finally to confront the depth of her loss in a vast military cemetery in France—just she and a stranger, the gardener, amid acres and acres of humble crosses.
Kipling remains cagey about the exact nature of their relationship. The story can be taken at face value or it can (more popularly) be read as the story of Helen, an upstanding woman, raising her own child out of wedlock, pretending to her English village that he, Michael, is her dead brother’s son. Throughout his life, the boy calls Helen “Auntie,” though he pleads with her, out of love and a sense of emotional, if not actual, truth, to let him call her “Mother.” Being an honest and pragmatic woman, she allows this only occasionally, and in private.
On his 18th birthday, Michael enlists in the British Army, and is slaughtered shortly after, his body covered over by debris and unable to be located. Much, much later Michael’s body is discovered and finally Helen is able to travel to his grave in a military cemetery in France to pay her last respects. The story, which is not very long, moves with the efficiency of a fable—years go by in a half sentence. The tone is almost matter-of-fact, but we are being set up by a master craftsman for the story’s devastating climactic scene. Helen wanders through a vast expanse of graves, all of them marked with a number, not a name, each individual soldier located only through a painstaking process of record-keeping. (It was Kipling who lifted the phrase “known unto God,” out of the Bible and into the cemeteries and the monuments for unknown soldiers.) Then, while searching the endless sea of crosses, helpless, Helen comes upon a gardener. Kipling describes the exchange this way:
The man lifted his eyes and looked at her with infinite compassion before he turned from the fresh-sown grass toward the naked black crosses.
"Come with me,” he said, "and I will show you where your son lies."
That’s a shocking—I would say incandescent—moment in a story that is steeped in irony and filled with lies, a world of conventions ruthlessly enforced and feelings buried or swallowed. But when the gardener lifts his eyes the story is swiftly brought to a sudden spiritual climax that is beautiful and satisfying.
In my reading of “The Gardener,” Helen is a character who has held onto her secret, to her one great love affair, for her entire life. Though she has called this boy her nephew for 18 years, the man in the cemetery, who looks at her for only one moment, says he’ll take Helen to her son. “When Helen left the cemetery she turned for a last look. In the distance she saw the man bending over his young plants; and she went away, supposing him to be the gardener.”
The story ends, at least in my edition, with an asterisk in the text that links to a line from the Bible, John 20:15: “Jesus saith unto her, ‘Woman, why weepest thou; whom seekest thou?’ She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, ‘Sir, if thou has borne him hence, tell me where thou has laid him.’”
It’s hard to talk about a Kipling story without talking about Kipling, a shameless apologist for English imperialism who coined the phrase “the white man’s burden” and who was the first person to refer to the Germans as Huns. He was a man who glorified war without ever having fought in one—and that’s where you get into the intense mix of grief and shame that Kipling surely brought to this story. Like so many young men at the time, Kipling’s son John was frantic to get into the war, but was at first turned down for duty because of weak eyes. His father, a person of almost unimaginable influence for a writer—the youngest Nobel prize winner, a darling of the English military and the British aristocracy—intervened, greasing the wheels and getting his son into the war, with the result that the younger Kipling was killed almost instantly.
When all hope of finding his son alive or dead was at last abandoned, Kipling, in his famous “Epitaphs of the War,” wrote: “If any question why we died / tell them, because our fathers lied.” You sense this same self-implication in “The Gardener.” After all, why were those boys clamoring to go over and get themselves blown up like that? Because a culture had been created that glorified that military sacrifice, and encouraged you to feel that your life was incomplete if you hadn’t fought for your country. Millions of English boys like John Kipling (and like the fictional Michael) were raised in this atmosphere of almost rabid patriotism, an atmosphere that Rudyard Kipling had not only exploited in his writing but also helped to create. And when war was declared, some six million Englishmen, many of them little more than boys, were put to battle; nearly one million were killed, and still more were grievously injured.
“The Gardener” gets to the grief and futility Kipling must have felt by the end of it all—for a while, he had nursed some hope that maybe John was still alive, perhaps taken prisoner. Though that alternative must have been terrifying, too, because were John to have been identified as Kipling’s son, he might be subject to particularly harsh treatment, since Kipling was so vociferous in his hatred of the Germans, and his characterization of them was feverish. In any case, the search went on for years, and every effort made to find the great man’s son. Kipling had worked to get John into battle and now he worked tirelessly to find what remained of him. Ultimately, a soldier did testify that he’d seen John hit by a shell, and that he was undoubtedly dead, his skull split open.
For me, the power of the story is in watching this artist grapple with his own material, in seeing what he has to do to get at his own feelings and reveal a profound truth. The simplest way to deal with this material would be to just tell the story of what happened to John, to write it as nonfiction or memoir. But there is a big difference between the biography and what ultimately unfolds across these nine or 10 pages. You’re watching life being transformed into art. To write this way is to seek a shape you can’t know until you see it, like reverse-engineering the skeleton key for a locked door you know you need to open.
Like most people, I find my own experiences—and my emotional responses to those experiences—fascinating and mysterious, even those that are a bit shaming, and a little repellent. As a writer, I try to turn my feelings and experiences into a different form entirely, something that gives me mastery over them, and also makes them meaningful to other people.
But when you take your own experiences and fictionalize them, make them bigger or smaller, engage in wit of the staircase, play the what-ifs out to their most far-reaching possibilities, you run the risk of your fictions taking precedence over your memories. When I look back at my life and think about what really happened, my memory is obscured by the stories I’ve created out of those incidents. In stories, as reality melds with art, the result sometimes feels truer than real life.
In Kipling’s case, he never found that grave. But in Helen’s case, Jesus leads her right to it. Was Kipling himself looking for an expiation of the shame he felt for his share of the responsibility for the loss of his son in such a useless and meaningless way—and all the other hundreds of thousands of wartime deaths? It could be said that all armed conflicts are a ludicrous and shameful waste of lives, but World War I has a special place in the history of futility—a war without clear purpose, a war whose resolution would ultimately make the world a far worse place. What moves me in “The Gardener” is the way Kipling so artfully seeks relief from his own complicity in the myths that led to war.
There are hints and a sense of buried truths in this story. Though my reading tells me that Michael is Helen’s son, there are readers who take her at her word and believe Michael to be her nephew. For those readers, the gardener saying, “I will take you to your son,” has a different, though still potent impact: Jesus is telling us that all those graves, the marked and the unmarked, contain the remains of all of our sons, that the loss and the grief is universal and without boundary.
Either way, we are left with the problem of a realistically presented story in which at the very last moment Jesus makes an appearance. If you read only the scholars and not the story, you would believe that some find the ending irritating. But I find “The Gardener” completely heartbreaking, and if the appearance of Jesus in the final paragraph doesn’t fully convince me of the existence of a world without end, it powerfully connects me to the desire for such a thing to be true.
I cherish the pathos mixed with relief we feel at the story’s conclusion, that experience that only art can give: an uncanny Nabokovian tingle, that sensation of the little hairs on your arm rising up for a second. That gardener is a reminder, as good a one as I know, a reminder that art can sometimes trump politics, and that stories can be transcendent.
As a man who makes movies about giant robots throwing each other through skyscrapers, Michael Bay has never been a director who leads with his themes. Action set-pieces have long been his primary concern, from his debut with Bad Boys to his most recent opus, Transformers: The Last Knight. But as I settled into a weekend showing of the fifth Transformer film (despite the warnings of my colleague Chris Orr), I was very quickly struck by a strange thought. First: Is that really Stanley Tucci playing Merlin? And second: Wait, is this a Michael Bay film where the U.S. military ... are the bad guys?
Transformers: The Last Knight has other villains, of course. The robotic goddess Quintessa, who seeks to rebuild her ruined planet Cybertron by draining Earth’s energies. Megatron, the evil Decepticon whom she enlists to do her bidding. But those CGI creations aren’t on screen for too long; for much of the movie, especially in its first (interminable) hour, our heroes (including Mark Wahlberg and a bunch of his robot friends) are being hunted by a black-clad special-ops unit, a wing of the military called the “Transformers Reaction Force,” which trips right off the tongue.
Yes, yes, I already know what you may be thinking: that Bay has made a film where U.S. soldiers are the bad guys before. His 1996 masterwork The Rock, certainly his greatest movie, sees a rogue force of Marines led by the disenchanted Frank Hummel (Ed Harris) seize Alcatraz Island and threaten to attack San Francisco unless the government compensates them for the deaths they suffered while running clandestine black-ops missions. But that film is sympathetic to the soldiers, even if they’ve gone too far; like many a Bay film, it portrays the civilian government as incompetent liars, a sentiment rooted in the post-Vietnam era he came of age in.
Transformers: The Last Knight Is More of the Same
That thread has run through so many of his movies. In Armageddon, NASA must turn to a private squad of oil drillers to save the world from an impending asteroid. In 13 Hours: The Secret Soldiers of Benghazi, Bay portrayed America’s intelligence agencies as a nuisance, a bunch of stuffed shirts getting in the way of the hard-scrabble soldiers trying to keep an escalating crisis under control. In the many Transformers movies, the military usually serves as a helpful liaison to the robotic titans doing battle with evil Decepticons on U.S. soil.
Except not now. Transformers: The Last Knight is a movie about a lot of things, including an Illuminati-esque secret society on Earth that has communed with the Transformers for centuries (William Shakespeare and Harriet Tubman are named among its membership). But to me, easily its most arresting image is those military men, now wearing black, bearing patches on their shoulders adorned with robot skulls. Starved for anything better to do during the film’s two-and-a-half-hour running time, I immediately started pondering Bay’s intentions. Is this just a cheap screenwriting trick? Or part of a larger storytelling turnaround?
The world of The Last Knight is different, too; while the other Transformers films take place in an America fundamentally unchanged from our own, this one has a much more dystopic feel. The protagonist, Cade Yeager (Wahlberg), lives in a junkyard while on the run from the military; he’s unable to talk to his daughter on the phone for fear that advanced tracking software will ping his voice to a location. A new character, Izabella (Isabela Moner), is a plucky 14-year-old who lives in the wreckage of Chicago, a city abandoned after a huge Transformer battle that’s now prowled by hostile robots and even nastier soldiers.
Bay isn’t much of a world-builder, so he doesn’t really dig into any of the concepts his film (written by Akiva Goldsman, Art Marcum, Matt Holloway, and Ken Nolan, and based, of course, on Hasbro toys) presents. He’s so fond of visual overload that it’s hard to keep track of just how ruined America is meant to appear. It’s certainly destroyed enough that when six giant metal horns suddenly sprout from the Earth midway through the film, no one seems that surprised. But there’s a strange pessimism to The Last Knight I haven’t sensed in Bay’s oeuvre before.
He’s always tried to turn stories of catastrophe—like Pearl Harbor and 13 Hours—into tales of jingoistic triumph. He usually idolizes military strength, delivering incredibly involved, near-fetishistic imagery of weapons being fired, explosions going off in detail, and soldiers dashing through hell to protect civilians (even against the threat of giant robots that can turn into sports cars). I’ve long found it remarkable that Bay tried to give Pearl Harbor (a deeply bad film, to be clear), a film about a national tragedy, a happy ending by depicting the Doolittle Raid. It doesn’t exactly work, but it’s easy to admire the effort, just as that film’s star Ben Affleck does in his notorious DVD commentary for Armageddon.
Maybe the ruined world of The Last Knight reflects Bay’s own growing disinterest in the Transformers franchise: After five films, he’s insisting he won’t make another one (though he also made that promise after the third and fourth films). But even if that’s true, it remains extremely unusual to see a film of his where soldiers don’t rush in and turn things around in the grand climax. They do try to assist the heroic Optimus Prime in his climactic grand battle, but serve only to complicate matters, firing tactical nukes at a useless target in a failed effort to save the day. The only remotely heroic moment comes when they apologize to Optimus for hunting him, and rip the robot-skull badges from their arms in shame. Still, it’s a humiliation, rather than a victory.
I never would have figured Michael Bay, whose vision of America has always felt one step removed from a Miller Lite commercial, for someone depressed at the direction of his country. But the one-two punch of 13 Hours (an incredibly muddled, pessimistic film, even as it celebrates the “secret soldiers” who fought at Benghazi) and The Last Knight (which is, to be fair, slightly more fanciful) has me worried for Hollywood’s premier auteur of bombast. The end of The Last Knight suggests a return to medieval rule for our ruined Earth, perhaps under the guidance of Mark Wahlberg, who has proven himself by summoning, Arthur-style, a very big sword. It’s bleak, but even bleaker is that this may be the only future Bay can imagine for America in 2017.
If you’re ever in need of perspective on whether our society is in true upheaval or if we’re only experiencing the same cultural battles that have raged forever, old Geraldo clips on YouTube will always offer some clarity. Recently I found myself binging on the talk show’s coverage of “club kids,” a scene of 1990s New York City partiers who wore fantastical and frequently gender-bending outfits. In various episodes over the years, Rivera invited them on and then scoffed at their floral masks and harlequin makeup, their coy references to drug use, and their queerness. Once, they inspired him to ask, somewhat in earnest, “It’s four in the morning—do you know where your children are?”
Last week, RuPaul retweeted a link to one of those episodes, from 1990, which featured him a few years before he became America’s most famous drag queen. Midway through, Rivera asked whether dressing outlandishly is an art, and RuPaul gave an exuberant yes. “I dropped out of society when Reagan got in office,” he added, then took the opportunity to rally the audience: “Everybody say ‘love!’ Everybody say ‘love!’”
Why Drag Is the Ultimate Retort to Trump
Remarkably, RuPaul doesn’t seem to have changed much since that 1990 appearance—and the story he’s woven about drag has stayed remarkably consistent too. He was using his current catchphrase, “You’re born naked and the rest is drag,” back then. During the ninth-season finale of RuPaul’s Drag Race, which aired Friday, RuPaul repeated his Geraldo routine: “Everybody say ‘love!’” he commanded. And just as RuPaul was drawing a contrast between Ronald Reagan and himself back then, he’s doing so with Donald Trump now.
Owing either to the new president or to record viewership numbers or to both, Season 9 of the cheeky crossdressing competition has been accompanied by a heap of publicity noting drag’s political implications (guilty!). The finale leaned into that hype, hard. Contestants walked out of an entrance in the shape of RuPaul’s lipsticked mouth over which the word “American” was written. RuPaul was introduced as “our commander in chief” and arrived with dancing Secret Service agents in hotpants. Throughout the hour, he joked about the president: “Now take that to your special prosecutor and investigate it,” he cackled at one point.

In Drag Race fan world, though, the finale will likely be mostly remembered for its format. For the first time, the finalists to be America’s Next Drag Superstar had to spend the last episode of the season locked in battle, performing head-to-head lip syncs to pop songs in order to win RuPaul’s favor. This added a heavier dose of suspense. It also meant an early upset when the two seemingly favored contenders for the crown—the attitude-packed Chicago dancer Shea Coulee and the cerebral Brooklyn artist Sasha Velour—went head-to-head in the first round, guaranteeing that one of them would not be in the final two.
Velour beat Coulee and ended up the eventual champion, also triumphing over the New York City nightlife fixture Peppermint. Ostensibly her victory was thanks to her clever set pieces during the lip syncs: First Velour unleashed a swirl of rose petals stored in her gloves and wig, and later she cracked open a white skull cap while pantomiming agony. That Velour forwent lip-sync staples like splits and high-kicks while still delivering something fun to watch is no small feat, and on YouTube, clips of her moody, highly art-directed nightclub shows are similarly electrifying. The go-to move for the 30-year-old is to widen her eyes and grin with the same maniacal glint as Annie Lennox, a primary influence.

Lip syncs aside, though, the outcome for Season 9 fits exceedingly well into the narrative RuPaul has always spun about drag’s social relevance. Both finalists could signify cultural progress: Peppermint would have been the show’s first openly transgender winner, and Velour is among the most high-minded, politically outspoken drag queens to ever compete. The Vassar-educated Fulbright scholar is the child of professors, and whatever stereotypes you might apply to that description apply to her: “I try to write an essay every time I speak,” she joked to The Observer. During the finale, Velour even acknowledged a tweet about her that went, “If you tell your saddest gay story while doing your makeup Sasha Velour appears in your mirror and gives a Queer History lesson.” She now wants to use her platform for queer activism; accepting the crown on Friday night’s broadcast, Velour issued a call to “change the motherfucking world!”
Velour’s ideology also takes the form of aesthetic. Throughout Season 9, Velour’s claims to being “the future of drag” were bolstered by her striking look: bald-headed, with outfits that tweaked cliches of femininity and referenced history. But she’s certainly not the first Drag Race winner to triumph on weirdness and intellect rather than traditional pageant prettiness. Past champions have included the horror-movie creature Sharon Needles, the camp comedian Jinkx Monsoon, and the relentlessly meta Alaska Thunderfuck. All of whom of course follow RuPaul, who began his entertainment career as a short-haired, politically engaged “genderfuck” artist.
If there is an evolution in Velour’s brand of oddity, it’s in its seriousness, which almost feels generational: As RuPaul has said about recent crops of Drag Race contestants, “Everyone is getting woke.” Velour’s signature quote from this season might have been “Don’t joke about that,” a rare thing to hear from a drag queen (uttered by Velour in response to a crack about eating disorders). Her performances don’t really aim for laughs, and as noted, she is anything but coy about her politics. In an interview with EW, she precisely laid out her view of drag’s social role:
Drag resists conservatism in the most basic way possible, and also in the most effective way possible, because it’s improper when it comes to looks, which is everything in conservative systems. Conservatism is all about surfaces and labels and presentation, and drag says, no, we refuse to follow any rules about that.
As if to prove her point, a commenter below that Velour interview wrote, “Would you let this person babysit your children?” Reading that snippet of condescension made me think back to the suit-wearing Wall Street type in Geraldo’s 1990 audience who played foil to the carefree club kids, telling them, “When it comes to who’ll lead our country, prepare our country to go into the 21st century, I don’t want any of you in leadership roles.” RuPaul replied with only a grin, but it was clear he did have a leadership agenda—one that’s still in progress today. “Everyone at home touch your TV set,” he said back then. “This is the most important show you’ll ever watch.”
If you watched Sunday night’s fourth-season finale of Silicon Valley without reading the accompanying online chatter, you might not have realized that it marked the final appearance of one of its most beloved characters, Erlich Bachman (played by the comedian T.J. Miller). On a mission to retrieve the tech CEO Gavin Belson (Matt Ross) from his retreat at a Tibetan monastery, Erlich gets waylaid at an opium den; a frustrated Gavin pays the proprietors to keep him busy there for five years. It sounds final, but it’s also exactly the kind of ridiculous predicament Erlich got himself in for the entirety of the show’s run. So why is this the way Silicon Valley chose to say goodbye to him?
As usual with an unexpected showbiz departure, there have been multiple reported sides to the story. It’s hard to imagine that Miller’s departure will be a good thing for Silicon Valley: Erlich has always served as a delightful narrative wrench for the show, sidetracking stories and upsetting the Pied Piper team’s apple cart with his oft-stoned, egotistical antics. A Silicon Valley without Erlich will be a smoother show, but not necessarily a better one—especially since the character embodied the sort of unrestrained, tech-industry id the series sought to satirize.
Silicon Valley Looks to Reinvent the Internet
Stranger still is the abruptness of Erlich’s departure. He was a consistent thorn in the side of the show’s protagonist, Richard (Thomas Middleditch), but it seems there’ll be little to no acknowledgment of his absence, which is odd considering the entire ensemble still lives in Erlich’s house. Silicon Valley is known for its emphasis on elaborate season-long plots that resolve well in beautifully constructed last episodes. The second-season finale “Two Days of the Condor” remains one of the most hilariously tense pieces of TV comedy I’ve ever seen, having its story dominoes fall with all the tautness of a heist movie. Compared to that, the season-four finale “Server Error” felt comparatively tame, focusing mostly on Richard’s maniacal efforts to create a new kind of internet, which were helped along by a confusing deus ex machina.
On top of all that, Erlich is apparently gone forever, with barely a sendoff. Miller’s departure was first announced in late May, framed as a “mutual decision” by an HBO representative, but reports have persisted that Miller was taken aback by the firing. Miller is an outsized personality both off and on the screen; you can listen to any of his podcast appearances, especially his wide-ranging interviews with the comedian Pete Holmes on You Made It Weird, to get a sense of that. A recent Vanity Fair profile of Zach Woods, who plays Silicon Valley’s beloved character Jared, included a loaded-sounding quote from Middleditch, who said the cast were real-life friends, “especially amongst the people that are still on the show.”
Adding to all this confusion is a Hollywood Reporter interview with Miller that posted right after the finale aired. It both clears the air and doesn’t, suggesting a narrative in which HBO wanted to scale back his role on the show, and Miller instead insisted on leaving for good. The interview is another great example of Miller’s extremely strong personality—in it, he brags about his busy schedule, repeatedly (and self-deprecatingly) plugs his upcoming lead role in The Emoji Movie, remarks on Silicon Valley’s repetitive plot structure, and fires parting shots at both Middleditch and the show’s showrunner Alec Berg.
“I’m doing a lot as a public servant and jester to the American public. As Kristen Stewart always says, ‘It’s worldwide. It’s worldwide,’” is one of his more memorable quotes in the piece. “[Berg] went to Harvard, and we all know those kids are fucking idiots. That Crimson trash. Those comedy writers in Hollywood are fucking Harvard graduates and that’s why they’re smug as a bug,” is another. Whether or not Erlich could return, it does seem like Miller is burning a bridge—and the show’s creator, Mike Judge, confirmed in a separate interview that “[Miller] didn’t want to do the show anymore.”
Silicon Valley still has one of the brightest ensembles on TV, from Woods and Middleditch to Kumail Nanjiani (breaking out this summer in The Big Sick) and Martin Starr. Its future at HBO seems secure, and though the Season 4 finale felt like it was scrambling to set up next year’s plotlines, Richard’s “new internet” project should provide a wealth of comedy to mine in the coming season. But Miller’s anarchic spirit, on-set drama or no, will undoubtedly be missed.
This post contains minor spoilers through Season 6, Episode 10 of Veep.
The finale of the last season of Veep found Selina Meyer, mediocre politician and terrible person, laid low for her shortcomings. She had lost the U.S. presidency. The one real achievement she had accomplished during her brief stint in the Oval Office—brokering freedom for Tibet—had been, in the eyes of the American media, the doing of the new administration. The end of the show’s Season 5 finale was a carnival of indignity that found the now-former president thoroughly laid low, forced to listen to the inaugural exercises of the first woman to have been elected, rather than fated, to the presidency. It was demeaning and awkward and, yet, comforting: Actions have consequences, that finale insisted. To the extent that Veep functions as a political morality play, the sad ending for Meyer and her minions doubled in that way as a hopeful one for everyone else.
Fast-forward, though, to the finale of Season 6 of the HBO show, the one that aired on Sunday evening. The one in which Meyer’s comeuppance has been thoroughly reversed. Meyer is on the one hand, as a politician and person, more awful than ever—more craven, more selfish, more willing to betray those who are loyal to her for momentary political gain. Meyer takes it upon herself to name Catherine’s (and Marjorie’s, and Richard’s) new baby—“Little Richard,” natch—and then to further exploit the newborn by informing the media about her status as the proud grandmother of “an African American baby.” She attributes her stay at the place she had been referring to as a “spa”—a rehab clinic called Whispering Sands, where she stayed after losing the presidential election—by inventing a story about Catherine’s struggles with mental illness. She makes fun of her presidential library’s placement—on the land that had housed the enslaved people who had been forced to work on Yale’s campus—by way of a joke about the Underground Railroad.
Again and again, Meyer is insensitive and self-absorbed and, in general, cringeworthily awful. And yet the end of Season 6 of Veep finds her, in spite of all this, energized and ebullient: She is running for president, yet again. Things are looking up for her, yet again.
This has been the push-and-pull that has sustained the series for its six seasons: lows colliding with highs, incompetence colliding with the good luck that will make it irrelevant. Veep has prided itself on mocking not particular politicians or administrations—“the show has never been about current politics,” its current showrunner, David Mandel, told the New York Times; “it’s about politics in general”—and here is that insistence on display: “Groundbreaking” is an episode that satirizes, perhaps above all, the various inertias of the American political system.
Meyer has been president before; it stands to reason, then, in her mind—and in the minds of the people on her team—that she should be once again. Amy has been her chief of staff; it stands to reason, in Amy’s mind, that she should be once more. Ben and Kent and Dan, who have done the various typical post-White House stints in corporate America and broadcast journalism, team up to form a consulting firm (BKD)—and, then, to get their old boss re-elected.
Veep has always been exceptionally good at creating a sense of suffocation, even in its comedy: Its rooms are small. Its clothes are tight. Its roving cameras capture tight—too-tight, uncomfortably tight—shots of its characters. “Groundbreaking,” which is figuratively about the shattering of glass ceilings but actually about digging through dirt, brings all that to a thematic conclusion: Here is Washington revealed in its crushing insularity. Here are its revolving doors, treated as the centripetal forces they are. Here is a place where that most undemocratic of things takes place—where power begets power.
“To team Meyer! Second time’s the charm!” Selina toasts to her team. Kent interrupts: “It’s actually the fourth,” he says. But, of course, the number doesn’t much matter. As Meyer tells a crowd in Iowa, at the conclusion of the episode:
You know there’s been a lot of speculation about me running for president—again. But tonight is not about that. No, over the next few months I will embark on what I call a feeling tour across America, from Palo Alto to Hollywood, from Iowa to New Hampshire, and from the Hamptons to Wall Street. I’m going to be with the real folks out there. I want to feel their feelings and I want to hear their speakings. You know, I have to tell you, when I left the White House, I could’ve gone anywhere. But I didn’t. I chose the South Bronx so I could feel and smell what America was all about. It smells good!
You could read this as one of Veep’s rare, direct commentaries on actual politicians—a subtle jab at the policies and strategies of Hillary Clinton, or at the linguistic stylings of Donald Trump. But you could also read it—especially given Meyer’s potential competitor for the presidency, the monumentally inept Jonah Ryan—as something much more pessimistic than that: as a reminder of how deeply, despite it all, Selina Meyer and her staff feel entitled to the presidency. And of how realistic, despite it all, are their chances of regaining it. Veep functions according to a kind of perverse form of anti-gravity: Those who have risen up, in this universe, have a way of staying elevated, whatever their other shortcomings. People here may be engaged in “public service”; they may have extremely little sense of the “service” part, yet there they will stay nonetheless—in office, in the spotlight, and into the next season.
Jeff Tweedy’s Together at Last, an acoustic album of songs he’s previously recorded, forces the listener to reckon anew with how one of the best songwriters of our day mostly sings in gibberish. Without the layers of instrumental intrigue that distinguish Wilco’s folk rock, the American Dixie cup drinker assassin-ing down the avenue of “I Am Trying to Break Your Heart” and the muzzle of bees of “Muzzle of Bees” have nowhere to hide—they ask to be heard and understood.
Together at Last also, of course, demonstrates Tweedy’s remarkable talent with songcraft. Even the most avant-garde of Wilco tracks hold up here, even when it’s just harmonica, guitar, and maybe some whistling; a song like “Via Chicago,” you’re reminded, is catchy, not just creepy. You’re also reminded of how distinctive and lovely Tweedy’s voice is: his slight huskiness, his way of ending words quietly, the willingness to crack when he wails a high note. But more than anything the album highlights that his poetry often seems to be about poetry itself.
Wilco's Star Wars Is a Random Act of Love
Like a lot of rockers, Tweedy creates lyrics in a process resembling automatic writing: He gets a melody down by singing true nonsense, and then he pieces together words that might fit the syllables. “The gift, I think, is the ability to be able to go into your subconscious, come back unscathed, and present something from it,” Tweedy told Joe Fassler for The Atlantic in 2014. He added that the reason we need poetry and songs is “to say the things that can only be expressed in this kind of elegant, inexplicable way. Things that, if you could explain them straightforwardly, you wouldn’t have to have poetry, you wouldn’t have to have songs.”
The striking thing about that point of view in relation to Tweedy’s catalogue is that many of his songs seem to be about the impossibility of articulating accurate meaning through words. The title of Yankee Hotel Foxtrot came from a military code broadcast by radio, an apt metaphor for Tweedy’s take on communication: His narrator is always transmitting, hopeful but also worried he’ll be deciphered by his intended audience. “I Am Trying to Break Your Heart” conveyed this, in part with echoing guitar strums and white noise, and in part with Tweedy’s mad-libs. The aquarium drinker is drunk; his expression of affection comes out as “tongue-tied lightning” and sincerity mistaken for sarcasm. The only time there’s clarity is when he’s talking to himself: “What was I thinking when I let go of you?”

“Muzzle of Bees” might also be about mealy-mouthedness getting in the way of intimacy. The 2004 album it came from, A Ghost Is Born, arrived with a narrative about Tweedy struggling with drug use, migraines, and depression; the notion of a stinging swarm around his head would seem to fit. In the delicate, deceptively pastoral song, it’s as though he’s describing what he sees in order to avoid saying what he feels. There’s even small talk about communication—are dogs barking out of laughter or anger? Then finally comes a devastating little vignette about indirect, eyes-to-the-ground emotional exchange: “I’m assuming you got my message on your machine / I’m assuming you love me, and you know what that means.” The listener is, naturally, left to guess what that means; for Together at Last, a ruminative passage of finger-picked guitar provides only tonal clues.
That song also showcases the way Tweedy often uses natural imagery as a concrete anchor amid his abstract explorations of the mind. “The sun gets passed from tree to tree silently, then back to me,” he repeats, as if it were a calming mantra. In “Laminated Cat,” a lovely and under-heard tune from his side project Loose Fur, the seasons keep changing but Tweedy’s sense of ennui doesn’t: In summer, autumn, winter, and spring, he’s still “weeding out the weekends” with books that “know they’re not worth reading.” For “Sky Blue Sky,” he suggests, perhaps sarcastically, that a cloudless day would mean “this rotten time / wouldn’t seem so bad to me now.” “In a Future Age” puts nature’s indifference in more apocalyptic terms: “Some trees will bend and some will fall / But then again so will us all.” The newest track of Together at Last, 2011’s ”Dawned on Me,” seems to crystalize his view on the outer world: “Every night is a test / To the east from the west / The sun rises and sets / That’s the sun at it’s best.”
The predictability of sunrise and seasonal change also, thematically, stands in contrast to the unruliness within Tweedy’s narrators. Together at Last opens with the disturbing, famous lines of “Via Chicago”: “I dreamed about killing you again last night, and it felt all right to me.” In addition to bolstering the love-is-violent motif of 1999’s Summerteeth, the words are a sign of Tweedy’s interest in the subconscious: The entire track portrays someone pushed and pulled by inner forces they’re not in control of, in a manner comparable to how Tweedy has described his songwriting process. He tackles a similar theme more perkily on “I’m Always in Love,” in which he seems bewildered by his own feelings of affection. “I don’t get the connection,” he confesses.
That mysteriousness of connection, more than anything, seems to be Tweedy’s obsession. “Hummingbird” plays as an impressionistic but unusually legible short story about a wanderer—someone who, as with so many other Tweedy songs, seems allergic to forming lasting bonds. But bonds are made nevertheless, as seen in the kiss-off chorus that describes the way the mind recalls a relationship: “Remember to remember me / Standing still in your past / floating fast like a hummingbird.” And the wrenching “Ashes of American Flags” can be parsed as a shut-in’s stream of consciousness, the hazy testimony of someone who says they “shake like a toothache when I hear myself sing.” For Tweedy, the fear of expression is the fear of one’s own desire—“All my lies are only wishes.”
The kind of deciphering I’ve been doing here, it should be noted, is tentative and incomplete—as analysis basically always has to be with lyrics and poetry. What does “Crawling is screw faster lash / I blow it with kisses” from “Via Chicago” mean? No idea. Tweedy is fascinated by the way both emotion and art can’t quite be reduced to straightforward language, but he’s also fascinated by the fact that we keep trying. “I wonder why we listen to poets when nobody gives a fuck,” he asks on “Ashes of American Flags,” and his catalogue itself is an answer.
There’s a reason museum-goers pause at the entrance to Life Is Cheap, Anicka Yi’s current show at the Guggenheim. A faint scent greets them, emanating at intervals from a set of metal canisters positioned next to the gated entryway. It’s slightly antiseptic but sweet—not enough to be disruptive, but disorienting nonetheless. And so, the day I visited, it was common to see casual viewers take a moment to acclimate themselves, to figure out whether they were turned off by the perfumed odor hanging in the air, or charmed. Either way, to see the exhibit, you need to inhale.
The scent is, in fact, an artwork called Immigrant Caucus, and is made, according to the wall text, from “chemical compounds derived from Asian American women and carpenter ants.” If the description sounds odd or nonsensical, consider its creator. Yi, a Seoul-born, Queens-based artist who is crafting some of today’s most intriguing experimental art, is interested in the common psychology of smells: the sort of appointment viewing that unifies people in a space, while allowing for myriad interpretations. In the past few years, the artist has worked with a synthetic biologist to create a pungent piece made of microbial samples (swabbed from the cheeks and vaginas of women artists), filled a gallery with the scent of menthol, and fried up inedible flowers coated in tempura batter. With each project, Yi appears to be intrigued by olfaction’s ability to manipulate how people discern the things in front of them—by, in effect, the subtle invasiveness of smell.
What Does Art Smell Like?
In fiddling with perception, Yi operates at an intensely timely moment, when the language of persuasion plays out explicitly across newspaper opinion pages and on Facebook feeds. Her deep dive into the mind-altering possibilities of smells suggests a totally different way of taking up space and legitimizing a point of view (in this case, that of an ant, an immigrant woman, or some combination of both). Yi calls her work a “biopolitics of the senses,” and indeed she seems intent on cheerily debunking a variety of hierarchies—whether of gender or citizenship or cleanliness—through some strangely winsome world-building.
The Guggenheim show represents the culmination of Yi’s Hugo Boss Prize win in 2016 (edging out more established artists like Tania Bruguera and Mark Leckey). The set-up is simple: Two dioramas face each other in a cozy but high-ceilinged room. One, Force Majeure, continues a preoccupation the artist has long had with bacteria, in this case gathered and cultivated from sites in Manhattan’s Chinatown and Koreatown. A lively, moldy growth of varied colors—blues, greens, pinks, and marigold yellows—creeps over framed silk flowers and agar plates. Up close, the spotted surfaces remind you of high-school lab experiments. From afar, the colorful drips and dots create a delicate, living mural, a sly comment, perhaps, on what gets perceived as lovely, and why.
The walls of the other diorama, Lifestyle Wars, are essentially a maze filled with live ants; the same scent visitors are smelling is piped into the display. In the middle, a tangle of Ethernet cables, aquarium gravel, and imitation pearls create a graphic, black-and-white bizarro world reminiscent of the surface of a motherboard. Yi was apparently drawn to ants for their matriarchal societal structures, and the efficacy of their labor; the work as a whole suggests an intricate technological system, made up of both organic and synthetic parts. The scent connects viewers to the ants, a kind of invisible force that pulls everyone onto the same playing field.
Both pieces illuminate Yi’s interest in building rich, sensory universes that undercut common assumptions (for instance, that mold is disgusting, ants are tiny and therefore trifling, and art spaces should not smell of anything). Yi has tweaked such expectations before: In her 2015 show, You Can Call Me F, at the experimental art space The Kitchen, the artist used the stigma of disease and fear of contagion as metaphors for how society sanitizes women—cue the tampon and deodorant ads—by erecting quarantine tents alongside a “collective bacteria” created from women’s DNA samples. (Things went beyond metaphor, with a musky odor from the latter permeating the room over the course of the show.)
Yi’s extreme, almost academic, focus on her chosen themes could be off-putting, but it’s paired with a refreshingly humane curiosity. This sensibility was on full display in a video of hers included in this year’s Whitney Biennial. The Flavor Genome (2016) was a peculiar, gorgeous travelogue: Half-surrealist manifesto, half-documentary, the 22-minute fictive work follows a “flavor chemist” into the Amazon. A woman narrates the journey in ornate, quasi-scientific language, discussing the possibilities of a drug derived from a mythical flower that might be able to produce empathy in humans. (As Yi has said, “And if you take this drug you can perceive what it’s like to be a pink dolphin or an angry teenager.”) It was one of the more audacious and convincing examples of narrative-driven art that I’d seen in some time.
The bulk of Yi’s work (even The Flavor Genome, with its deliriously obsessive search for an elusive flower essence) underscores a desire to push back against a world that so prizes what the eye can see—and to explore, thoughtfully and with no small amount of joy, the lesser senses. This is a hard sell in the art world, as the concurrent show of mostly paintings by masters from the Guggenheim’s collection (Picasso, Modigliani, Kandinsky, and the like) makes eminently clear. But Life Is Cheap makes a strong case for Yi to continue deepening the singular story she’s been telling over the years.
With Immigrant Caucus in particular, museum-goers will grasp what Yi means when she says, “Smell is a form of sculpture because it has a lot of volume. Also, it collapses the distance that painting has built into it—it’s like, ‘Look, but don’t touch, and keep your distance.’” Smell is also a really good stand-in for intolerance of other sorts. Because smell is most certainly more than itself: It’s a thing that, as it pertains to humans, gets tangled so often and so much with ethnicity and identity and class: Who sweats? Who showers? Who works all day on their feet with no air conditioning? Who steps from temperature-controlled apartment to temperature-controlled cab to temperature-controlled office? Who handles fish? Who then eats in on a pristine plate?
And so, that scent being spritzed from the canisters in the Guggenheim does many things at once. It pulls from sites that are seen as gross (say, a toilet handle in Chinatown) and translates that grossness into something that is a little more appealing, a little more sweet, but that still, indubitably, retains something of its origins. And then it enters your nostrils.
Mahershala Ali Thinks We Can Still Make This Country Great
Carvell Wallace | GQ
“In our interviews, I notice that Ali uses the phrase ‘fold into yourself’ a lot, the same phrase that came up in his SAG acceptance speech. It’s not until our last 10 minutes together that I ask him about it. Standing outside in downtown Los Angeles, now exposed to the stares of people who slow down when they pass, some trying surreptitiously to take pictures, he pauses before he answers ... ‘I think I identify with characters who have to make themselves smaller,’ he says. ‘Because that’s been my experience, as a large black man, to make people feel safer.’”
The Infinite Melodies of Young Thug
Judnick Mayard | The Fader
“His gift lies in his effortless capacity to glide between melodic crooner, sheer rap talent, and creative shapeshifter ... Thugga’s true talent is not just in what kind of music he can rap on but how he can flip almost anything to represent his singular existence. In this, Beautiful Thugger Girls becomes more than a country album: the music isn’t his master, instead he bends it to his will.”
Murakami and Flash Fiction: The Week in Pop-Culture Writing
When Fan Fiction and Reality Collide
Amanda Hess | The New York Times
“The mainstream entertainment world has an ambivalent relationship to the online fan-fiction enclaves that have built up around it, where fans seize control of characters or celebrities and subvert their narratives for their own ends. Media power players show great fascination in the stuff—particularly after the financial success of Fifty Shades of Grey, the BDSM-lite series that started as erotic Twilight fan fiction—even as they rib its literary amateurism and recoil at its sexual taboos.”
Mobb Deep’s Prodigy Is the Symbol of East Coast Rap
Keith Murphy | Vibe
“You would be hard pressed to find a more pronounced lyrical jump than Prodigy’s startling evolution from Mobb Deep’s uneven 1993 debut Juvenile Hell to their landmark 1995 breakthrough The Infamous. Within two years, he had transformed into a feared wordsmith who wrote one of the most memorable opening lines in hip-hop’s highly competitive canon.”
GLOW Is the Past and Future of Women’s Wrestling
Mairead Small Staid | The Ringer
“Despite GLOW’s rhinestone-encrusted shrug in the direction of verisimilitude, and despite its emphasis on campiness and comedy over athleticism, the show occupies a privileged place in the history of women’s wrestling. This is understandable: Something is better than nothing when it comes to women in the squared circle — even if ‘something’ has been, more often than not, cringingly awful.”
Why Stephen King Remains Hollywood’s Favorite Author
Charles Bramesco | The Guardian
“Pop culture’s most precious renewable resource, King stays impervious to the whims of hipness by creating work that can be retrofitted to any period’s ‘in’ sensibility. King is like Shakespeare in the malleability of his work, the ease with which primal themes that can be styled to match the dominant mode of a given era.”
What the Fargo Ending Says About the Show’s Policewomen
Jen Chaney | Vulture
“That conclusion invites the audience to decide whether the universe bends toward justice or injustice, a question that always hangs over the proceedings in Fargo. But I also think it raises another question, about what place a woman in law enforcement has in this Fargo world, and whether she can ever fully, without caveat, own and exercise her power.”
The Mastery of Arundhati Roy’s The Ministry of Utmost Happiness
Anita Felicelli | The Los Angeles Review of Books
“Identity is at the heart of The Ministry of Utmost Happiness. Not only India’s identity, or Kashmir’s identity, but also the identities of individual people, often those considered marginalized. However, it’s not identity as it is considered in public discourse—a fixed category, a biological mark or trait that can’t be altered from what it appears on the surface to be. In the novel, as in life, identity is an incredibly slippery thing, a human something that resists boundaries and artificial borders.”
When Video Games Were Playable Stories
Oliver Lee Bateman | The Paris Review
“If one assumes Skyrim is first and foremost a game qua game—an experience like Street Fighter that demands certain finely tuned skills to win—then this makes sense. But Skyrim, like Fallout 4 and the recent Mass Effect: Andromeda, is a pretty boneheaded game—it’s not especially demanding to navigate its world. The chief function of its lore, for the child I was and the person I am now, is as a cure for loneliness.”
Who Owns Black Pain?
Zadie Smith | Harper’s
“[Jordan] Peele has found a concrete metaphor for the ultimate unspoken fear: that to be oppressed is not so much to be hated as obscenely loved. Disgust and passion are intertwined. Our antipathies are simultaneously a record of our desires, our sublimated wishes, our deepest envies. The capacity to give birth or to make food from one’s body; perceived intellectual, physical, or sexual superiority; perceived intimacy with the natural world, animals, and plants; perceived self-sufficiency in a faith or in a community. There are few qualities in others that we cannot transform into a form of fear and loathing in ourselves.”
Queen Sugar debuted last fall as a drama about the lives of the estranged Bordelon siblings: Charley, Ralph Angel, and Nova return to their home in Louisiana after the death of their father Ernest, an indebted sugar-cane farmer, and are faced with the daunting task of reviving the hundreds of acres of land they’ve inherited. The Ava DuVernay-helmed show, based on the 2014 novel by Natalie Baszile and directed entirely by women, was quick to amass both a highly engaged audience and critical praise, the latter largely for its difficult examination of slavery’s imprint on a complicated black family, deep character development, and superb use of the landscape of the American South.
A pivotal scene of that first season saw the siblings making arrangements for their father’s funeral and bickering about who would pay for the casket. When Charley, a stubborn ex-corporate type who’d flown in from California, tried to hire servers for the reception, her sister Nova pushed back firmly: “We don’t honor our father by having strangers serve those grieving. We serve comfort food for those who need comfort and we do it with our own hands.” The exchange crystallized the series’ main theme—that to fully realize the legacy bestowed on them, the siblings would have to do the grunt work of repairing their family. Later, the trio emerged at the funeral dressed crisply in all white and holding hands. The message was clear: They were united, even while struggling to find their footing with each other.
Claiming the Future of Black TV
With its return this week (the first two episodes of its new season aired Tuesday and Wednesday on OWN and can be streamed at Oprah.com), Queen Sugar seems intent on continuing to mine themes of familial inheritance and societal baggage as they affect the lives of the siblings and, increasingly, of their children.
The second-season premiere finds the Bordelons congregating for a family tradition: a group dinner to mark Juneteenth, the emancipation holiday commemorating the belated liberation of enslaved people in the Confederacy more than two years after the signing of the Emancipation Proclamation. The dinner is jubilant—in the name of so-called “freedom day,” Aunt Violet approves blueberry pie before dinner for her grandson, Blue—until Charley’s son is noticeably late.
The siblings, of course, are there, all with their own troubles: Charley, is trying to smooth over the reservations of investors in the mill she purchased at the end of Season 1 and finalizing her divorce with her philandering husband, the NBA-player Davis; Nova, an often conflicted journalist and activist, is attempting to raise money for a community bail fund; and Ralph Angel, a freshly paroled single father is juggling tractor breakdowns and soybean prices as he struggles to be taken seriously as a full-time farmer—by his neighbors, at times, but mostly by Charley.
The show has always made it clear that the knotty interactions of the Bordelons—notwithstanding their differing visions for the farm—form the primary lens through which they perceive each other, and the broader world. For the Bordelons, family is at once a security blanket and a liability, and a test of their bond to each other and their community. But Queen Sugar has gone a step further, wrestling with how one processes a family legacy so deeply mixed up with the violent history of race in the U.S.
Nowhere was this more clear than at the end of the previous season, which saw the Bordelons still reeling from an effort to sell its land that revealed a disturbing piece of information: The neighboring family trying to purchase it, the Landrys, once owned the Bordelons and later lynched some of their family members on the land they sharecropped. This discovery reenergized the Bordelons’ desire to build on their father’s hard work, and the closing shots of the finale had Ralph Angel staring pensively at his father’s will, and Charley carving the name of her recently purchased mill into the dirt.
The new season is poised to continue critiquing the long shadows of privilege and injustice. In the premiere’s most poignant moment, Micah, Charley’s son, is driving down the highway on his way to dinner in the brand new car his father bought him for his birthday, when he is stopped by the police. It’s moving to see this character, who has grappled in subtle ways with how his access to wealth affects how people see him, feel that privilege turned on its head. He’s no longer the privately educated son of an NBA player and a former executive; he is, instead, a black man in a car too expensive for his surroundings, being approached by a cop whose hand is already on his holster.
The scene—and the crushing one that follows at the police station—bears DuVernay’s stamp. Much like her other work (Selma and Netflix’s 13th), the director has consistently woven the historical and current failures of the criminal justice system into Queen Sugar’s plotlines, whether it’s Ralph Angel dealing with the stigma of being formerly incarcerated or Nova reporting on the overpolicing of black youth in the Ninth Ward of New Orleans. It’s also distressing that a few hours before viewers sat down to watch the season opener—one day after Juneteenth—they possibly also watched the recently released dashcam video of Philando Castile being pulled over and shot several times by the Minnesota police officer Jeronimo Yanez. The image of Micah quivering in his car is so affecting because it’s a too-familiar one for the audience, bloodier versions of which have been recorded on cell phones and bodycams and distributed via social media.
(Just as in its inaugural season, Queen Sugar again uses striking imagery to deepen its storytelling. As Melissa Harris Perry wrote for The Undefeated about the show last September, “The beauty of the Southern terrain is always juxtaposed against the violence of its history.” In a potent and loaded visual, Nova and Charley, out searching for a missing Micah, find his gleaming silver convertible abandoned and parked next to a roadside cemetery.)
Micah’s storyline continues in the second episode, with the Bordelons trying to gauge how he’s coping since being racially profiled. Micah skips school and, as he walks aimlessly around New Orleans to the soundtrack of Sampha’s “Plastic 100°C,” you get a sense of just how lost he feels, literally and figuratively—until he somehow wanders into his aunt’s fundraiser, where he breaks down just a little in Nova’s embrace.
The second episode also shows us a bit more about where the season may go, as it allows the characters to develop their relationships outside the family unit. Ralph Angel takes Darla, the mother of his son, on a “proper date,” as they try to strike the balance between co-parenting and rekindling romance. After a botched divorce mediation, Charley shows up unannounced at her former suitor Remy’s door, despite the fact that he had ended their relationship until she was legally freed of her marriage. Aunt Violet nervously waits for her estranged boyfriend Hollywood to return from an oil rig that was rumored to have had an explosion. Nova appears to be dealing with the dissolution of her relationship to Calvin, a married white cop, by throwing her energy into activism and spending time with a string of Calvin look-a-likes.
Within the Bordelon family, some fences are being mended, while others seem set to break down. Charley may be in for a rude awakening once Davis realizes she’s forged his name to get her investment paperwork approved. Ralph Angel and Charley’s disagreements about the farm will most likely intensify once he asks her for the letter he needs to secure a microloan of his own. And Nova appears to be the only one able to get through to Micah. Charley’s inability to deal with her increasing loss of control over her family might make this season’s emotional climaxes even more animated than the last. One thing, at least, is clear: At a time when black lives are often under the threat of actual and political violence, Queen Sugar treats its characters with the empathy and care that the real world doesn’t always provide them.
Don’t Miss
The Big Sick Is the Best Romantic Comedy in Years—David Sims delights in Kumail Nanjiani’s warm, big-hearted summer film.
Film
How Batman & Robin Changed the Superhero Movie for the Better—David Sims explains how the George Clooney-starring comic-book flop set Hollywood heroes on a new path.
The Film That’s Missing From the ‘Century’s Greatest’ Lists—Conor Friedersdorf praises Paolo Sorrentino’s 2013 movie The Great Beauty, which offers an unsurpassed meditation on a question that confronts all humans.
Face/Off Is 20 Years Old—Megan Garber remembers what might be one of the best and most absurd action movies of all time.
Transformers: The Last Knight Is More of the Same—Christopher Orr laments the loud and unpleasant fifth installment to the interminable series.
The Beguiled Is a Steamy but Restrained Thriller—David Sims reviews Sofia Coppola’s new Civil War-era film starring Nicole Kidman and Colin Farrell.
Did Hulk Hogan Neuter the First Amendment?—Sophie Gilbert dives into a new Netflix documentary that considers the dangerous ramifications of Bollea v. Gawker for the free press.
Television
GLOW Is a Total Delight—Sophie Gilbert believes the Netflix show about a short-lived ’80s wrestling league for women is smart, funny, and subversive.
Twin Peaks Is Finally Headed Somewhere—David Sims relishes the latest episode of David Lynch’s show, in which its overarching story comes into focus.
The Jaunty Horror of Orange Is the New Black—Sophie Gilbert argues that the Netflix show’s sense of humor has never felt so out of place.
Better Call Saul Finally, Tragically Ignites Change—Spencer Kornhaber recaps the dark ending to Season 3.
The Intriguing Chills of The Mist—Sophie Gilbert watches Spike’s new supernatural drama.
Apple Is a Step Closer to Making Its Own TV Shows—David Sims breaks down the tech giant’s attempt to move into a realm occupied by Netflix and Amazon.
Books
The Cartoonist Who Makes You Look Twice—Rowan Hisayo Buchanan considers Jillian Tamaki’s Boundless, which makes a profound case for the primacy of images in storytelling.
Music
The Underrated Humor of Radiohead’s OK Computer—Spencer Kornhaber unpacks the wit in the band’s masterpiece from 20 years ago.
Vince Staples, Enemy of Groupthink—Spencer Kornhaber listens to the young rapper’s exciting new album Big Fish Theory.
Sports
Will Years of Losing Make the Philadelphia 76ers Winners?—Robert O’Connell weighs in on the team’s prospects after this year’s NBA draft.
Somewhere in America last year, a woman took to YouTube to complain about a song that she’d heard on the radio while dropping her daughter off at school. Tears in her eyes and strain in her voice, the self-identified Christian mother of three recited the lyrics from Vince Staples’s “Norf Norf,”  pronouncing every profanity, sobbing at the Long Beach rapper’s mentions of sex and crime and running away from the cops. She was horrified. “I couldn’t even believe the words I was listening to,” she said into the camera. “As a mom, it infuriated me.”

Online media gleefully snarked on the video, writing about the woman’s “melt-down” as a piece of comedy. “That dang ol’ rap music is corrupting our children!” summarized XXL, while Funny or Die picked apart the logical inconsistencies and offensive bits of what she’d said. Her words were even  remixed with the “Norf Norf” beat, racking up tens of thousands of listens.
Kendrick Lamar's Complicated Political Score-Settling
But Staples himself had a radically sympathetic response. In interviews and on Twitter, he chided the folks who were making fun of the woman.
“It’s pathetic to attack someone for having an opinion or feeling some type of way, for wanting her children to not be exposed to something,” Staples told NPR. “‘Cause I’m 100 percent sure my mother would have loved for her children to not be exposed to gang life. The difference is it wasn’t on the radio—it was in our house, and it was outside, and it was at our schools, and it was at our churches, it was everywhere that we were.”
The episode was telling. The 23-year-old Staples originally grabbed acclaim with unflinching tales of growing up in Southern California gangland, and he has made the white consumption of black art a point of lyrical interest. But he has also emerged as a critic of rap itself, or more accurately, “the rap world”—the hype, the beefs, the tropes. It’s no surprise he offended the woman on YouTube, but it’s also no surprise he broke with groupthink and came to her defense.
Staples’s dazzling new album, Big Fish Theory, confirms that the rapper’s great muse is the tyranny of cultural bubbles, whether created by neighborhood, race, money, genre, or something else. The title suggests that his success so far has been confined to a small pond—one that his lyrics sharply describe as the music digs a new spot for him to swim in.
His breakout Summertime ’06 was built on glowering, rap-classicist beats, and last year’s excellent Prima Donna EP had an unsettling sound somewhere between drum-line and alt-rock. But Big Fish Theory is a front-to-back rave, inspired by strobe-lit warehouses and sci-fi. Young and fairly unknown producers like Zack Sekoff and Ray Brady crafted most of the album’s glitchy soundscapes; the outré electronic musician Sophie, whose cult-beloved solo work sounds like aerobic workout tapes for creatures with more than four limbs, shows up twice. Many of the songs might work at an EDM fest, but it never feels like they’re chasing trends. As Staples tweeted, he wanted to avoid simplistic four-on-the-floor beats and played-out “Steve Aoki airhorn drops.”

The musical overhaul might signal ambivalence from Staples about his genre, but dance music of this sort really isn’t new to rap. Echoes of Kanye West’s Yeezus abound on minimalist thumpers like “SAMO,” while the two-stepping opener “Crabs in a Bucket” recalls UK hip-hop. “Homage” settles into a rhythm resembling Southern bounce, and the slow-grooving closer “Rain Come Down” has the singer/rapper Ty Dolla $ign contributing to a bittersweet R&B vibe. But the glistening, BPMs-obsessed mode throughout is novel for Staples. Most surprisingly, his rapping often now seems buried, textural—the first priority is to move bodies. “Don’t think too much,” he says. “Just lose yourself in the music.”
That last line is double-edged: “The word ‘party’ and my music don’t go together,” he recently told Vulture. While the album might dabble in the hedonism associated with plenty of rappers before him, he repeatedly seems to roll his eyes at cliches. “Never blow it on a chain / rather blow my fucking brain,” he raps on “SAMO,” whose title—a play on “same old thing”—might be about the repetitiousness of commercial hip-hop. For “Yeah Right,” a concert-hall rallying tune built on melty machine noises, he scoffs at standard-issue boasts about cars, houses, and girls. It’s no wonder Kendrick Lamar, another Southern Californian rapper famous for asceticism, shows up with a verse.
But Staples’s complaints about the small pond of hip-hop are bracketed by wider discontent. On the sauntering single “Big Fish,” he tries to brag about his life now but keeps remembering the anxiety of his days in the streets: “Shoulda been dead broke, shoulda been chalked out / but it didn’t happen, now it’s time to get it cracking.” Racism is always in the backdrop, with “Crabs in the Bucket” suggesting it as the barrier that traps Staples and his peers in a brawl for meager spoils: “Battle with the white man day by day … They don’t ever wanna see the black man eat.” And for “Party People,” he gets the dance floor crackling but doesn’t let anyone forget what’s happening outside the club. The chorus: “How I’m supposed to have a good time when death and destructions all I see?”
Staples airs all of these feelings with verbal finesse, maintaining a conversational drawl even when pulling off noticeably precise patterns. There’s something infectious about the way he rounds the syllables at the start of “Big Fish” so that they all seem to rhyme (“late night ballin’ / so far from my past misfortune”). And the closer, “Rain Come Down,” has Staples taking on a pinched, jaded deadpan as he delivers a grab-bag of references slotting himself into a long history of black resilience: “I’m the blood on the leaves / I’m the nose in the Sphinx / Where I’m from we don’t go to police.” You have to listen closely for the big statements, as when he sneaks a concise, Kanye West-ian self-summary amid the frenzy of “Homage”: “I’m on a new level / I am too cultured and too ghetto.”
It all comes together most memorably on “Bagbak,” a maniacal display of Staples’s new electro sound, reliable rap talent, and uncensored outrage. Over high-energy synth claps and a woozy keyboard pattern, he delivers his verses as dizzying run-on sentences, with the subject matter telescoping out from sex to national politics. He says he’s not voting until the candidates get a lot less white—“We need Tamikas and Shaniquas in that Oval Office / Obama ain’t enough for me, we only getting started.” Then in the aggro final verse he tells the government, the one percent, and the president to all “suck a dick.” Just wait until the woman from YouTube finds this one, and better yet, wait for Staples’s reply.
In the third episode of GLOW, a new 10-part series debuting on Netflix Friday, a male producer and a male director brainstorm possible characters for their women’s wrestling circuit. As in the real-life Gorgeous Ladies of Wrestling—which featured characters named Palestina, Jailbait, and Big Bad Mama—the various identities rely heavily on stereotypes. Jenny (Ellen Wong) becomes Fortune Cookie. Tammé (Kia Stevens) is Welfare Queen. Arthie (Sunita Mani) is Beirut. “It’s not a judgment,” GLOW’s coked-up producer, Sebastian (Chris Lowell) explains. “It’s just what I and the entire world see with our eyes.”
GLOW, created by Liz Flahive and Carly Mensch and executive produced by Orange Is the New Black’s Jenji Kohan, arrives in a heady fog of hairspray and ’80s nostalgia, but it pulls no punches in its treatment of the entertainment industry. In the show’s very first scene, Ruth (Alison Brie), an actress, delivers a monologue in an audition and raves about the role, commenting on how few roles like this there are for women. “You’re reading the man’s part,” the casting agent replies. Which is how Ruth ends up in a gym with 50 or so other “unconventional” women, auditioning for a new kind of “family-friendly” entertainment. On the one hand, she can see how patently absurd it all is. On the other, it’s still the only job going where she can actually dig into a strong female character.
Orange Is the New Black Gambles Big
Ruth has more than a little of OITNB’s Piper to her—she’s pretentious, earnest, and painfully self-centered, and there’s a reveal in the first episode that might put viewers off entirely if Brie weren’t so endearing in the role. After one failed audition, she goes home, immerses herself in WWE, and practices wrestling personas at home wearing a makeshift cape and cut-off rubber gloves (“I’m Pre-Menstrual Syndrome!,” she bellows). But it’s an actual fight with her friend Debbie (Betty Gilpin) that persuades the director, Sam Sylvia (Marc Maron) to cast both of them—Debbie as Liberty Bell, an all-American superhero, and Ruth as her Russian nemesis. “Relax,” Sam tells Ruth. “The devil gets the best lines.”
Flahive and Mensch’s ensemble cast is terrific. Gayle Rankin plays Sheila the She-Wolf, a monosyllabic goth whose outfits Ruth tries to identify with by explaining that she once went to school dressed as Anne of Green Gables every day for a year. Sydelle Noel is Cherry, an out-of-work actress who becomes the girls’ primary trainer and caretaker. The British singer-songwriter Kate Nash plays Rhonda, a daffy and lovable type whose character, Britannica, is a Nobel-prize winning scientist in spandex. And Britney Young is Carmen, the neglected 25-year-old scion of a professional wrestling family. The show has fun with the fact that the characters are literally grappling with female stereotypes in the ring while proving how much more complex and interesting the real women are.
Maron, as the unkempt and past-his-prime Sylvia, is so charming that he steals virtually every scene he’s in. A frustrated former B-movie director based on Matt Cimber, Sylvia is a chain-smoking, drug-snorting, womanizing wreck who’s also surprisingly protective of the team he’s assembled. (“Don’t take that!” he snaps at “Beirut” when Sebastian offers her “terrorist” persona a gun to wield.) And Gilpin (Nurse Jackie) is stellar as Debbie, a bombshell former soap star dealing with a cheating husband and an infant son who bites her while he’s breastfeeding. Just like Ruth, she seems to find something in the ring that’s unexpectedly satisfying, even if it’s just a momentary chance to be a star-spangled superhero.
GLOW has plenty of ’80s accoutrements—some nostalgia-inducing (a synth-heavy soundtrack, leotards for every occasion, neon eyeshadow, Steve Guttenberg) and some not (a home pregnancy test that resembles an AP chemistry exam). Each episode runs around 30 minutes, which allows the show to both delve into individual stories and spin a larger arc, with few of the pacing issues of Netflix’s longer shows. Mostly, though, it’s just a blast to watch women having so much fun. GLOW fully owns its campiness and its showy aesthetics, but it’s smart and subversive underneath the glitter.
With the first pick in Thursday night’s NBA draft, the Philadelphia 76ers took Markelle Fultz, the sure-thing guard from the University of Washington. The high selection continued a recent league tradition. Last year, too, the Sixers picked first; the two years before that, they picked third. This is by design. Philadelphia’s strategy, installed by the former analytically minded general manager Sam Hinkie, has involved fielding overmatched squads that lose at record or near-record rates and give the team the best chance to attain high picks in the league’s draft lottery. Those picks, the thinking goes, offer chances to get superstars, and superstars are what champions need. Philadelphia fans nicknamed the plan “The Process.” Elsewhere it is known, more pejoratively, as tanking.
The arrival of Fultz—whom the Sixers were able to draft after trading Boston, the initial holders of the first spot, the number-three selection and a future first-round pick—is largely thought to signal the end of the team’s talent-accumulation era and the beginning of an attempt to produce a competitive lineup. Fultz joins what has slowly become a promising, if fragile, roster. Ben Simmons, last June’s top pick who missed his entire rookie season with a foot injury, stands six feet 10 inches tall and flashed such a gift for passing in his lone year at Louisiana State University that Philadelphia is considering making him an abnormally large point guard. The seven-foot center Joel Embiid, the Sixers’ top pick from two years prior, has played only 31 games in his career to this point while dealing with leg injuries, but those games have been remarkable: deft footwork, effortless scoring, obliterating defense. Dario Saric, a Croatian drafted in 2014 who arrived stateside last season, has a long reach and an understanding of angle and tempo. It is the kind of group that basketball obsessives can spend hours thinking about, a collage of pure potential.
Why Top NBA Draft Picks So Often Disappoint
Philadelphians rightly look forward to the next step; the Sixers have already broken their franchise record for season tickets sold. For the NBA as a whole, though, even the best-case scenario—the team gelling into an upstart and then a true contender—comes with cause for concern. If the Sixers climb the league ranks, they will lend credence to the idea of extended non-competitiveness as a viable team-building option. The damage this could do to the nightly product of a multi-billion-dollar enterprise founded on competition is apparent. On a 2015 episode of a FiveThirtyEight podcast, Adam Silver, the NBA’s commissioner, addressed Hinkie’s methodology with rare bluntness. “Am I a fan of that strategy?” he asked. “Put it this way: no.”
The most effective roadblock against the widespread adoption of “The Process” may be something that Hinkie was often said to have overlooked: the human, emotional element of sports. When some of his selections—or “assets,” as he often called them—failed to live up to their pre-draft hype, the losing environment in Philadelphia was popularly given as a reason why. What young player could learn to be a professional surrounded by castoffs?
Even team ownership, supportive for many lean years, eventually grew tired of, or embarrassed by, the constant defeats. When Jerry Colangelo, a more traditional basketball executive, was hired to restore a modicum of professionalism after the team lost its first 18 games to start the 2015-16 season, he said the Sixers were “stretching for credibility.” By season’s end, Hinkie and the team had parted ways, with Colangelo replacing him fully. Hinkie’s 13-page resignation letter fittingly considered the sport through a cold, market-strategic lens. “Wins are a zerogrowth industry,” he wrote, “and the only way up is to steal share from your competitors ... You will have to be contrarian.”
Although many Philadelphia fans still vocally support Hinkie, chanting “Trust the Process!” at games and draft parties, the managerial shift seems to have come at an opportune time. Hinkie weathered controversy and pursued a project that did, after all, leave the Sixers with a stash of enviable talent. Colangelo, along with head coach Brett Brown, now gets to do the less mathematical work of shaping that talent into a cohesive unit. Science has given way to art.
If the Sixers start to make good on their potential, then nonpartisan basketball fans will have a hard time rooting against them, no matter how they got put together. They are, at this moment, as much of a personification of hope as any team in sports. They are a kind of daydream, stitched together from separate YouTube reels. You can picture the interplay to come: Fultz driving the lane, spinning past a defender, and flipping a blind pass to Simmons for a dunk; Embiid shimmying, stretching, and dropping in a jump hook.
For anyone interested in the long-term health of the NBA, though, this hope will be weighed against a second one: namely, that “The Process” doesn’t work out so well that it inspires imitators. The wishes of Silver, one suspects, align with those of someone who catches the Thursday night games on TNT after work. A good matchup is much more fun to watch than a long con, no matter how handsomely the latter ends up paying off.