
At the 2014 Edinburgh fringe, the trailblazing Every Brilliant Thing – written by Duncan Macmillan and performed by Jonny Donahoe – talked to us about depression in a refreshingly warm, open and honest way. A year later, Bryony Kimmings and Tim Grayburn’s Fake It ’Til You Make It tackled the taboo subject of male depression and was one of a number of fringe shows exploring mental distress. This year there are so many that a new award has been introduced for shows about mental illness. Talking about it, particularly depression, is the new coming out. As Viki Browne says at the end of her show Help!: “Don’t keep it a secret.”
For a long time Browne had been wearing a painted smile – but the cracks were beginning to show. In January 2012, on Wimbledon Common, she shattered. Marking this moment the stage explodes in a firework of tin foil strips. Her show Help! is part of the process of putting herself back together. She can’t do it alone. Browne has to ask the audience to help pick up the pieces and stick her together. We do so with copious amounts of sticky tape. The joins show like scars, but it’s a start.
If Browne’s endearingly comic piece cleverly uses metaphor to point up the importance of asking for help, then The Letter Room’s show No Miracles Here stretches metaphor to breaking point in a piece of gig theatre that was inspired by the dance marathons that occurred during the Great Depression. This likable company describe it as “a well-researched fabricated fable,” about Ray who joins the dance marathon, a place where as long as you can keep moving and your knees don’t touch the ground you have a chance of winning.
“This is about endurance, not about technique,” one of the dancers tells Ray. The songs break the narrative rather than pushing it along and there is never quite a sense that the cast are dancing as if their lives depended on it. However, it neatly makes the point that with depression everyone’s experience of the dance is different and some will leave before the music stops.
Music is also integral to Silent Uproar’s A Super Happy Story (About Feeling Super Sad) which is undoubtedly the most uplifting show about depression since Every Brilliant Thing. Sally is certain she is going to change the world but on her 16th birthday she senses a shadow – she flunks out of her A-levels and becomes a charity fundraiser or “chugger” (“the most depressing job in the world”). Eventually she gets help, sees a doctor and joins a support group. She gets better, and then the depression comes back again. This is a very slickly put together show, written by Jon Brittain and with music by Frisky and Mannish’s Matthew Floyd. It is deceptive: like Sally, it looks all shiny on the surface but underneath there’s a lot going on, some of it very dark.
At her most desperate Sally pushes away everyone who loves her and says hateful, hurtful things – not unlike Alice in Milly Thomas’s Dust. We first see her looking at her own body in the morgue after successfully killing herself. Superbly performed by Thomas herself, this is a brave, uncompromising monologue. This is depression in all its ugliness, as Alice – caught somewhere between life and death – watches parents, brother and friends respond to her suicide in the days after her death, and reflects back on how she ended up on the slab. It’s not a pretty show, some may think it’s an insensitive one, but it’s blisteringly honest about the way depression deforms and distorts a person and their way of looking at the world.
In Good Grief, Jack Rooke uses his personal experience of grief to make a show in which comedy, spoken word and theatre collide. His follow-up performance Jack Rooke: Happy Hour, deploys similar techniques to craft a highly entertaining, yet delicate and perceptive piece inspired by the suicide of two friends. With the stage set up as if we are in a bar, Rooke proves a genial host as he describes the “lost boys”, questions what we mean by success for a generation who play and work hard but lack opportunity, and comments on representations of suicide in the media. It’s done with the lightest of touches as it crosses the comedy, spoken word and theatre boundaries and manages to reference Harry Potter and makes some waspish jokes about students.
These shows are just the tip of the iceberg of offerings on the fringe. Most are made by those under 30, many draw on personal experience and all remind us that mental health issues are too often treated as a dirty little secret. These artists are shouting it loud, and without shame: many young people are in crisis. Will we listen to their cries for help?
In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123.In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14.
Welcome to this week’s blog, and our roundup of your comments and photos from last week.
It’s been a week for discovering classic books. Some of them lost, some of them just, somehow, missed - as VelmaNebraska explains:
Feeling like I stumbled to the table way after all the other guests (just before pudding was served), this week I finished reading David Mitchell’s The Cloud Atlas. Ay Caramba, that man can write - or perhaps I mean plot. Although the individual layers were more or less satisfying on their own (my favourite sections featured Luisa Rey, but then I’m partial to a bit of go-girl-70s-paranoid-thriller), it was the way they fit together like a matryoshka doll that kept me delighted.
A “mesmerising tale of a young man learning to fly a Tiger Moth as giraffes ran wild below,” has recently impressed laidbackviews. It had unexpected provenance: the book was called Going Solo “and the young man was Roald Dahl”.
What a stunning piece of short autobiography that is. Just 200 pages or so, from those early days in East Africa, to war breaking out, joining up and learning to fly. Onwards to Greece, a handful of Hurricanes against what seemed to be entire Luftwaffe, and a pilot with only a few hours in a Tiger Moth in his log book. Astonishing stuff.
Then came Palestine, a landing strip in an olive grove and orphan refugee children, thoughts of a new state. The homecoming’s not bad either, mother and sisters having walked out of ruins and bought a wee pad in the country, as our hero didn’t then know.
Roald Dahl; there’s much more to him than you might think. Loved it.
Those who have read JG Farrell will understand why R042 isn’t at all surprised by the quality of his books - but this warm appreciation is still worth enjoying:
I’m probably around a third of the way through The Singapore Grip and it’s honestly hard to say how I could possibly rate Farrell’s three Empire novels in any kind of order. They’re all incredible.
The Singapore Grip is probably the funniest of the three, because its cast are almost entirely appalling people who you really should and do hate - which makes their steady, oblivious drift towards inevitable tragedy all the, if not sweeter, more acceptable. The Siege of Krishnapur played with your moral compass, I feel, putting a number of innocents guilty by association in peril brought about by their imperialist relatives. Less so in Singapore, where one feels the colonial attitudes are much more universally held and deeply ingrained.
More obscure, but also important is Emanuel Litvinoff’s Journey Through a Small Planet, as LeoToadstool explains:
[It is a] memoir of growing up in the East End of London when it was a still very much a Jewish ghetto, when Yiddish was the language of the streets whose denizens spoke of Odessa and Warsaw “as if they were neighbouring suburbs.” Once a well-read novelist and poet, Litvinoff, who died at the age of 96 in 2008, is almost completely unheard of today. My Penguin reissue of Journey Through a Small Planet seeks to remedy that, by appending the original text (published in the early 70s) with notes and other supplementary material – the most substantial of which is a sumptuous introduction by Litvinoff’s friend Patrick Wright, who recounts a tour they took of the East End in the 90s: despite the changes in architecture and demographics, Litvinoff retains an intimate knowledge of the streets that shaped him.
Finally, TotaalWolf recommends The Adversary by Emmanuel Carrère, which has recently been republished:
Carrère unravels the true life story behind a gruesome murder with immense skill and adds some metafictional elements (which work in this instance) to writing as he wrestles with how to present the protagonists and frame the frankly bizarre back story of the murderer. You can understand why Carrère is so highly regarded - he seems to be a master of using factual happenings to explore themes and issues more suited typically suited to fiction.
Fascinating.
If you would like to share a photo of the book you are reading, or film your own book review, please do. Click the blue button on this page to share your video or image. I’ll include some of your posts in next week’s blog.
If you’re on Instagram and a book lover, chances are you’re already sharing beautiful pictures of books you are reading: “shelfies” or all kinds of still lifes with books as protagonists. Now, you can share your reads with us on the mobile photography platform – simply tag your pictures there with #GuardianBooks, and we’ll include a selection here. Happy reading!
Over the weekend, we were informed that Royal Holloway, University of London, has “banned” the novel Fanny Hill out of a supposed fear of causing offence to students. Royal Holloway was originally a ladies’ institution – no connection with the women’s prison. The founder was “Doctor” Holloway, a pharmacist who made a fortune out of pills advertising “an infallible cure for female complaints”.
Fanny Hill has an interesting history. John Cleland, a rakehell, wrote the novel in debtors’ prison in 1748. Denied his doxies, his imagination went into overdrive. But he boasted to James Boswell, himself no mean pornographer (see his London Journal), that he could write a sexually exciting story of “a woman of pleasure” without using a single “foul” word.
“Fanny Hill” is an anglicisation of the Latin mons veneris, mound of Venus. Work it out. And forget the foul words. Cleland’s serious motive was to contradict the joyless moralism of Hogarth’s A Harlot’s Progress. Fanny is a sex worker who, like Belle de Jour, enjoys her work and does very well out of it, thank you very much Mr Hogarth.
After the book was published, Cleland was prosecuted for “corrupting the king’s subjects”. He protested he wished the work “buried and forgot”. It was duly buried and went on to become a centuries-long underground bestseller, until the great Lady Chat liberation of 1960.
I well remember my first encounter with Fanny (note the capital letter) some years earlier. It was a wretched copy printed in Tangier. Having done the sixth-form rounds, the thumbed Fanny Hill was passed on to me by a pale-faced friend.
Many will have read the “Fanny is banned” story and thought: “Those millennial nervous nellies, whatever next?” My guess is that it is silly-season tosh. The book will be referred to, as necessary and instructive, but is not required reading. The professor who is alleged to have done the banning is Judith Hawley. I know her personally. She is the world’s leading authority on Tristram Shandy, a novel thought so improper even Cleland called its author, Laurence Sterne, a pornographer.
If Fanny Hill is now on Holloway’s index librorum prohibitorum, which I doubt, all you can say is many have tried to ban the book, but no one has ever succeeded.
Spoiler alert: this blog is for Twin Peaks viewers who have seen episode 14 of The Return, showing on Showtime on the US and Sky Atlantic in the UK. Do not read on unless you have watched.
It was always too much to dream that David Bowie had reprised his role as the FBI’s Phillip Jeffries before his death – and that all involved had managed to keep a lid on it. Instead, Twin Peaks acknowledged his absence in the most tasteful way possible, using archive footage from Fire Walk With Me in Gordon’s dream sequence. It was bittersweet, making us miss Bowie all the more, but of course it offered no answers. This was the week the show indulged the reality of its narratives being all over the place more than ever.
Stories, dreams, tall tales, memories and the misremembered … what, Lynch and Frost ask amid this collection of unreliable narrators, is really the difference? So Lynch toys with us by having Director Gordon (himself) resort to solving cases via his dreams about screen siren Monica Bellucci (herself). It’s becoming less and less clear who can be taken at their word – but while you could hardly accuse part 14 of clarity, it’s no slouch when it comes to revelations.
Most significant is the discovery that Diane and Jayne-E are half-sisters, with little love lost. Laura Dern’s FBI veteran has been painted so on-the-nose disreputable, all cigarettes and builder’s mouth, that she was always going to end up one of the most virtuous individuals in this whole business, now serving as a direct counterpoint to Naomi Watts’ manipulative Stepford Wife.
Here’s the thing. In one sense, there’s a hell of a lot going on this week. People are starting to cotton on to the reality of two Coopers, secrets of Blue Rose are coming to the surface, the Giant is named as the Fireman, the vortex returns and Sarah Palmer bites a man’s face off.
But at the same time, it’s those on the fringes who dominate. Andy from the sheriff’s office had hardly been one of life’s winners, yet here he is, chosen by the Fireman for a trip to his realm and gifted a recap of the entire Twin Peaks mythology before emerging back in the forest somehow wiser, somehow instinctively knowing how to protect the eyeless lady.
And yet … if Andy was not a character you would have predicted to be pivotal, spending so long with British Freddie telling the tall tale of the green glove to James Hurley was even more unlikely. Until you realise, whatever the Fireman’s motives, he’s all about the little guy. In a world so corrupted, this controlling hand seems preoccupied with the innocent. We’re all stories in the end. And some people’s are bigger than they realise.
Speaking of those on the periphery, we close once again at the Roadhouse with more people we don’t know talking about other people we don’t know. This last interaction, between Tina’s daughter and David Lynch’s actual wife Emily Stofle, is notable not least because it’s the only allusion to whatever’s going on with Audrey and whatever happened to Billy – apparently scaling a six-foot fence to get away from somebody. Bringing back a character that iconic then just forgetting her would be more cause for criticism for a show with less characters to juggle. We’ve all now surely given up thinking they’ll ever tie this up in four hours. But perhaps that’s the point. Twin Peaks should have tied up the moment Laura Palmer’s murder was solved, and yet here these people still are, in their different ways still governed by that terrible event. Because life doesn’t tie up either. In that sense, Twin Peaks is possibly the most true-to-life show on television.
• Gordon Cole moment of the week? The hearing aid, obviously the hearing aid.
• Talking of the small moments that make this show sing – the Las Vegas FBI chief losing it with his clueless colleague was basically everything.
• How figurative are we supposed to be treating Sarah’s retractable head? Or the vortex, for that matter?
• This week’s musical guest at the Roadhouse comes in the form of Illinois country songbird Lissie, with Wild West.
In a bizarre miscalculation, the historical novelist Philippa Gregory took a sideswipe at the authors of genre novels in an interview with the New York Times yesterday. “Choosing to write a genre novel is like fencing the universe because you are afraid of space,” said Gregory, loftily. “Why does anyone write lazy, sloppy genre novels? The typing alone is so exhausting — surely if you’re going to undertake 150,000 words, you might as well have something interesting to say?”
Quite apart from the fact that every piece of writing falls into one genre or another, the comment is bizarre first because of who Gregory is. The author of The Other Boleyn Girl, The Taming of the Queen, and most recently The Last Tudor, Gregory writes historical fiction – and is indisputably a genre novelist herself. You know what you’re going to get when you pick up a Philippa Gregory novel – and I write that as someone who has read a fair few of them.
It becomes even more bizarre when, in the same interview, Gregory goes on to name her favourite fictional hero as a Georgette Heyer gent: Vidal, in Devil’s Cub. Not that he isn’t a great choice – I cannot think of many more enduring pleasures than curling up with a Heyer novel – but Heyer is the undisputed queen of the Regency romance, and even said herself: “I ought to be shot for writing such nonsense, but it’s unquestionably good escapist literature.” So Gregory clearly enjoys reading “lazy, sloppy” genre writing herself.
It’s also a miscalculation because I’d say the readers of her books include a vast swath of romance readers. Romantic relationships between the kings and queens of yore are generally at the heart of Gregory’s novels.
Many of these readers aren’t delighted at being written off by her. “This casual dismissal hurts. How do you think your romance reading fans would feel about this?” tweeted California romance bookstore The Ripped Bodice (a place I long to visit). Author Kristan Higgins also went on the attack: “I’ve kind of had it with tawdry, inaccurate historical retellings about Tudors myself”; while Joanne Harris tweeted that “choosing to write a genre novel is like cooking a regional dish. It doesn’t mean you hate the rest of the world... Nor are the basic ingredients limited to one style of cooking.”
It’s common enough for authors to diss genre – look at Isabel Allende throwing shade at crime writers (“I cannot write that kind of book. It’s too gruesome, too violent, too dark; there’s no redemption there”), Curtis Sittenfeld winding up romance authors (“Most romances are badly written...”), and Kazuo Ishiguro fanning flames of righteous anger from fantasy fans (“Will they understand what I’m trying to do, or will they be prejudiced against the surface elements? Are they going to say this is fantasy?”).
But Gregory flings her insults wider than most, managing to write off erotica, crime and romance in one go: “Lord, Lord, tell me! Why does anyone write pornography? If you have the good fortune to find a motif that floats your boat, why would you give it away? Why would you risk it losing its potency? Isn’t good sex so much better than publishing?” she says. “Why do people write crime novels with blindingly obvious murderers? Why do they write love stories with idiotic heroes? … Writing should be both individual and universal.”
At the end of it all, readers shouldn’t be made to feel ashamed about their choices. As author Jaci Burton tweeted, eminently wisely: “You know what’s wonderful about genre fiction? Something for everyone to love. Also, never yuck on someone else’s yum.”
The first of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s collaborations took Broadway by storm back in 1943. Over 70 years later its popularity continues undiminished, not least at the Proms where, on Friday, it received not one but two complete performances – matinee and evening.
Proms stagings of such things – recent years have seen My Fair Lady and Kiss Me, Kate on the Albert Hall platform – have become not just more frequent but altogether better resourced. The venue is a tricky one in which to stage almost anything, and Rachel Kavanaugh’s production – with its all-dancing as well as all-singing farmers, cowboys and pioneer womenfolk, enthusiastically high-kicking to Alistair David’s vital choreography – took several steps forward in this respect; though the amplification required in a venue of this size inevitably meant that dialogue tended to go mushy.
None of these projects would have happened without the unstinting commitment of conductor John Wilson, here in his prime element in music to which he brings total devotion. He makes no apologies for performing “every last quaver” of the score – even if the result gave us a first half of Wagnerian proportions, with a couple of numbers most Broadway producers would surely insist on cutting.
With this particular cast, though, one scarcely minded. Exemplifying all-American wholesomeness was the healthy baritone of Nathaniel Hackmann’s burly Curly, effortlessly matched by the apple-pie fragrance of Scarlett Strallen’s lyrical Laurey. Robert Fairchild’s half-tetchy, half-amiable Will Parker eventually paired off with Lizzy Connolly’s Ado Annie – twangy vowels and all – overriding less than whole-hearted competition from Marcus Brigstocke, who worked hard at the part of the preposterous Persian peddler, Ali Hakim. Belinda Lang presided benignly as the daffy but pragmatic Aunt Eller.
Instilling darkness at the centre of the piece is the sleazy psychopath Jud Fry, whose mesmeric realisation by David Seadon-Young gave the stalking outsider a measure of three-dimensionality that added considerable stature to whole enterprise. The way the community came together to absolve itself of any legal responsibilities following his violent death was aptly troubling.
But ultimately the evening belonged to the dapper Wilson and his hand-picked, nigh-on 40-piece orchestra, whose impeccably stylish accounts of Robert Russell Bennett’s original orchestrations would have made this performance unmissable all by themselves.
Like Batman, Noel Edmonds functions better as an idea than a person. Take him solely on his actions – like opening a theme park based on a faddy gimmick, attempting to literally purchase the BBC, and calling internet radio stations that only play disembodied laughter “one of the most exciting business tools of all time” – and he comes across as an emperor of folly; the Elon Musk of nonsense.
Of course, this is substantially diluted by the things he’s said as an actual human man, like his spectacularly offensive views on cancer. As a man, Edmonds is worse than awful. But as an idea – as a pure, inhuman concept – he soars.
The new daytime Channel 4 gameshow Cheap Cheap Cheap represents the idea of Noel Edmonds pushed all the way to its logical conclusion. It describes itself as “a gameshow that thinks it’s a sitcom”. And this is going to take some explaining, so sit tight.
In Cheap Cheap Cheap, Edmonds plays the owner of a dilapidated general store. Sometimes the shop’s manager wobbles into view to drop a leaden one-liner. Sometimes the tenant of the upstairs flat pops down to blurt something in a mangled fake-European accent – she calls Edmonds her “rent boy” very early on – or a shop assistant will take a selfie, or a deliveryman will sort of wander around a bit.
This is the set of the gameshow. There is no studio audience, and Edmonds doesn’t say hello or goodbye. It’s like this collection of weirdos have been trapped in this empty and possibly extra-dimensional shop for all eternity. It’s like Edmonds, having grown terrified by the horrors of the real world, has built his very own Red Room for sanctuary. Watching Cheap Cheap Cheap is like watching a weird piece of existential Lithuanian amateur community theatre. It’s like watching QVC, if QVC was beamed in from an irradiated wasteland four billion years in the future.
And make no mistake, Noel Edmonds loves it. He loves presiding over this haunted chaparral of tat. He loves it so much that he somehow manages to host the entire thing mid-chortle.
There is an actual gameshow, of sorts, hidden within this microbudgeted catastrophe. Edmonds presents two contestants – in episode one, some banterific policemen who were found sprawled across the shop floor like a couple of unsuccessful parachutists – with three supermarket items, and they have to guess the cheapest. Which is the cheapest tin of beans? Which is the cheapest fabric softener? Which is the cheapest candle? That’s it. It’s a dented The Price Is Right. It’s The Price Is Oh God I’m Having Another Cluster Migraine. It’s The Price Is No.
This, you’ll come to realise, is why Cheap Cheap Cheap needs to pad itself out so desperately. Not even the roaming characters can fill all the chasms of empty space created by this paper-thin premise. This is why, during the first episode, Edmonds spends a significant amount of time addressing some furniture. “Hello, furniture,” he goes. The furniture does not reply.
Cheap Cheap Cheap is simultaneously the strangest and longest-feeling daytime quiz I have ever seen. Each episode is one hour long, but that hour feels like a month. It’s the worst idea in the world, stretched out for all eternity. I’m still not entirely convinced that it wasn’t commissioned and produced in return for some sort of complicated tax rebate. And yet, nevertheless, people will be obsessed with it.
Not normal people, obviously. But students will dissect this to within an inch of its life. There’ll be screengrabs and recaps and zoinks-a-lummy watchalong tweets. Because, as mangled as it is, it’s highly unusual for a television channel to embrace overt weirdness on such a scale. In a daytime landscape full of game shows breaking their backs to look complicated and portentous, this is unabashed silliness. It can’t help but stand out.
Make no mistake, people will be talking about Cheap Cheap Cheap for generations. Even if, as I suspect, it’s only because they’re trying to piece together what it actually was, like survivors of some terrible collective fever dream. Still counts, though.
The Thames garden bridge plan has finally been scrapped after £37m of public money was spent on a project the London mayor said had no realistic chance of being completed.
The Garden Bridge Trust said it could no longer proceed without the support of Sadiq Khan, who responded by saying Londoners should be “very angry” that so much cash had gone towards a scheme backed by his Tory predecessor, Boris Johnson.
“It’s my duty to ensure taxpayers’ money is spent responsibly,” Khan said. “I have been clear since before I became mayor that no more London taxpayers’ money should be spent on this project, and when I took office I gave the Garden Bridge Trust time to try to address the multiple serious issues with it.”
Johnson hit back and said it was “so sad” that Khan had “killed” what he said could have been a “beautiful project”. “The only crumb of comfort is that good plans have now been developed and can be readily revived,” he added.
Proponents argued that it would be a big tourist asset and useful pedestrian link, while critics said it was in a crowded section of London already well served by bridges. They also questioned why taxpayers’ money should be spent on a link that would be privately run, could set its own rules, and would close at night and for private events.
Lord Davies, the chair of the trust, wrote to Khan outlining the reasons why the trust had taken the decision. He said it was “with great regret that trustees have concluded that without mayoral support, the project cannot be delivered”.
“We had made great progress obtaining planning permission, satisfying most of our planning conditions and we had raised £70m of private money towards the project,” he said.
“[The bridge] would have been a unique place, a beautiful new green space in the heart of London, free to use and open to all, showcasing the best of British talent and innovation. It is all the more disappointing because the trust was set up at the request of TfL [Transport for London], the organisation headed up by the mayor, to deliver the project.”
The bridge, designed by Thomas Heatherwick, would have extended from Temple on the north side of the Thames to the South Bank and featured 270 trees and thousands of plants. The proposal was originally devised by the actor Joanna Lumley and won support from Johnson and the then chancellor George Osborne, who committed £60m of public money to the scheme.
The rest was intended to be raised from corporate donations, but fierce local opposition and fruitless talks with the housing trust occupying the south side of the project delayed the start of construction, and costs rose. In April, Khan wrote to Davies announcing that he would not provide the financial guarantees needed for construction to begin.
Khan’s withdrawal came after he commissioned the Labour MP and former chair of the public accounts committee Margaret Hodge to investigate whether the bridge still represented value for public money.
Hodge’s report, published in April, recommended that the plan be scrapped. She pointed to multiple failings and argued that the business case for the bridge was “incredibly weak” and based on unconvincing evidence, and said it had been given special treatment under the support of Johnson as mayor.
Her report concluded that the project was inspired more by politics than value for money. “What started life as a project costing an estimated £60m is likely to end up costing more than £200m,” Hodge wrote.
Reliant on corporate donations, the Garden Bridge Trust secured £69m in private pledges, leaving a gap of at least £70m, with no new pledges obtained since August 2016.
Lumley said in April that Khan’s decision to remove financial backing was “absolutely shattering, devastating”, adding that the project had become politicised.
Kate Hoey, the MP for Vauxhall, and the councillors Jennie Mosley and Kevin Craig, who campaigned with the local community against the bridge, said they would be seeking a full public inquiry and “accountability for the garden bridge trustees in respect of lost taxpayers’ money”.
The London assembly member Tom Copley said: “It is a scandal that the cheerleaders for the bridge were allowed to waste so much public money by [Khan’s] predecessor. Boris Johnson drove forward this vanity project during his mayoralty, and the lion’s share of the blame for this whole debacle must fall at his feet.”
Heatherwick said: “London needs new bridges and unexpected new public places. The garden bridge has not found its right moment, but I hope one day it will and that London continues to be open to ideas that make life here better.”
More than 40 of Elvis Presley’s trademark jumpsuits are to go on display for the first time in the UK for an exhibition focusing on his later, touring years.
The three-month show at London’s O2 will tell the story of Elvis between 1969 and 1977 – his comeback years when he toured the US almost non-stop. They were also years in which he struggled with depression, obesity and an addiction to prescription drugs.
His ex-wife, Priscilla Presley, acknowledged they were, at times, difficult years, but told the Guardian: “We all have demons. The press likes to just focus on things like that but we all have our demons, we all have our ups and downs and unfortunately for the people who are in the limelight, it is magnified so many times more.”
The Presleys separated in 1972 and divorced the following year. They remained close and were photographed leaving the Los Angeles courthouse where their divorce was finalised, smiling and arm in arm.
Presley said that image was significant. “I wish people could work it out more,” she said. “Just because you separate or divorce doesn’t mean you’re not still in love: it’s just people move on, life changes, people grow up.”
Elvis performed more than 1,100 concerts in his later years, which would put a strain on any relationship. “Touring is not easy for any couple,” Presley said. After the separation they became even closer than before, she said. “We were there for each other, we cared for each other, we remained close, close friends. Elvis would talk to me about things which were going on his life.”
The O2 show will include more than 40 of the jumpsuits Elvis wore on stage, most of which have never been on display at Graceland, let alone the UK.
It will include three phoenix jumpsuits he wore on tours in 1974-75, which the designer had originally intended as zebras. “Elvis looked at the design upside-down and thought it was a bird,” said Graceland’s director of archives, Angie Marchese. So a stripy bird it became.
Given Elvis wore the jumpsuits for about six months at a time, the show will also feature some of the many dry cleaning and repair bills. There will be guitars, microphones, posters and tour trunks including one still filled with the silk scarves that he used to throw out to audiences.
Marchese said the aim of the show was for visitors to feel as if they were on tour with Elvis. One exhibit will be a recreation of the inside of the plane he used to fly from city to city.
The new show, announced during “Elvis Week” – he died aged 42 on 16 August 1977 – is the follow-up to an Elvis show staged at the O2 in 2014-15 that attracted more than 200,000 visitors.
Priscilla Presley said she was surprised by how popular the first exhibition had been. “We were all absolutely taken aback by the success of it, which is why we are doing it again … it’s by popular demand. People came back not just once or twice but sometimes three, four times.”
Marchese said the first show had exceeded expectations. “The UK loves Elvis and we know it. Elvis was never able to tour the UK so to bring this story to the UK and make it feel like Elvis is there, performing … that’s the excitement of it all.”
• Elvis on Tour opens at the O2 in London on 3 November
The 2017 Not the Booker shortlist is now complete, with our three judges choosing Anything Is Possible by Elizabeth Strout as the wildcard entry.
Tracey Hope, Dana LeMarr and Sara Richards, the judges from the final round of last year’s competition, have spent the past few weeks reading and discussing the novels on our very long list and emailed me on Friday to let me know their decision.
Sara explained that the book, “lets some light into darkness and admits the possibility of hope. Elizabeth Strout is an extraordinary writer and in this novel she explores the secrets and half-truths that families tell themselves in order to function, and what happens when those deceits disappear.”
Dana said: “This book touches and leaves bare the human heart in each of us. We see darkness and light, fear and hope, tragedy and joy, kindness and love, and above all else the underlying sameness of our humanity which connects us all ... I’m a better person for having read this book. A book that can do that sort of alchemy deserves to be on the Not the Booker shortlist.”
Tracey, meanwhile, told me that she didn’t want to say much about the book “because I don’t want to reveal too much,” but also that it “deserves to be on the shortlist. It offers hope in these strange, dark times.”
At this stage, I’m pleased to say that I know very little about this novel – and so can’t comment on this need for circumspection. I’m looking forward to unravelling the mystery. But I can tell you that when Elizabeth Day reviewed it here on The Guardian she was very clear that it is a “novel told in a series of interconnected stories” (so it just qualifies for the prize) and that it is “wise” and “stunning”. I’m looking forward to learning more.
Mind you, I’m going to have to wait for a few weeks: Strout comes sixth on our alphabetically arranged shortlist, so I’ll be reading it some time in late September. For reference, the complete list of books going forward into the next round of the Not the Booker prize now looks like this:
Not Thomas by Sara Gethin (Honno Press)Dark Chapter by Winnie M Li (Legend Press)The Ludlow Ladies’ Society by Ann O’Loughlin (Black and White Publishing)The Threat Level Remains Severe by Rowena Macdonald (Aardvark Bureau)Man With a Seagull on His Head by Harriet Paige (Bluemoose Books)Anything Is Possible by Elizabeth Strout (Viking)
I’ll be reporting in on Not Thomas early next week – and reading approximately one book a week. I hope you’ll join me. Not least because, we are once again on the hunt for judges. If you’re intrigued, pleased or indeed outraged by the choice of Elizabeth Strout’s novel, this is your chance to influence next year’s competition. More immediately, you will also play a vital role in helping us get a good outcome this year.
The judging process is one of the most important – and enjoyable – aspects of Not the Booker. Our panels always form an interesting counterweight to the public vote, help ensure we have lively discussions throughout the shortlist discussions that aren’t dominated by my own thoughts. Our judges have often overruled me in the past – and the competition has been much better as a result.
We’ve had some fine judges over the past four years who have added real insight and wisdom to the process of choosing a winner. You can see for yourself how good their contributions have been by clicking through to these videos from 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016.
All you need to do if you do want to become a judge is follow the relevant section from our hope-fixing Terms and Conditions:
Three readers will be selected by the Guardian to form a panel of judges from those readers who have made substantial contributions to the discussion of the shortlisted books. The process by which these readers are chosen is left studiously vague and is at the Guardian’s discretion. These judges undertake to read at least three of the six-book shortlist before the final judging meeting.
So please join in with reading the shortlist, by commenting and reviewing as much as you can – and if you enjoy the process, please throw your name into the ring when I ask for volunteers in October.
October! It feels so far away now. But it will be on us sooner than you think. It’s time to get reading.
Almost a decade after it finished, The Wire still stands as the pinnacle of the boxset era: Baltimore shaken down block by block, institution by institution, in a peerless 60-episode stickup of the American Dream. Among its embarrassment of virtues was its nose for character. Not just the feat of conceiving a carefully individuated gallery of cops and robbers, casting them perfectly and watching each one pick their appointed path through the city’s tatty rowhouses and gleaming bureaus. But also knowing when the hour came to rein them in. From Stringer Bell’s fatal overreaching into legitimate business to Ziggy Sobotka’s faceplant entry into the world of drug-trafficking, it never lost its feel for how every player fitted into the polity, and when their actions would cause them to lose their place. Hamartia turned out to be just as applicable to the Baltimore badlands as ancient Greece.
Maybe it’s the sheer momentum of The Wire’s character-writing that led it to drop the ball with its favourite son: Jimmy McNulty. Of course we came to know and love him as the incorrigible loose cannon of Baltimore homicide. But it’s not just his partner Bunk Moreland who had to cock an eyebrow at his antics in season five: McNulty, outraged by the slashing of police funding, decides to fabricate evidence that a serial killer is stalking Baltimore’s homeless. Hmm.
The seven episodes of the season – in which the whole of Baltimore is reeled into his fantasy – are the worst of The Wire’s run. Tied with the mechanics of the fakery – red ribbons around the victims’ wrists, heavy-breathing phone calls to the local rag – any tension in the storyline is stillborn. The Wire briefly becomes The McNulty Show. And a self-parodic McNulty at that, with some of Dominic West’s heaviest mugging; the series was teetering on the edge of the trap over-extended TV shows often fall into, indulging crowd-pleasing characters. Even voice of reason Lester Freamon, who becomes McNulty’s partner in crime, is dragged into this farrago.
Of course this is The Wire we’re talking about, and there was a serious point beneath this plot arc. The storyline runs in parallel with another about Baltimore Sun reporter Scott Templeton, who – like Jayson Blair – spices up his reporting with details of his own invention. Eventually, the two fabulists trip over each other in the “killer’s” wake. Creator David Simon, 12-year stalwart of the Sun, is questioning the sensationalist and commercial needs underlying modern news reporting. And, deeper still, the audience’s appetite for crime fiction itself. But meta ground – the first time the show puts a foot there – is perilous for The Wire. At best the detour seems frivolous; at worst, it threatens to dissolve the observational realism the previous four seasons were built on.
Simon pulls it around. McNulty eventually gets his comeuppance, and the show manages a magnificent crescendo of a finale. Rewatching it, the McNulty-Will-Kill-Again swerve stands out a bit less as a conspicuous drop in standards, perhaps because fabrication has gone mainstream. Fake News is now a trademark and – caught in the social-media hothouse – we all understand the conditions under which it has run rampant. The once-criminal has gone legit – meat and drink to The Wire, even in its weakest hour.
Tom Cruise has been filmed in apparent pain after a stunt for his new film Mission: Impossible 6 went awry.
Cruise was performing a scene for the latest instalment of the long-running franchise in London. It involved him jumping between two buildings with the assistance of a safety harness. Footage recorded by TMZ shows him mistiming his leap and crashing into the side of the second building. The actor was able to pull himself up onto the roof of the building but was then seen limping heavily before collapsing next to members of the film’s crew. It is not yet known what the extent of Cruise’s injuries are or whether he received hospital treatment.
Cruise is something of a rarity among Hollywood actors for insisting on performing many of his own stunts. In 2011, the actor scaled the outside of Dubai’s Burj Khalifa, currently the world’s tallest building, for a scene from Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol. For 2015’s Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation, meanwhile, he was attached to the exterior of an Airbus 400 as it took off. Cruise also performed inside a zero-gravity plane for the recent reboot of The Mummy.
Mission: Impossible 6 is set to be released in cinemas in July 2018. The film is directed by Christopher McQuarrie, who previously worked with Cruise on Mission Impossible – Rogue Nation and the first instalment in the Jack Reacher series.
Almost a year to the day since its controversial release, No Man’s Sky is still frequently awe inspiring. There’s beauty in its hyper-saturated sunsets and navy-hued space-scapes; there’s fascination in the occasionally hilarious procedurally generated creatures, or the rush of fear as a radioactive solar storm ravages a planet’s dusty surface. There’s still a thrill in diving below the top layer of cloud to find out what kind of biome lies beneath – even if a world’s surface can often look completely different to how it appeared from the dark blueness of space.
“What is No Man’s Sky?” was the question that circled, endlessly, around developer Hello Games while it worked on the game. Come its release in August 2016, it seemed that head honcho Sean Murray and his team didn’t really know the answer themselves. Part survival game, part ambient exploration, part mindless wandering simulator, part clearly unfinished experiment, it felt like a fabulous concept that had run away into something unattainably ambitious. The new Atlas Rises update is the closest the studio has come to really answering the big defining question about what its game does.
An overhauled storyline offers up a tangible directive that allows players to better plot a course through the umpteen planets that litter the procedurally generated universe; portals allow for quicker travel between worlds; there’s the first glimpses of a multiplayer component; not to mention dozens of minor tweaks that bring No Man’s Sky closer in line with a space sim like Elite: Dangerous.
There’s still a fair number of imperfections in No Man’s Sky, too, though – stuff that Atlas Rises fails or doesn’t attempt to fix. Progress is still slow and inventory management is still a complete slog, lessened somewhat by a couple of tweaks that allow for quicker recharging of weapons and tools, but still cumbersome and annoying. Unless you’re one of those players who enjoys zoning out while laser cutting vast chunks of aluminium, resource collection can also be quite dull, serving as an almost constant distraction from the parts of the game you want indulge in: exploration, discovery and developing your ship, space suit and all-purpose multi-tool.
So, what is Atlas Rises?
Well, it’s big. A new story is the main draw here, but it’s still a pretty loose and obscure affair, about the faltering fabric of the cosmos and the arrival of a new inter-dimensional species. As you progress, the game offers up incidental slow-building titbits of information to pull you through its mysteries, while explaining some of the relics that litter planets, including the sentinels. It boasts 30 hours of content but there’s no really knowing how accurate that claim is. There’s a clearer objectives system that far better ties together all of your ongoing tasks. Missions are easier to parse, and it’s now a more accommodating game for that subset of players looking to follow predestined course of action without having to create their own fun.
The update has you following a bunch of fetch quests to uncover a ton of new details about the lore of the universe, while continuing the game’s storytelling technique of giving you sparsely detailed bits of dialogue and having you choose a voiceless response to progress forward. The problem is that, while all of this exposition is actually pretty intriguing (by far the best No Man’s Sky has delivered in terms of narrative pull-through), the moment-to-moment activities may still feel boring to some – unless you’re playing in Survival Mode, where the increased danger and scarcity of resources does increase the tension enormously.
You’ve likely put enough time into No Man’s Sky by now, so the idea of repeating the same task to learn one individual word of an alien language is hardly an exciting prospect. The fact that the game’s other tasks are procedurally generated is a similarly problematic solution to regaining player interest. Randomly created missions offer up the opportunity to complete tasks in three individual tenets of play – exploration, trading and combat. But they’re not quite rewarding enough to stand up to endless hours of repetition.
What does help is the new Guilds feature, which essentially add a progression system for each of these three play styles. Trade things and you’ll attain a better standing with the Merchants Guild; venture out into the stars and you’ll progress in the Explorers Guild; do battle and you’ll become a more valued member of the Mercenaries Guild. The individual tasks you’re doing may not be the most interesting on their own, but the fact they tie into these Guilds is the best way to deliver near constant sense of forward inertia for your space traveller and his/her ship.
All of this rests upon a much stronger foundation of interlocking systems – better trading and a more diverse set of items to purchase and create, as well as better signposted maps and interfaces. For the first time No Man’s Sky feels like its heading towards a rounded set of options for a broader set of players. It’s by no means amazing at all of these, and the main draw is still clearly its open-ended approach to exploration, but Atlas Rises is a massive improvement on 12 months ago.
Combat, for example, used to be painfully simple – even tiresome. Atlas Rises goes a fair way towards adding a decent amount of challenge to dogfights, removing the autopilot that prevented you from crashing into a planet’s surface along the way. By handing more control to the player when flying around, No Man’s Sky now feels perilous at times, especially if you get jumped by a handful of newly-improved pirates.
Worlds are even more beautiful now, with far greater level of detail that ranges from the minute intricacies of a planet’s terrain, to the swirling gas clouds that form out in space. It’s pin sharp on PS4 Pro, with flora looking stunning, and the entire thing still pops with the hyper-coloured style that made the game such a striking hit when it was first revealed.
Hello Games has also said that the variety of individual biomes has been greatly increased to be even more weird and wonderful – so far, the game has offered up dozens of new worlds, but nothing noticeably more bizarre than at release. Save for a couple of new neon-lit structures found along the main quest path, it’s still down to the algorithm that randomly fuddles all of the artistry and prop design together into something masquerading as new and fresh – it often isn’t new and fresh at all, but there’s definitely less repetition than before and it still has the tendency to wow you when you think you’ve seen everything it has to offer.
No Man’s Sky will likely never outrun the inevitable monotony that comes with procedural generation, but with Atlas Rises, Hello Games has begun to more firmly shape the kind of game they want this to be – albeit with the exception of a half-cocked ‘multiplayer’ mode that allows you to see floating orbs representative of other players in the universe.
It’s no doubt a sign that the studio eventually wants to achieve a fully synchronous online universe, but right now it feels slightly half baked. Instead, Atlas Rises’ greatest achievement is its delivery of tangible single player goals that reduce the aimless space-wandering, while never removing the wonder of discovering, even if that discovery is a little less impressive one year on.
What is No Man’s Sky now, then? It’s better. Hello Games realised it has to show some players how to best enjoy their game – with more signposted objectives and a broader set of options with which to play around with. For that it’s worth dusting off for another jettison into space, even just for a few days of tooling around in its lush watercolour galaxy.
The first thing you notice about heavy metal festival Bloodstock is how ridiculously friendly it is. Clearly there is something about standing in the sunshine and watching huge, bearded Vikings bellowing about Ragnarok and Valhalla that brings out the best in people.
Swedish veterans Amon Amarth’s headlining set on Friday night is a wonderfully celebratory affair, as the band top the bill outdoors for the first time in their extraordinary 25-year upward trudge. Just in case anyone doubted their delight at reaching this new pinnacle, they bring insane amounts of fire and smoke, plus a giant sea serpent, Thor’s Hammer and some battling Viking warriors, while the drummer performs on top of a giant Viking helmet. It’s an explosive spectacle, knowingly preposterous but delivered with real passion. Judging by the startling number of people wearing their merchandise, Amon Amarth have already won hearts and minds in the metal scene, but this was a thrilling triumph nonetheless.
Earlier in the day, Poland’s Decapitated staked a convincing claim to be future headliners: once a pure death metal band, their recent evolution has nudged them towards the metal mainstream, and it is songs from new album Anticult that receive the rowdiest response.
Thrash metal is a big deal at Bloodstock this year, with everyone from old timers Kreator and Testament through to visceral newbies Havok and Shrapnel keeping the spirit of 85 alive, and proving that nothing else sends metalheads into such a frenzy of circle pits and flying lager. US thrashcore scamps Municipal Waste even manage to break a world record for the largest number of crowd-surfers during a single song. You don’t get that at Latitude.
Saturday’s highlights are both a little off-piste for the old-school contingent: King 810 pull off a stunning return to the UK, despite being a guitarist down, with a set that occasionally feels too deep, dark and intimate for the outdoors but that provokes one of the weekend’s most raucous sing-alongs during the climactic Killem All. Meanwhile, Hatebreed get the loudest response of the whole festival by simply battering everyone with positivity and massive riffs. Saturday headliners Ghost pull out all the cod-Satanic theatrical stops. It’s an entertaining 90 minutes of great songs and mischievous weirdness, even though frontman Papa Emeritus III appears to be turning into the heavy metal Frank N Furter, replete with wide-eyed smutty asides.
Sunday’s peaks include the joyous sight of wheelchair-bound Possessed frontman Jeff Becerra snarling and howling like the last 30 years didn’t happen, and Skindred’s irresistible ragga-metal hybrid making a field full of exhausted fans dance like idiots for a full hour. It all ends with the most powerful Megadeth set the UK has seen in a long time, climaxing with a truly startling version of the still depressingly relevant Holy Wars ... The Punishment Due. Bloodstock’s cheerful nurturing of the metal spirit even brings the best out of Dave Mustaine, it seems.
Warning: this blog contains spoilers for Game of Thrones season seven, episode five. Do not read on unless you have watched.
Remember the bad old days of sexposition? All that naked flesh cynically deployed in the background – or even foreground – to sugar the presumably bitter pill of Westeros world-building? Sexposition was the stick used to beat Game of Thrones in the show’s early running, and it always felt like some HBO executive hedging their bets: if we’re going to let these fantasy characters discuss the detailed history, weirdly messed up seasons and absurdly tangled royal lineage of some made-up quasi-medieval continent, best throw in some titillation to stop bored viewers tuning out.
Fast-forward to season seven and it is a very different story. No need for writhing concubines or fluffy handcuffs: we are all locked in. It doesn’t even matter that every character is now sporting leather armour that covers 90% of their body. This breakneck-paced season has offered a different kind of eye candy: blockbuster-beating action, lusty sea battles, crafty castle sackings, terrifying dragons in full vengeful flight. For a large percentage of viewers, though, there’s a comparable thrill to piecing together the breadcrumbs of the show’s deep plotting. To successfully decode the fractured history of Westeros feels like a gateway to foreseeing its ultimate fate, looming just a season away.
Which is why Eastwatch – an episode required to brush away the smouldering remains of the spectacular Loot Train Attack before resetting the board for the season’s climactic double-whammy – arguably had its headline moment overshadowed by a maester’s chickenscratch on a dusty scroll. The much-anticipated return of Gendry (Joe Dempsie) was an open secret. The showrunners, perhaps feeling guilty for making Dempsie a benchwarmer for three seasons, bent over backwards to make his comeback cool. Get ready, they seemed to be saying, because here comes the hot smelter.
It was Davos who waved Gendry off in a rowboat, and it was Davos who located him again in a Fleabottom smithy. With his new badass buzzcut, the doughty blacksmith with royal blood coursing through his muscular arms was shown to be mission-ready, scooping up his Jason Bourne-style go-bag before the grouchy smuggler had even finished his recruitment pitch and expertly donking two King’s Landing watchmen with a customised warhammer. He even got do some manly you’re-a-bastard, I’m-a-bastard bonding with Jon Snow. Everything about Gendry’s return seemed intended to signal that This Guy And His Rad Hammer Are A Big Deal.
And yet. The moments that really got the blood pumping were more subtle. Jon’s ability to fondle Drogon’s muzzle without being turned to charcoal was a scene played without dialogue, perhaps to allow viewers space to squee over this latest confirmation that the King in the North has more than a little dragon-taming Targaryen DNA in him. Then there was dedicated student Gilly who, amid the papyrus graveyard of the Citadel, happened across the equivalent of a footnote in the small ads section of the local paper. Here, suddenly, was a glimmer of proof that Rhaeger, son of the Mad King, had annulled his previous marriage before his son Jon Snow was born, giving him by far the strongest claim to the Iron Throne.
That renegade maester Samwell was too busy seething over the short-sightedness of his elders to clock the importance of this was hardly the point. It was there for the viewer, another breadcrumb to ponder, another piece of evidence to index, another link to add to our personal maester’s chain of how we think it will all end. Instead of loitering in Littlefinger’s bawdy houses, we are walking patiently through our personal mind palaces, obsessing over historical marginalia. Impressively, Game of Thrones has made maesters of us all.
Fringe history was made last year when, for the first time, Scottish performers walked off with both major comedy awards: best show and best newcomer. Native talent had seldom bothered the shortlists previously, and some hope this double whammy might inspire emerging acts to follow where – over the last decade – Frankie Boyle, Susan Calman and Kevin Bridges have sporadically led. Others, better versed in local comedians’ vexed relationship with their home-turf festival, sound a note of caution. “There’ll be comics in Scotland who heard the result and went, ‘Brilliant!’,” said 2016 best newcomer Scott Gibson. “And there’ll be others who say, ‘Well, that’s us for another 25 years!’ That’s how we think, and it’s stupid.”
By dint of his win, Gibson is among the more prominent Scottish acts on this year’s fringe. His new show hints at the obstacles that might hold local talent back. His award-winning debut, the story of a brain haemorrhage suffered when he was 24, was distinguished by Glaswegian bluntness, yes, but was essentially tender and sympathetic. His follow-up, Like Father Like Son, is a rowdier affair. At its heart, it documents Gibson’s relationship with his absent father and is bracingly honest – and sometimes darkly funny – about the son’s resentment at having to care for his dad in the latter’s old age.
But it also shows a boorish side to Gibson that wasn’t apparent last time out. He boasts about his wife’s breasts and jokes that he wishes she’d die in her sleep. He makes a routine about cleaning up his dad’s faeces the centrepiece of the show. He also relies too heavily on shouting to sell his material on, for example, being overweight.
His show – and that of compatriot Mark Nelson – brings to mind Gibson’s comment last year that, in lieu of a viable professional circuit, “70% of the work [in Scottish comedy] is at the back of a pub”. To judge by Gibson’s and Nelson’s shows, that favours masculine blue humour over creative adventurousness. Nelson is currently riding high on the back of web series News at 3, on which his three-year-old daughter pronounces on the week’s news. But you’d keep your kids well away from his Gilded Balloon show, Irreverence, which debates whether you should give your daughter a “slutty” name, dumbshows Melania Trump fellating her husband and foregrounds a routine in which Nelson “fingers [his] baby’s arsehole” – a phrase he repeats, self-delightedly, over and over again.
Far superior is Fern Brady’s show at the Stand, the best yet from the Bathgate comic who “only [does] comedy because I feel dead inside”. Cynicism is Brady’s shtick, but she wears it more lightly these days, and this year inches closer to the kind of redemptive narrative that – at every opportunity – she publicly decries. Like many a Scottish comic, she cleaves tightly to her working-class identity, defining herself in opposition to “posh women”. But that’s just detail. The meat of this show traces an unorthodox route to comedy via an Arabic and Islamic history degree, work as a stripper (the subject of her 2016 set) and domestic abuse.
There are pleasingly sharp gags about sexism on the comedy circuit and the type of problem usually fielded by Edinburgh Uni’s counselling service. It’s an effective show, which finds its near-mirror in the debut offering by Scottish actor Rachel Jackson at the Pleasance. Jackson’s show is called Bunny Boiler and chronicles her romantic life across the span of four or five awful relationships. Jackson, a star of BBC sitcom Scot Squad, is a charming enough host, her surly-psychotic persona cracking frequently into a winning smile. But the show, which began life as a theatrical monologue, is stronger on personality and narrative incident than on jokes, of which there are few.
If Scottish talent is to trouble the awards shortlists again this year, Larry Dean is as likely a candidate as Brady. As in 2015, when he was shortlisted for best newcomer, his act operates as a dialogue between his identities as a gay man and a cheeky-chappy working-class Glaswegian. Such tensions as they generate feel better resolved here, as he recounts using straight porn in Dubai, where the gay version is banned; and tells a shaggy-dog story about coffee with a potentially homophobic ex-con. Irn Bru in hand, Dean has the easy charm of an arena comic, and the high joke rate, too, including several about we Scots. “We’ve won,” he says, of the supposed moral victory Scotland scored by voting to remain in the EU, “because we’ve lost? That’s the most Scottish thing we’ve ever done!” Whether Scottish comics can consolidate last year’s two-pronged Comedy awards triumph remains to be seen.
On paper, this audiophile event showcasing the dance and hip-hop underground is one of the smartest, most necessary dates in the festival calendar, but harsh reality intervenes. As at Boomtown the previous weekend, the British tolerance for queuing is pushed to its absolute limit by the three-hour wait to get in, followed by another serious queue for booze to soften the pain; many attendees have their day unacceptably truncated.
If it helps them feel better, they didn’t miss much early on. London producer Romare flirts with some intriguing polyrhythms, but his Latin percussion breaks have their rangy funk smoothed out by being too neatly looped; the very tame live sax and flute lines, devoid of passion or direction, worsen matters. Similarly directionless is Roy Ayers, who has some enchanted devotees, but whose interminable, fussily meandering vibraphone lines are a struggle for the rest.
But there are some undeniable triumphs. Theo Parrish’s funk selections are as limber as Romare’s were brittle, and he beams as the horns from Outkast’s SpottieOttieDopaliscious ring out. They can be heard in Motor City Drum Ensemble’s set too, and while it’s a typically euphoric spread of disco and house, he’s a DJ who has been operating deep in a comfort zone for some years now. More arresting are Helena Hauff, playing a supremely assured and focused set of phantasmagoric industrial techno; and Ben UFO, whose deep crates, omnivorous taste and acute sense of an audience have justly made him an icon in this scene – he plays a set laced with UK funky and garage, swerving bland nostalgia for a psychogeographic survey of south London dance culture. Larry Heard’s headline live set meanwhile is a spiritually nourishing trip through 30 years of vocal house.
In terms of hip-hop, Madlib has the backpacker boys swooning with his airing of J Dilla cuts alongside his own dusty, impressionistic style, but the real star of the day is Princess Nokia. With a scornful flow reminiscent of Foxy Brown, she rinses and spits water like a boxer, twerks with aplomb and delivers some incredible self-aggrandising freestyles, announcing she’s “a businessman, not a Soundcloud ho”. Given strong choruses, she could be a major breakout star in 2018.
A Sunfall ticket includes a choice of nine afterparties. I head to one hosted by futurist Scottish rave crew Numbers, where Jackmaster and Peggy Gou go back to back in a commanding European tour of electro and Italo, with Objekt’s genre-straddling hit Theme from Q sat at its heart; DJ Bone then delivers an overwhelming, information-rich showcase of high-speed techno. Sixteen hours of mostly pedigree music makes for a strong day overall, but those queues mean it may be remembered by many with gritted teeth.
David Lynch has paid tribute to David Bowie in his drama series Twin Peaks, dedicating the most recent episode to the late singer.
David Lynch dedicates Part 14 of #TwinPeaks to David Bowie. pic.twitter.com/cIPxwpCV33
Bowie briefly appeared in Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me, the 1992 film prequel to the cult TV series, as the dapper-suited, mentally fraught FBI agent Phillip Jeffries. According to Harry Goaz, who plays Andy Brennan, Bowie was due to appear in the current series of the show, but didn’t film his scenes before his death. Lynch nevertheless included him in the latest episode, using Fire Walk With Me footage in a dream sequence.
The appearance puts Bowie in the company of numerous other musical guest stars in the current series, including Moby, Nine Inch Nails, Sky Ferreira and Hudson Mohawke.
Bruno Mars has donated $1m in aid to Flint, Michigan, to help continue the relief work in the wake of the city’s water supply being contaminated with lead.
The singer, who has topped the US singles chart seven times, announced the donation on stage in Auburn Hills, halfway between Detroit and Flint. He later wrote in a statement: “I’m very thankful to the Michigan audience for joining me in supporting this cause. Ongoing challenges remain years later for Flint residents, and it’s important that we don’t forget our brothers and sisters affected by this disaster. As people, especially as Americans, we need to stand together to make sure something like this never happens in any community ever again.”
The crisis began in 2014, when the city’s water supply was switched from the Detroit river to the Flint river as part of a cost-saving initiative. Residents’ water became discoloured and was found to contain high levels of bacteria, disinfectant and lead. An outbreak of Legionnaires’ disease resulted from the switch, with around 100 affected, leading to 12 deaths.
In June, five state officials were charged with involuntary manslaughter. “People in Flint have died as a result of the decisions made with those charged to protect the health and safety of those individuals,” said attorney general Bill Schuette.
Mars – who has just released a new video for his song Versace on the Floor, co-starring Disney star Zendaya – is the latest celebrity to donate to the relief effort, following Cher, Eminem, Mark Wahlberg, Puff Daddy and more.
Hackers have leaked a trove of unaired episodes of HBO’s Curb Your Enthusiasm, Insecure, Ballers, Barry and The Deuce, as they continue to in their efforts to extort the US television network.
The leaks over the weekend did not include any further episodes of Game of Thrones, but did include the latest episode of Insecure, which was due to be broadcast on Sunday evening, and several episodes of the highly anticipated new series of Curb Your Enthusiasm, which is due to return in October.
The attack occurred in July, where hackers claim to have had access to 1.5TB of data – the equivalent to several TV box sets or millions of documents. HBO acknowledged the theft of “proprietary information”, and the demand for a multimillion-dollar ransom, but said it did not believe its email system as a whole has been compromised, despite the leaking of emails, documents and the personal phone numbers and email addresses of Game of Thrones actors.
An HBO spokesperson said that the company was “not in communication with the hacker, and we’re not going to comment every time a new piece of information is released”.
“The hacker may continue to drop bits and pieces of stolen information in an attempt to generate media attention. That’s a game we’re not going to participate in.”
While the effects of the attack on HBO have fallen short of the chaos that hit Sony Pictures in 2014, the hackers have leaked Game of Thrones scripts, sensitive internal documents such as job offer letters and a month’s worth of emails from a programming executive.
Gartner analyst Avivah Litan said that the hackers might be holding on to more sensitive and damaging information and TV shows. She said: “It’s kind of like kidnap and ransom and torture. Eventually HBO may have to give in.”
Thursday 31 August marks 30 years since Michael Jackson released Bad, the long-awaited follow up to his record-breaking 1982 album Thriller. With two Grammy award wins and five No 1 US singles, its commercial and critical success cemented Jackson’s place as one of the most successful artists of all time; it sold around 35 million copies worldwide.
To mark its 30th anniversary, we’d like to hear what other albums from 1987 made a lasting impression on you upon their release thirty years ago. Is Michael Jackson’s Bad as good as it gets? Can U2’s The Joshua Tree give it a run for its money? Is Whitney Houston’s second album Whitney a favourite, or George Michael’s debut Faith?
Whether it’s an album that has sold millions, or a more obscure choice, let us know what 1987 album you think deserves to be celebrated by filling out the form below. We’ll do a roundup of some of your favourites on the site.
Online, they call it “ruin porn”: a 2010s photography trend that has inspired gallery exhibitions, clickbaity listicles and academic theses with titles such as The Anxiety of Decline. Yet cinema’s fascination with disused buildings, like the one in the new Venezuelan feature by Jorge Thielen Armand goes much deeper. The dreamy La Soledad manages to be as confrontational and vitally political as a slasher flick set in those unoccupied properties near Grenfell Tower would be.
Derelict buildings just look great on film. Their dusty corners and broken windows make for an unusual interplay of shadow and light, prepackaged with an intense emotional impact. This might be the creepiness of empty spaces in The Shining, or the bittersweet remembrance of faded glamour in the Maysles brothers’ 1975 documentary classic Grey Gardens. The spectacle of hubristic skyscrapers reclaimed by nature is usually the most compelling reason to watch apocalyptic sci-fi like Will Smith vehicle I Am Legend.
But in Armand’s debut film, the dilapidated building isn’t just a visual metaphor; La Soledad is real. Soon to be demolished, the Caracas house of the film’s title once belonged to the director’s great-grandparents until it was taken on unofficially by their housekeeper Rosina. Many of the characters play themselves and while the action is dramatised, the film’s basis in truth makes the line between fiction and reality as crumbly as La Soledad’s masonry.
More to the point, this particular decaying mansion is haunted by both the living and the dead. The elderly Rosina is still there, now living with her grandson, José. We see him queuing for hours to obtain milk for his daughter, and in search of scarce medication for his ailing grandmother, just as millions of Venezuelans are currently forced to do. At a time when foreign reporters are increasingly unwelcome, Armand’s film serves as an important record. But this is a magical realism that sees no easy solutions. In scenes bathed in an eerie tropical twilight, José searches for hidden gold that his grandmother tells him is guarded by the ghost of a murdered slave. In the midst of their desperation, this seems like the family’s most realistic hope.
La Soledad recognises the nostalgia that abandoned spaces inspire, but is never distracted from the more immediate suffering of their ad hoc occupants. In the context of housing crises at home and abroad, cinema’s empty buildings have been filled with new meaning.
La Soledad is out on 18 August
Helpline
In the call centre at the end of the worldeveryone is wearing the ragsof the clothes they came to work in two weeks ago.
From floor ten we count fires in the distancethe smoking remains of suburbs.
Tea breaks are strictly monitoredand the internet is still therebut we are getting tired of news.
We sleep where we’re comfortable –stairwells, carpet, canteen chairs.
Lateness for shifts is not toleratedalthough at this stage few of ushave homes to go to.Demand for the service is high.
I don’t know why I’ve stayed so long in this jobwhen the world in which I could spend its ample wagehas disintegrated –politicians in hidingsupermarkets forced open on burst streets
perhaps it’s because they all tell methat my voice could be the last one they hear
perhaps it’s because almost every worried callerreminds me of my worried mother
or because we talk about wallflowers,the hunger, the smell of burned paintreminisce about summer in the park.
Her dog went out two days ago and hasn’t come backIf I’d died he could have eaten meshe saysit sounds like a regret.
This week’s poem, Helpline, appears in the inaugural issue of Strix, the new, Leeds-based journal of poetry and short fiction. Co-edited by Ian Harker and Andrew Lambeth, the latter known more familiarly on this blog as nosuchzone, Strix is handsome, streamlined and sharp-eyed like its avian namesake. Issue One is packed with contributions from fresh-thinking writers, some well-known, others just starting out. Suzannah Evans, who also contributes a strong piece of prose on a theme related to that of Helpline, is one of those whose writing was new to me, and sparked my imagination.
Helpline has an arresting start: “In the call centre at the end of the world …” The term “call centre” itself is enough to make waves in a reader’s brain: as two separated words, it becomes more of a concept, open-ended. Is the “end of the world” a place as well as a chronological point? A place where all the calls for help in the world end up? This introductory stanza steers quickly away from broader exposition to local detail, but sets out the dystopian possibilities.
Stanza two identifies the speaker as one of the call handlers, and this is the voice we hear from now on throughout the poem. It’s somewhat matter-of-fact, suggesting an informal report, diary entry or letter, possibly even a conversation with someone at a different helpline. The contents appear to be uncensored, whereas the situation evoked inside the centre is one of limited freedom.
As the call handlers are portrayed as loyal employees, determinedly, perhaps obsessively, going about their work and adjusting to its new dimension, questions are raised concerning their autonomy. While the speaker and her colleagues are allowed some respite (tea breaks, internet access) there’s clearly an unequal power structure in operation.
Readers are free to imagine further contexts. The helpline handlers could have been taken hostage and be unable to leave for reasons unconnected to the fact that “few of us / have homes to go to”. It may be that the news that they’re “getting tired of” is so bad that certain cognitive processes have shut down. Knowing their place in a hierarchy, even an illusory one, enables them to function. They seem genuinely busy. “Demand for the service is high.”
Stanza six tells us a little more about what has gone wrong outside (“politicians in hiding / supermarkets forced open on burst streets”) and, by implication, what it was like before. The call handler received an “ample wage”, and continued to do so while society “disintegrated”. The work ethic faintly visible at the heart of the poem hints that compassion and dedication are more durable than monetary reward. The images of the cowering politicians and “the supermarkets forced open on burst streets” are powerful, and indicate a popular uprising or revolution. Human values, and the importance of the human voice itself, are emphasised in the ensuing two couplets (stanzas seven and eight), perhaps the point at which the poem’s emotional core is most visible and affecting.
Helpline’s lineation is governed by speech rhythms, and punctuation is fairly minimal. The genre is narrative rather than lyric, although there are moments that afford a little glimpse into the walled garden of image and emotion we expect from lyric poetry. One of these occurs in stanza nine, where the reported conversation between call handler and caller seems to reflect the old order, its comforting demarcations, its emphasis on the richness of remembered sense experience, even as streets burn.
The last stanza adjusts the scenario back to a worsening reality. From what the caller is now saying, we must assume the onset of starvation. The idea that the pet dog might have survived by eating its owner merges horror with macabre satire. The narrator’s comment “it sounds like a regret” suggests the struggle to gain understanding across the frail connecting tissue of the phone line. Such instabilities of narrative tone are psychologically convincing, reminders of the accommodations and guesses, the bleak jokes and shared nostalgia, the scraps of news and, dare I say it, “fake news” that are part of the fabric of survival in extremis.
Evans writes that her pamphlet Confusion Species was a winner in the 2011 Poetry Business book and pamphlet competition, and in 2013 she was the winner of a Northern Writers’ award. She lives in Sheffield, where she works as a freelance poetry editor and publicist and teaches for the Open College of Arts. Her poetry has been published in magazines including the Rialto, Poetry Review and Magma. She is working on a collection of apocalyptic poetry which, she says, will hopefully be published before the world ends.
We are not quite in Gilead territory yet, but there is no doubt it’s getting harder to have a baby in the UK. Social trends and economic pressures mean many delay parenthood until their natural fertility has declined, just as a cash-strapped NHS implements new limits on IVF. Since the start of the year, 13 areas of England have restricted or completely halted treatments, with a further eight consulting on taking similar steps. It is in this context that the number of UK babies born to surrogates leapt from 117 in 2011 to 331 in 2015. The figure for 2016 is predicted to top 400, with many couples pursuing costly arrangements abroad (data in 2015 showed a total of 57 destinations) and many more either considering surrogacy or making the kinds of informal arrangements that don’t show up in statistics.
Is it any wonder, then, that two of the best TV dramas of the year so far are all about other women’s wombs? The Handmaid’s Tale, which came to an end on Channel 4 last month, and Top of the Lake: China Girl, also starring Elisabeth Moss and currently airing on BBC2. One takes place in a future dystopian US, the other in contemporary Sydney, but both conceive of a world where infertility is the scourge of the privileged and surrogacy is the far-from-simple cure.
Making babies in unconventional ways used to be a lot more fun. It was a light-hearted storyline for Friends when Phoebe had triplets as a favour to her estranged half-brother, and Manhattanites Monica and Chandler got mixed up with a ditzy pregnant teen from the midwest. The New Normal was an entire surrogacy-themed sitcom, airing from 2012 to 2013 on NBC and, in India – where commercial surrogacy was made legal in 2002 (though legislation is currently on the table to prohibit it) – the topic has long been popular in soap operas.
However, those with on-the-ground experience have argued against too rosy a depiction of this multimillion dollar industry. In 2012, gynaecologist Suman Bijlani shared with the Times of India her concern that “soaps portray these procedures as almost frivolous” and therefore result in “unrealistic expectations”. In the US, where commercial surrogacy is legal in some states, former paediatric nurse Jennifer Lahl founded San Francisco’s Center for Bioethics and Culture in part to “expose the myth that surrogacy is as charitable an endeavour as many think it is. In fact, it leaves countless exploited women in its wake.”
We meet several such exploited women in Top of the Lake: China Girl, Thai sex workers living in Sydney and acting as illegal surrogates to wealthy Australian couples. There must be something in the water, because stories of childlessness abound on-screen and off. Detective Robin Griffin (Moss) confides her three miscarriages to a friend who suggests it is “Nature trying to tell you something”, while her own natural child is the now-teenage Mary, played by 22-year-old Alice Englert, the real-life daughter of TotL’s writer-director Jane Campion. Mary has been adopted by the infertile Julia, played by Nicole Kidman, who had a child via surrogate in 2010. Kidman told an interviewer that these parallels had been discussed at the outset. “Jane said to me: ‘Would this be a difficult place for you to go in terms of what the theme of this is?’ And I said: ‘No, because my story seemed very different.’ Mine was agreed upon, and it was a beautiful thing that a woman chose to give us. It was an incredible gift she made.”
TotL’s implicit equation of surrogacy and prostitution is potentially controversial, but it’s very much in keeping with TV’s new awareness of the global politics of fertility. In the economies of western cities like Sydney, both industries involve the individual woman’s “choice” to commercialise her body, which, given her financial need, is often no choice at all. The show’s images of young women waiting out their 40 weeks in the tense boredom of dormitory-style rooms are also reminiscent of House of Surrogates, a 2013 BBC4 documentary about the Akanksha Infertility Clinic in small-town India, patronised mostly by couples from the UK, the US and Canada, and run by the glamorous matriarch-meets-entrepreneur, Dr Nayna Patel.
“I knew when I first visited that viewers would have impulsive reactions,” says Matt Rudge, the doc’s British producer-director. “But what I knew the film would do, is slowly take viewers deeper, to meet those involved, so that their presumptions would ultimately be turned on their head.” Indeed, Anand’s surrogates receive an all-round care package that includes advice and coaching from Dr Patel herself and the film also shows the life-changing potential of the money they make (£40 a month and £4,000 on delivery).
Yet House of Surrogates’ depiction of a vast global wealth gap, as well as the careless way the bonds of baby and birth mother are severed, remains upsetting. Rudge believes that our culture’s fascination with surrogacy has less to do with the sci-fi strangeness of the procedure, and more to do with the emotions involved. “Hope, disappointment, separation, love, loss, family; in that sense, it’s a story that goes to the heart of being human. The themes are universal.”
Indeed, sterility is often used as a metaphor for the kind of imminent environmental disaster that really should concern us all. That’s the case in The Handmaid’s Tale, where the rise of the new totalitarian state was precipitated by a falling birth rate linked to pollution, but it was also a theme in Lost, the Channel 4 series Utopia, and the 2006 movie Children of Men. We ignore the ticking of Mother Nature’s own biological clock at our peril, because when time runs out for her, there’s no IVF specialist on the planet that can save us.
The new dramas, though, are less concerned with infertility’s environmental causes than its emotional consequences. They specialise in a kind of female-specific body horror – think the mewling foetuses in TotL’s dream sequences, or Ofglen waking up with a bandaged crotch in The Handmaid’s Tale – that makes a huge, global injustice feel deeply personal. Just how personal? Alice Englert says her wincingly accurate portrayal of the cruelty teens can inflict on their parents (and visa versa) was not based on true events: “Gratefully the relationship on screen is not our relationship!” She also describes her co-stars Moss and Kidman as “a very cool posse of mums”, yet TotL’s on-screen depiction of motherhood is much more fraught than this easy-going on-set atmosphere.
In made-for-TV melodramas such as The Surrogacy Trap (2013) and A Deadly Adoption (2015), or Hollywood comedies like Baby Mama (2008), it was the surrogates who were the problem, either too trashy or too psychotic to be accepted into the modern, proudly nonconformist family unit. Now, it’s the “commissioning” parent – and particularly the mother – who is looked at askance. When, in Top of the Lake, a woman is found wandering barefoot, screaming for a lost child that never existed, her husband says it’s simple: “She’d be OK if she could just have a baby; it would make her sane.” It’s the same kind of insanity-provoking desperation that drives much of Serena Joy’s cruel behaviour in The Handmaid’s Tale, and that arguably underpins the entire Gilead regime.
What prevents the best of these dramas from slipping into an insensitive stereotype of the “barren woman” is a perspective that’s not just female, but a specific kind of female. In Bodies, a new play by Vivienne Franzmann, which finishes its first run at London’s Royal Court theatre today, Clem pays £22,000 to have a Russian woman’s egg implanted in an Indian woman’s womb. The baby is very much yearned for but Clem’s guilt and estrangement from her disapproving socialist dad take their toll. Franzmann told the Stage she wanted to tackle “the degree to which white, middle-class women are complicit in the oppression of women with less privilege and power … As a white, middle-class woman, that felt confronting in a good way.” If that statement sounds close to something TotL’s philosopher-pimp Puss might come up with, that’s no accident.
Campion’s drama also seems interested in the extent to which white feminist guilt is useful or merely indulgent. “I was fascinated by the issues of fairness and entitlement explored in the show, and all the hypocrisies and contrariness of the characters,” says Englert. “I don’t know … I’m all questions, too! Entitlement is havoc for all, is the only opinion that currently comes to mind, but that I mean generally. I don’t have any definitive feelings on surrogacy; I’d be out of my depth if I tried to comment.”
Top of the Lake: China Girl invites such deep dives, though. And from within its subaqueous gloom shines the hopeful light of an extraordinary, intergenerational collaboration. “I do think it is our close knowledge of each other that created what we did with Mary,” adds Englert. “Mum and I knew we could do something weird, and with love, together.”
Top of the Lake continues 17 August, 9pm, BBC2 and is available in full on BBC iPlayer
Some books seem to carry a memory of the fun their creators must have had conceiving them and the latest from Scottish author/illustrator Ross Collins – about a platypus enduring a series of job interviews with some snooty zoo animals – is shot through with a particular brand of mischief. Told in rhyming couplets with beautifully expressive illustrations, it bounces along, a pleasure to read aloud.
First to grill the platypus is Chi Chi the panda, who resembles a podgy, ageing star, surrounded by his own merchandise: “I’m special, rare/ and famous too/ To get me here/ was quite a coup/ But you don’t even eat bamboo!/ I think, this zoo/ is not for you.” And it’s downhill from there: to the flamingos the platypus looks like “a worn-out shoe”, while the monkeys target him with poo.
Like Rod Campbell’s classic lift-the-flap book, Dear Zoo (celebrating its 35th birthday this year), Collins’s tale explores how the differences between things can be described, but has added bite. After the dawning realisation that they’ve been rude, however, the animals apologise and the story evolves into one about acceptance and understanding.
There’s a touch of Tim Minchin about Collins, who has worked on more than 100 children’s books and won several awards: his tone is funny but heartfelt and a little bit rock’n’roll. Here, the book’s final scenes are a riot of glitter balls, costumes and cocktails as it transpires the platypus had visited the zoo to deliver a party invitation, not apply for a job, and the animals make friends before hitting the dancefloor. Clearly Collins knows how to throw a good party – young children should find the invitation irresistible.
• This Zoo Is Not For You by Ross Collins is published by Nosy Crow (£11.99). To order a copy for £10.19 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Spoiler alert: this blog is published after Game of Thrones airs on HBO in the US on Sunday night and on Foxtel in Australia on Monday. Do not read unless you have watched season seven, episode five, which airs in the UK on Sky Atlantic on Monday at 2am and 9pm, and is repeated in Australia on Showcase on Monday at 7.30pm AEST.
If last week’s Game of Thrones toyed with the iconography of the wild west, Eastwatch switched to a different genre entirely: the men-on-a-mission movie. Jon’s assignment couldn’t have been more straightforward: sneak under the Wall, snatch an undead soldier and present him to Queen Cersei – and by extension the realm – as proof that the Night King’s army presents a real and present danger to the people of Westeros. But where was he going to find a bunch of guys brave or crazy enough to pull off this crackpot scheme?
The rest of the episode played like the first half of any great behind-enemy-lines war movie, from The Dirty Dozen to Inglourious Basterds, chucking in a touch of Ocean’s Eleven heist flick for good measure. And it was an absolute joy to watch the gang come together: there was Jorah Mormont, springing from his sickbed and right into the fray. And here – joy of joys – was Gendry, ruddy-faced as ever, swinging a brand new warhammer that might as well have “this machine kills wights” stencilled on the handle. It was damn near impossible to suppress a cheer when Tormund Giantsbane joined the crew, mad-bearded, wild-eyed and still lusting after “the big woman”.
Every role in this fur-trimmed A-team was neatly filled, one by one: Thoros of Myr makes the perfect wisecracking Murdock, with The Hound as his scowling, taciturn BA Baracus. Beric Dondarrion is the war-scarred old-timer, the wise old dog who knows this will be his final fight. And Jon is their charismatic frontman, leading this ragged band out into no man’s land, knowing full well that not all of them will make it back.
With all this testosterone flying about, the two queens were relegated to little more than supporting roles. Daenerys got her big speech in early, offering a choice to the half-cooked Lannister army: join up, or get a taste of dragonfire. Two flambéed Tarlys later and they were all hers. The death of grumpy old patriarch Randyll wasn’t much of a loss but poor Dickon seemed to have a bright future. Still, he made his bed and he burned in it.
From there, Dany’s role was chiefly to act as the source of unspoken tension between Jon and his new lieutenant, Jorah, who watched slit-eyed as his beloved cosied up to the dashing newcomer. The flirtation between the royal couple stepped up yet another notch, Dany looking decidedly flushed as Jon volunteered to go north and give Johnny Undead a stern seeing-to. She even let him pet her dragons (the way Jon called them “gorgeous beasts” like a Yorkshire farmer admiring three fine heifers was rather wonderful), adding fuel to those rumours that he’ll be one of Dany’s dragon-riding trifecta when the final battle rolls around.
Cersei, meanwhile, was still stuck at King’s Landing, dreaming of mercenary armies and plotting to turn Tyrion’s offer of truce against him. Still, at least she’s finally aware that he had nothing to do with Joffrey’s death, whether or not she believes it. The reunion between the two Lannister boys was predictably prickly – as Tyrion reminded us, “the last time I was here I killed my father with a crossbow” – but at least Jaime and Tyrion are talking. It did take some fairly wild plot contortions to get there, though: did Bronn really swim that far dragging an unconscious man in full armour? And what on Earth made Tyrion think that turning up undisguised in the vicinity of King’s Landing was in any way appropriate?
Back in the north, intrigue piled upon intrigue. It was no surprise at all when the Northern lords’ shift of allegiance from Jon to Sansa turned out to be Littlefinger’s handiwork, whispering in ears and rounding up a network of Northern informers. Will Arya confront him and accuse him outright of sowing dissent among the surviving Stark children? Or is she considering joining him, for reasons best known to herself? It’s still not quite clear if Arya knows that Baelish framed her father. Could she be setting him up for a fall?
The scene between the two sisters was one of the episode’s best, as both Sansa and Arya refused to realise how much the other has changed. To Arya, her older sibling is still the pampered princess, whose finery makes her feel like she’s “better than everybody else”. For Sansa, Arya is still a rough-and-tumble girl, tough-talking but essentially toothless. It’s painful to see them starting to work against one another, when the real enemy is already on their borders.
Not that those fuddy-duddy Maesters are ready for it. Sam’s scenes appeared to offer hasty closure to the Oldtown plotline, hauling in Gilly for a spot of blunt-force foreshadowing (Rhaegar and Lyanna were secretly hitched! The bastard of Winterfell isn’t a bastard after all!) before Sam saddled his pony and headed out, presumably north. Still, at least he got to play his own little role in the heist to come, sneaking around the Citadel library like the bookish sidekick who furnishes the team with blueprints to the bank.
• This was perhaps the least action-packed episode in Game of Thrones so far but it was crammed to bursting with incredible two-man dialogue scenes. The pick of the bunch was yet another of Tyrion and Varys’ regular masterclasses in pithy banter: “It’s a sealed scroll from the King in the North.” “What’s it say?”
• Joe Dempsie was just a delight as Gendry, falling over himself to join Davos on his trip north and going toe-to-toe with Jon as the two (alleged) bastards discussed their legendary dads: “You’re a lot leaner.” “You’re a lot shorter.”
• And last, but far from least, the reunion of Tyrion and Jorah was brief but unexpectedly touching: “I’ve missed you, Mormont. Nobody glowers quite like you.”
A pair of fried Tarlys and two hammered Gold Cloaks aside, this week was wall-to-Wall chit chat.
Once again, the entire cast kept their jerkins securely fastened. There’s far too much plot flying around for anyone to have time for nookie.
This one really was random, as The Actor, Kevin Eldon – last seen creeping the boards in Braavos – reappeared in an entirely differently role as a doomed Gold Cloak. Did the casting directors think we wouldn’t notice?
CCTV footage doesn’t get much more extraordinary than what was captured in the check-in area of Kuala Lumpur International airport on 13 February this year. A shortish, roundish man walks towards one of those self-check-in kiosks to get his boarding pass. This is where it happens, some kind of incident. It’s a way off, and not very clear, but when the footage is zoomed in, we can see more. Two women approach the man, one puts something that looks like a cloth over his mouth. Then they walk calmly off, it’s all over in a few seconds. Nobody around them appears to have noticed that anything at all has happened.
Then, in footage from another camera, we see the man, looking animated, reporting the incident – his own assassination, as it happens – to the police; then security staff are leading him to the airport clinic. By which time the man is beginning to drag his feet. And sweating, we learn. Soon his coordination will be all over the place, he will have a seizure, defecate and die. Because he has been poisoned with VX, the most deadly nerve agent known, 10 times more powerful than sarin.
He is Kim Jong-nam, of course, Kim Jong-un’s half brother. North Korea: Murder in the Family (BBC2), a timely This World documentary, picks apart the incident. And it’s absolutely riveting. As everyone who contributes says, it is exactly like something from a spy thriller: the two women who say they were duped into it, thinking they were taking part in a YouTube prank; the secret agents lurking in the background, pulling the strings, then disappearing; the autopsy and Pyongyang’s denials; the international dispute that followed. It would indeed be hard to make up.
And it’s also about the context in which it happened. So we go right back to Jong-nam’s birth, outside of marriage, to Kim Jong-il’s mistress. And his tears at being sent away to boarding school in Geneva. Later, there would be more tears, when he couldn’t get away from North Korea, because he had got a taste of the west, become an international playboy and didn’t much like what was going on at home. That would end up being his downfall, after his baby brother took over from Dad.
Lots of contributions from all the right people, former ambassadors and intelligence officers, chemical weapons experts, etc. But also from a couple of old school friends in Geneva. They didn’t really know or care where Lee – as they called him – was from, but they were dead impressed because he had a driving licence at 15.
Nice detail about Jong-nam’s early life at home, too, where someone would go through the rice sack, grain by grain, picking out any that were irregular or broken, in case Daddy dropped in for tea. Only perfect rice for the supreme leader. I say nice detail, but less so when you consider that outside, the people were starving to death by the million. Or being publicly executed.
It’s not surprising that some contributors – such as a North Korean worker in Malaysia – choose not to be identifiable. He’s probably thinking of checking-in at the airport in future, and his nerves. And, of course, the film has unwittingly taken on extra significance and poignancy over the past days. At the time of writing, Armageddon hasn’t happened, but the story’s moved on and now it’s not just the late Kim Jong-nam who is terrified, and waiting to die …
The end of the world is coming in Valkryien (Channel 4, and now all online). Well, it is according to Leif, a doomsday survivalist type, who thinks that power failure – rather than Kim Jong-un or Don Dumb-ass – is the big threat. That’s why he has a bunker in a disused Oslo underground station.
Ravn, a doctor who once treated Leif for something, has a laboratory down there. Echos of another underground laboratory perhaps; but Ravn’s not cooking crystal meth, he’s messing about with blood and rats (presumably there’s a plentiful supply down there). Something to do with the illness that recently killed his wife perhaps. Or did it? He admitted the coffin was empty at the funeral; is it an underground hospital as well?
Anyway, here’s another patient, who has been shot in the stomach during a botched robbery, of €60m, which is also here. It’s bloody, and tense, subversive, underground in every sense. Ravn is an intriguing character, angry and troubled, full of secrets. Meanwhile, the Oslo T-bane trains rumble by ... Yup, I’m getting on, for the ride.
In an area of west London where the homes of wealthy people are constantly expanding, sprouting vast roof, cellar and garden extensions, one house has shrunk at enormous expense.
At a cost of £2.4m, Sandycombe Lodge, the country home the artist JMW Turner designed for himself, is once again a very small house. The Victorian extensions have been demolished, the bathroom and other modest 20th-century comforts ripped out, the front garden wall replaced with a simple picket fence – and its front door is now open again to visitors.
The Grade II*-listed house, now owned by the Turner’s House Trust, is once again red brick after at least 150 years of it being painted white. When Victorian extensions were removed, Gary Butler, a conservation architect, discovered the original outer walls had smart pointing and no trace of paint or render, so the whole exterior has now been stripped to match.
Turner, a barber’s son from Covent Garden, was an admired and increasingly wealthy artist, when in 1807 he bought two small patches of land in Twickenham. It was then a quiet rural riverside area where many authors and artists he admired, including Alexander Pope, Horace Walpole and the poet James Thomson had country homes.
Turner would eventually be regarded as the greatest of all English landscape painters, but began as an architectural draughtsman, and once told a friend if he could begin life again, he would rather be an architect than a painter. After years of filling pages of his little sketchbooks with ideas, in 1812 he finally built his sanctuary away from the noise and dirt of London.
The house on a sandy slope by a country lane had a drawing room where he probably also painted, one decent sized bedroom, a dining room where he entertained guests including the artist Sir Francis Chantrey, who joined him for fishing trips, and a basement kitchen. There was another very small bedroom, but as the volunteer guides are discovering, the house is cold on a shady summer day – and bitter in winter. His beloved “old dad”, William, who moved in to cook and garden, probably slept in the only warm place – by the hearth in the kitchen.
The original interior colours have been excavated from layers of later paint since Turner sold the property in 1826 – probably because his father was becoming too frail to look after it – and it became a private home, a laundry and, in the second world war, a factory making pilots’ goggles, during which time the heavy machinery almost shook the house to pieces.
The restored walls include a smart imitation marble-block finish for the entrance hall and stairs. This is one of many echoes in the little house – along with the tall narrow arches and stained-glass skylight – of the far grander homes of his friend Sir John Soane, one of the most celebrated architects of his day. There is a busy wallpaper pattern in the bedroom, recreated and hand-printed from a single precious grubby scrap found at the back of a cupboard.
Catherine Parry-Wingfield, who chairs the trust, has been scouring charity shops and adding a few expensive commissions to the sparse furniture, based on scraps of information from letters and memoirs of friends: one child visitor remembered the model ships in glass cases, with seascape backdrops painted by Turner himself. She also assumed that some of the more old-fashioned furniture in the inventory from his London home after his death in 1851 could have come back from Twickenham.
Parry-Wingfield describes the house as Turner’s only three-dimensional work of art. She became involved after a chance conversation in a queue in the local post office with Prof Harold Livermore, who had been struggling since 1947 to keep the house standing. He bequeathed the house and contents, including a valuable set of prints of Turner’s work, but her job for years was to prop up sagging ceilings, put buckets under leaks and sweep up fallen plaster as the house found an ignoble place on the English Heritage register of important buildings at risk.
She believes the trust’s success in raising restoration funds, including selling snowdrops from the garden and holly from a felled tree at a Christmas fair, matched by a major grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund, came just in time to save the house from total collapse.
The coming of the railways transformed Twickenham and St Margaret’s and, 20 years after he sold the house, Turner made a tidy profit selling his last patch of land for the Waterloo to Windsor line. Sandycombe Lodge is now deep in suburbia, but the landscape is surprisingly unchanged. From the artist’s bedroom, the line of his long triangular plot is still clear in the back gardens of the large Victorian and Edwardian houses, and a telescope shows what was visible during his lifetime, including the bends of the Thames and the mansions and meadows of Richmond Hill, which he repeatedly painted.
Parry-Wingfield is now planning to contact all the neighbours and ask if anything from Turner’s day has turned up in their gardens. Livermore was particularly proud of a gold sovereign that he insisted had dropped from one of Turner’s frayed pockets.
She also thinks it is time to start the search for Crop-Ear, Turner’s elderly horse. The artist and his father, small and slightly shabby figures, would have been a familiar sight in the neighbourhood in their carriage drawn by an equally dishevelled horse. When the animal died, Turner is recorded as burying it on his land. Parry-Wingfield thinks Crop-Ear may still lie near the site of his stables, under the large Victorian St Margaret’s pub, though she does draws the line at demolishing the pub to find him.
• Turner’s House is open daily from Wednesday to Sunday
They are banknotes that show cheerful farm workers, enthusiastic soldiers and committed intellectuals as well as foundries, factories, fields, dams, lorries, railways and guns – and they are as aesthetically pleasing as any of the world’s currencies, a new exhibition hopes to show.
The British Museum is to mark the 100th anniversary of the Russian Revolution by staging its first exhibition on communist currency.
There will be posters, medals, bonds, coins and banknotes that show bountiful agricultural productivity, major industrial progress and unmatched military prowess. “I think they are beautiful,” said the curator, Tom Hockenhull. “Especially compared to western notes of the same period, these are far nicer, far prettier.
“Even though the currencies were devalued and people were told they weren’t worth anything, the banknotes, in particular, carry some of the most glorious designs that have ever been committed to paper.”
Helped by money from the Art Fund, Hockenhull has been researching and acquiring communist currency to fill gaps in the museum’s extensive money collections.
Examples of notes on display will include a 1975 100-shilling note from Somalia, which shines light on what the state expected of women. (Everything.) It shows a woman holding a gun, a shovel and a baby. “It is saying to women you can do whatever you want, you can take on all these different roles, but you’ve still got to do all this,” said Hockenhull.
There will be a Yugoslavian banknote featuring the smiling, handsome epitome of a good, hardworking foundry worker, Arif Heralić.
Heralić was part of a group of workers photographed at their blast furnace workplace in Zenica in 1954. His face stood out and the heroic image of the father-of-11 was used on Yugoslavian banknotes for more than two decades. The true story of Heralić is rather less inspiring, in that he struggled with alcoholism and died penniless in 1971.
A 1980 50-yuan note from China shows the people leading the development of a modern China: a farmhand, an industrial worker and an intellectual.
The exhibition will explore how money worked under communism and its central conundrum. “Under communism, under Marxist theory, there should be no money,” said Hockenhull. “It is a social construct, it should not exist. But it is never abolished ... no state ever successfully eliminated it.”
No good Marxist would ever want a state with money but communist economies had it and the notes were so much more interesting than western ones. “It tends to follow – not always – that the most stable economies have the most boring notes, it is just the way it is,” said Hockenhull, pointing out that the US had not updated its dollar since 1962 and that it was not very different from the 1862 design.
“It is only when you have a different political agenda that you change things ... money had a different role under communism and therefore it had to look different.” A form of communism has been brought to about 20 countries around the world since 1917 and all had a currency.
Often the state’s contempt for its currency was overt. The British Museum display will include coins used in East Germany, made from aluminium and therefore absurdly light in weight to show how little value they were.
There will be a banknote from Cuba signed by the national bank president, Ernesto Guevara. He was so appalled at having to sign it he used his nickname, Che, as a way of signifying his contempt for money. “It was his two fingers to capitalism,” said Hockenhull.
Among the posters reproduced for the show will be a USSR advert for the state savings bank that avoids any mention of benefits, such as an interest rate, because the accounts were meant as a benefit to the state, not an individual.
A better way of rewarding people was with medals, which followed Stalin’s statement that the “Soviet people have mastered a new way of measuring the value of people … not in roubles, not in dollars [but] according to their heroic feats”.
One example in the show will be the Mother Heroine of the Soviet Union gold medal given to women who had 10 or more children.
Another will be an Order of Labour Glory medal issued by the USSR in Ukraine in 1985. Recipients of all three classes of the order also received a pension increase, priority on the state housing list, free public transport, a free annual pass to a sanatorium and one first-class round trip flight per year.
Hockenhull, the museum’s curator of modern currency, said it had proved a huge and rewarding subject to research. “It has been fascinating. I’m English – I grew up in a capitalist society. It has been a window into a completely different world and different way of looking at things.”
• Currency of Communism at the British Museum, 19 October-18 March.
Among biblical quotations favoured by Rastafarians comes psalm 118: “The stone that the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner”, a teaching put to song by Bob Marley on 1970’s Corner Stone, and one that neatly frames a life that began in poverty and ended in global superstardom, a rags to riches tale unparalleled in pop. Some 36 years after his death, Marley remains a planetary icon, his image as likely to turn up at a Native American protest as on a Camden Town T-shirt. For millions, he represents an irresistible mix of righteous rebellion, physical and spiritual joy (livity in Rasta speak) and, of course, musical genius.
Marley’s story has been told many times, most notably by the late Timothy White, whose Catch a Fire, as much imaginative construct as conventional biography, best captures the mystique that swirled round the singer. Marley’s mythos owed much to the fevered atmosphere of Jamaica in the late 1970s, when millenarian Rasta prophecy became entangled with a political feud that saw Kingston’s ghettos in near civil war amid allegations of CIA destabilisation. Marlon James’s Booker winner, A Brief History of Seven Killings, centred on the attempted assassination of Marley in 1976, crystallises the era masterfully.
At his HQ in Kingston, where he had “moved the ghetto uptown”, Marley regularly gave away thousands of dollars
Roger Steffens, an LA reggae historian and archivist, offers a more grounded approach in this sprawling but absorbing “oral history”, drawing on interviews with 75 assorted relatives, band members, fellow travellers and lovers; a lifetime’s research. Their accounts, not infrequently contradictory, are effectively marshalled by Steffens, who acts as a reliable narrator.
Among the revelations is the extent of Marley’s deprivation in his early years. Abandoned by his elderly white father, an itinerant government overseer who had gotten a local teenage girl pregnant, Marley grew up first in the rural parish of St Ann, later moving to the newly built “government yards” of Trenchtown, west Kingston.
In both places he found himself pilloried as a mixed blood “red bwoi”. Joe Higgs, a gifted singer who mentored the fledgling Wailers in the arts of harmony vocals, recalls Marley being an “outcast in the house” his mother shared with her partner, the father of Bob’s fellow Wailer, Bunny Livingston. Marley, says Higgs, was marginalised even by his mother and “slept beneath the bottom of the house”. His father’s family, the so-called “white Marleys”, were even more dismissive. In the blunt assessment of Gayle McGarrity, an academic and one of Bob’s confidantes: “They treated him like shit.”
Later to become the hard-nosed triumvirate of Bob, Bunny and Peter Tosh that conquered Jamaica, the Wailers were originally a loose group of teenagers whose female members, Beverley Kelso and Cherry Green, describe the innocence of the group’s earliest incarnation in an optimistic, post-independence Jamaica, an innocence soon burned away by a piratical music business. The group’s first producer, Coxsone Dodd, gave them chump change for their hits. An association with Lee Perry, with whom they cut some of their best work, ended in a violent showdown over unpaid royalties.
Much later, after he had become an international star, Marley would hand out a beating to his manager, Don Taylor, after discovering embezzlement. Violence and corruption, endemic in ghetto life, were never far away. Another manager, Danny Sims, who teamed Bob with soul singer Johnny Nash in the late 1960s, bragged of his mafia connections.
Yet Marley himself remained unfazed by the riches that flowed his way. At his headquarters in Hope Road, Kingston, where he had “moved the ghetto uptown”, he regularly gave away thousands of dollars – his business manager, Colin Leslie, recalls handing out cash and cheques into the small hours. Many of Steffens’s interviewees mention Marley’s generosity, along with his shyness and perfectionist attitude to music making. He was not one for the high life; his preoccupations were music, football, the Bible and beautiful women. His affair with Cindy Breakspeare, a Miss World, put him on the tabloid front pages; his visit to Gabon arose from an affair with the president’s daughter. His 1966 marriage to Rita (who was in his band) became an odd, sibling-like arrangement.
The attempt on Marley’s life, days before he was due to play a Smile Jamaica concert, makes for one of the most compelling chapters here. Of the half-dozen gunmen who attacked Marley’s compound, several were likely known to Bob – such are ghetto runnings – but who paid them remains uncertain. Were they acting for Edward Seaga’s rightwing JLP party or for gangsters calling in the gambling debts of Marley’s close friend, Skill Cole? Or was it (as Marlon James suggests) the CIA? The episode remains blurred. Marley claimed to know, but said only: “Is top secret, dat!”
It was cancer, not bullets, that ended Marley’s life. Again, there are assorted ideas about what induced the cancer that began in a big toe; that it was a childhood accident or a football injury is refuted by Dr Lowell Taubman (“Malignant melanoma does not arise from injuries”), while Christopher Marley, Bob’s cousin, informs Steffens: “Our family has a long history of skin cancer and at least one prior case of melanoma.”
Marley’s passing in May 1981 coincided with a shift in Jamaica’s cultural and political firmament. A few months previously, Edward Seaga had triumphed in a general election that cost 800 lives. The age of computerised reggae, gangster lyricism and ghetto cocaine was dawning. So Much Things to Say (the title of a Marley song) is a fitting tribute to the tumultuous life and complex character of the country’s favourite son.
• So Much Things to Say: The Oral History of Bob Marley by Roger Steffens is published by W W Norton & Co (£20). To order a copy go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Flap, flap, flap, flap – glide. There’s a moment reading Bowland Beth when suddenly you’re airborne, flying above dark moorland, fixing a bird’s eye on the human-dominated world below. That’s exactly David Cobham’s intention – because his new book goes inside the mind of one hen harrier, the much-persecuted bird of prey teetering on the brink of extinction in England.
Thanks to nest cameras, a satellite tag and eyewitness accounts from birdwatchers and scientists who monitored an individual bird called Bowland Beth, Cobham has created an unusually sharp dramatisation of her life – and her death in 2012, after being shot. While there’s plenty of gripping incident, Cobham has rooted it all in fact, checking with zoologists if birds grieve (yes, some do) and avoiding anthropomorphic flights of fancy. “I’ve kept my feet on the ground,” he says with a smile.
Cobham has form when it comes to seeing the world through the eyes of another species. He directed Tarka the Otter, the classic film based on Henry Williamson’s book. Released in 1979, this tale of Tarka being chased to his death by otterhounds raised popular awareness about the plight of the creature, which had been all but exterminated from southern Britain. Otter-hunting was outlawed just as the film was finished and numbers have now bounced back.
Cobham hopes his new book will have a similar impact. “I wanted to dramatise Bowland Beth’s life to get at a different audience: not the pure birder but someone who had not thought of hen harriers before – or the pain a hen harrier must go through when it is shot but not killed cleanly.”
Stephen Murphy, a scientist with the government’s conservation watchdog Natural England, inspired Cobham to write the book. Murphy has studied hen harriers for years and acutely understands the challenge of conserving a bird that preys on grouse chicks. Because grouse-shooting is big business – people pay up to £4,000 a day to shoot large numbers – gamekeepers are under huge pressure to control predators, illegally if necessary.
With a nod to Coronation Street’s Bet Lynch, schoolchildren in the Forest of Bowland named her Bowland Betty, but Murphy and Cobham always called her Beth. In 2012, Cobham just missed seeing her there in Lancashire – she sped away 30 minutes before he arrived – but he was able to follow her progress via Murphy’s satellite data. “She was Super Hen Harrier. Even when Steve was putting the tag on her as a juvenile bird, he could tell she was brighter eyed, with bigger talons and shinier plumage.” She became known for her remarkable trips – dashing from Lancashire to the Scottish Borders, then on to Inverness and back again in the space of a few days. Beth also – fatally – frequented an area of North Yorkshire that Cobham calls “bandit country” because of its suspicious paucity of raptors.
While English grouse moor owners deny they are the cause of the hen harrier’s struggles, ecologists calculate that the country’s uplands should support more than 300 pairs. Last year, just there were just four. Scotland has 460.
As a film-maker and naturalist, Cobham has had a full and fascinating career. He was born into birds: his family reputedly brought the turkey to England in the 16th century and his great-great-great-grandfather was one of the last people to shoot a great bustard. (“Not something I’m very proud of.”) When Cobham went to Stowe school in Buckinghamshire, he kept a tawny owl and peregrine falcon in his room. He was also allowed to own a gun and shoot rabbits. “If you didn’t want to do the junior corps thing, playing soldiers, you could go and fly a goshawk. It did me a lot of good.”
Cobham made what he believes to be the BBC’s first conservation film, Vanishing Hedgerows, about the destructive farming of the 1960s and 70s. Henry Williamson, the author of Tarka the Otter, was its presenter. He told Cobham he had been offered, and had turned down, a derisory £300 from Walt Disney for the Tarka film rights. Williamson asked Cobham if he would adapt the book instead. “Henry said, ‘You’ve got to do it as the sun sees things – without shadows.’” Cobham followed his instructions, devoting 18 months to a beautiful, yet brutally realistic, film.
The key was his leading man: Tarka. A baby otter called Spade was procured from the Otter Trust. They could film for only two hours at a stretch before Spade would curl up asleep in someone’s lap, but the creature was a biddable star. “It was amazing what it would do,” remembers Cobham. He had allowed two days to film a sequence in which Tarka hides from the hounds in a waterwheel – but Spade nailed it in two hours.
After the success of Tarka, Cobham was contacted by a teacher who’d heard the film-maker had some baby barn owls left over after filming. He requested a couple for a bird-obsessed pupil. Cobham duly obliged and the teenager, one Chris Packham, was delighted. Cobham still knows Packham, who would go on to present Springwatch on the BBC.
The bear's keeper lined a pipe with tobacco and the creature sat there in a chair smoking ​it
Cobham, who was born in Yorkshire in 1930, has worked with everyone from Orson Welles to Peter Ustinov (“He wasn’t very pleasant,” says Cobham, who is generally gentlemanly to a fault about even his harshest critics). He met his wife, Liza Goddard, when she played a journalist in his adaptation of Brendon Chase, a rollicking tale of runaway kids turning feral.
The never-work-with-children-or-animals adage certainly applied to Brendon Chase. One child had his appendix out a week before filming and couldn’t run. Cobham was more confident about casting a bear after travelling to Coventry zoo to meet one. “The door opened and this bear walked in and sat down on the chair opposite me. When its keeper came in, he lined a pipe with tobacco and the bear sat there smoking it. I knew the bear was going to be OK.”
On the final day of filming, however, the bear escaped into the New Forest. Minutes later, Cobham was approached by two children from an orienteering group. Panic-stricken, he drove about in a minibus rounding up the young orienteers. Some time later, the bear was found – asleep in a dried-up stream.
Cobham has now retired from film-making, lives in Norfolk, and concentrates on writing. His next book will be a history of falconry, interspersed with his own memories of training a goshawk just after he had graduated.
We live in a golden age of natural history documentaries, but no one makes natural history dramas like Cobham did. Why? “Because it’s jolly hard work,” he laughs. “And perhaps people don’t like live animals being used in films.” What about a film version of Bowland Beth? “I wouldn’t do it,” smiles Cobham, “but somebody could have a go.”
• Bowland Beth by David Cobham is published by William Collins, priced £16.99. It is available from the Guardian Bookshop for £14.44.
Making a virtue out of necessity, I’d call it – except that there’s nothing virtuous about Gein’s Family Giftshop, a sketch group who’ve cornered the market in dark, offbeat humour. Usually a trio on stage (Gein number four, the standup Kiri Pritchard-McLean, directs), they’re down a permanent member this year, after James Meehan pulled out on the eve of the fringe. What others might consider an obstacle, Gein’s exploit as an opportunity for more bad-taste humour, as the last two standing, Ed Easton and Kath Hughes, send up their own isolation and kick bitchily downwards at the ringer they’ve brought in to deputise for their absent friend.
For me, after seeing several shows in which supposed behind-the-scenes strife is very broadly caricatured, this is an object lesson in how to stage mutual rancour for laughs. They play it straight, basically – or the kind of straight that looks straight until you turn it in the light and spot a nasty kink. The way Easton and Hughes bully the blank-faced incomer standing in for Meehan is ridiculous and sinister in equal measure. Is it a joke or should we be making an intervention? Adam Rowley underplays the victim beautifully as his bosses mock his poshness, his drama school training, his incorrect movement around the stage.
Whether that’s the plot to Gein’s Volume 3, or a subplot to the fluid stream of sketches that ostensibly form the show, is up to you. Gein’s are sketch purists, apparently, never using lights, sound, or accents. So it’s intriguingly unclear where sketches begin and end and when we’re back in the moment, watching simpering Easton and grumpy Hughes play “who would you rather fuck?” with the audience, strangle one another in the name of jewellery, or shed clothes dementedly under siege from an imaginary bee. Towards the end of the show, structural tricksiness is added to the mix, which feels like a bonus.
For all that they regularly inspire League of Gentlemen comparisons, the show has a flavour all of its own thanks to Easton’s gangly excitability, Hughes’s chippiness, and all those weird are-they-real? resentments coursing across the stage. There’s a wonderful piece of physical comedy in Easton’s exaggerated disgust at having to perform a stage kiss. In the end, the pretence that they’re depressed, maladroit and in career freefall is what makes them so effective, and such a contrast to the puppyish eagerness-to-please elsewhere at the fringe. Depleted in numbers they may be, but this is Gein’s most memorable show yet.
•At Pleasance Courtyard, Edinburgh, until 28 Aug. Box office: 0131-226 0000.
With Deal or No Deal now in the dream factory in the sky, Noel Edmonds returns to our screens with a new, and even more illogical, concept. The aim of the game is for contestants to work out which of three items is the cheapest, while surrounded by fake “general store” staff. With bizarre innuendo, a problematic eastern European character and not-so-subtle mentions of Noel’s former glory, it’s either genius or bonkers. Hannah J Davies
Spotted by a casting agent three years ago while he was still at school, Connor Newall from Glasgow is living the dream, flitting between Europe and New York on assignments and mingling with celebrities in a world far removed from the shipyards or the army, whom he once considered potential employers. This doc follows his hectic schedule as one of the most successful Scottish models of all time. Can he survive the ordeal? Ali Catterall
In this new series, Adnan Sarwar and Babita Sharma travel the length of the India-Pakistan border to meet the people who live along this buffer zone, still hotly disputed 70 years after partition. We begin in Adipur, once a camp for Hindu refugees forced to flee for their lives from the new Muslim state of Pakistan. Today it is, of all things, a haven for Charlie Chaplin imitators. We also get a taste of the metropolis of Karachi. David Stubbs
Our appetite for air travel knows no limits, but there hasn’t been a parallel surge in the number of Brits training to be pilots. Cue this brand-building doc, following the budget airline’s drive to recruit more joystick-wagglers, women especially. Rookies are observed learning in classrooms, practising in simulators and, finally, controlling an aircraft full of passengers for the first time. There’s a business-class narrator, at least: Stephen Fry. Jack Seale
In the mid-70s, Iceland was a close-knit country in key respects. Crime was rare, so when two men vanished in 1974 and foul play was suspected, there was huge pressure on the authorities. What followed, as this doc recounts, was a shocking miscarriage of justice as six suspects were arrested and confessed to murder. The first-hand testimony of Erla Bolladóttir, held in solitary confinement for 135 days, is especially harrowing. Jonathan Wright
Debut of a new series on Korean cuisine that manages to conform to roughly every cliche of both the cookery programme and the travelogue: crashingly obvious pun in the title, presenter “on a journey”, etc. In this episode, Gizzi visits South Korea’s capital – crowded, apparently, with lots of tech companies – to learn, and then attempt her own take on, the fundamentals of Korean cooking. In fairness, the food does all look marvellous. Andrew Mueller
For those firmly on the hook of season seven, we may discover tonight whether a certain gent survived his poorly judged run-in with Daenerys and Drogon following last week’s heart-thumping dust-up on the Roseroad. However, when someone disappears into the inky depths, there’s always a chance that they’ll bob up to the surface again downstream. Arya managed it. Either way, the stakes have been well and truly raised. Ben Arnold
All Is Lost (JC Chandor, 2013) 9pm, Film4
Or what could be the Old Man and the Sea: Chandor’s relentlessly taut and gripping drama stars Robert Redford as a veteran, unnamed sailor, alone on a sinking boat on the ocean. It’s as minimalist as can be – we don’t know why he’s there – and Redford is superb, though near-silent, as the embattled wanderer who struggles to overcome storm and setbacks, one damn thing after another, that bring him ever closer to the end. Utterly riveting.
Thelma & Louise (Ridley Scott, 1991) 9pm, Sony Movie Channel
The road movie that found a new gear, putting two devil-may-care women in the driving seat. Waitress Susan Sarandon and neglected wife Geena Davis head off on a weekend jaunt that quickly swerves out of control when they kill a rapist. The tone remains upbeat, often funny, but from here on they’re on a road to nowhere.
ATP Masters Tennis: Western and Southern Open 4pm, Sky Sports Main Event. Day one of the tournament in Cincinnati.
WTA Tennis: Cincinnati 4pm, BT Sport 1 Women’s heats of the above tournament.
Speedway: Somerset v Leicester 7.30pm, BT Sport 2. Somerset Rebels host Leicester Lions in the SGB Premiership at the Oaktree Arena.
The Rev Gilbert White was that now extinct species, the unmarried Oxbridge don in holy orders. A lifelong curate and a fellow of Oriel College, White devoted himself to observing flora and fauna at large in the natural world, a sequence of observations for which he became world famous.
In 1755, after the death of his father, he returned to the family home in Selborne, settling for comfortable obscurity in a remote Hampshire village, an enviable career move. On the face of it, the passage of his declining years would be tranquil and serene, with no greater vicissitudes than bad weather or poor harvests.
However, around 1767, he got into correspondence, first with Thomas Pennant, a prominent zoologist, and then with Daines Barrington, another important British naturalist. His exchanges with these men would form the basis of his Natural History, a compilation published in the year of the French Revolution. There could scarcely have been a more stark contrast between the timeless, resilient stability of English country life and the bloody metropolitan dramas of France. Where Rousseau and Robespierre championed the rights of man, White celebrated the earthworm, “a small and despicable link in the chain of nature”, which, if lost “would make a lamentable chasm”.
It’s claimed that White’s Natural History is the fourth most-published book in the English language, after the Bible, Shakespeare and Bunyan, and it has certainly been in print since first publication, while the benign White himself is now recognised equally as a great stylist and a pioneer ecologist. His work, in literature and in nature studies, coincides with a pivotal moment in the reign of George III when zoology and botany were at the cutting edge of scientific inquiry. The young Charles Darwin would grow up with White’s Antiquities of Selborne at his side – as a guide, philosopher and friend.
White’s book reveals him to have been a man of profound general knowledge, with an appetite for medieval civilisation that was far in advance of his times. He was also a beady-eyed student of nature. As many critics have noticed, the zoology and botany of the Natural History replaced the fabulous folklore and bizarre traditions of previous countryside writers, with White’s scrupulous observations and beautifully expressed summaries:
“The titmouse, which early in February begins to make two quaint notes, like the whetting of a saw, is the marsh titmouse: the great titmouse sings with three cheerful joyous notes, and begins about the same time.”
White’s specificity is at once magisterial and enchanting, for example, in this report on the survival instincts of the squirrel and the nut-hatch:
“There are three creatures, the squirrel, the field-mouse, and the bird called the nut-hatch (Sitta Europaea), which live much on hazel-nuts; and yet they open them each in a different way. The first, after rasping off the small end, splits the shell in two with his long fore-teeth, as a man does with his knife; the second nibbles a hole with his teeth, so regular as if drilled with a wimble, and yet so small that one would wonder how the kernel can be extracted through it; while the last picks an irregular ragged hole with its bill; but as this artist has no paws to hold the nut firm while he pierces it, like an adroit workman, he fixes it, as it were in a vice, in some cleft of a tree.”
White’s letters are full of such felicities, uniting into an unforgettable portrait of country life that’s also the record of a new kind of zoology, scientific, precise and based on the steady accumulation of detail – the fruit of a quiet life conducted by a leisured, well-to-do, middle-aged gentleman of cultivated tastes and habits, happily cut off from the noise and irritation of urban, industrial life. As such, he is the indispensable precursor to those great Victorians who would transform our ideas about life on Earth, especially in the undergrowth – Lyell, Spencer, Huxley and Darwin.
Charm is a dangerous literary gift, but White’s work is conspicuous for its philosophical equanimity and moderate spirit. As a writer, he is the reader’s lovable companion, with whom it’s not impossible to imagine a conversation about cobwebs, the common rush (Juncus effusus), brown owls, stinking hellebore (Helleborus foetidus) or possibly the vernal migration of the ring ouzel.
As a garrulous country parson, White is comparable in the degree of self-revelation to the infinitely more worldly (even corrupt) figure of James Boswell (no 77 in this series). He offers a similar kind of colloquial familiarity, but with this difference. Where Boswell has his eye firmly on the judgment of posterity, and on his readers’ approval of his “sensibility” (a key Augustan English requirement), White wants only to celebrate the beautiful beech woods of his village, its rooks and magpies and, of course, the weather. Thus goes White’s immortal summary of that revolutionary year, 1789:
“To January 13, hard frost. To the end of the month, mild, with showers. To the end of February, frequent rain, with snow showers and heavy gales of wind. To 13th March, hard frost, with snow. To April, heavy rain, with frost and snow and sleet. To the end of April, dark, cold weather, with frequent rains. To June 9, warm spring weather, with brisk winds and frequent showers. From June 4 to the end of July, warm, with much rain. To August 29, hot, dry, sultry weather. To September 11, mild, with frequent showers. To the end of September, fine autumnal weather, with occasional showers. To November 17, heavy rain, with violent gales of wind. To December 18, mild, dry weather, with a few showers. To the end of the year, rain and wind.”
Plus ça change, plus c’est la même chose.
“In the court of Norton farm-house, a manor-farm to the north-west of the village, on the white malm, stood within these twenty years a broadleaved elm, or wych hazel, ulmus folio latissimo scabro of Ray, which, though it had lost a considerable leading bough in the great storm in the year 1703, equal to a moderate tree, yet, when felled, contained eight loads of timber; and, being too bulky for a carriage, was sawn off at seven feet above the butt, where it measured near eight feet in the diameter.”
Izaak Walton: The Compleat Angler (1653)
Charles Darwin: The Voyage of the Beagle (1839)
Richard Mabey: The Cabaret of Plants (2015)
• The Natural History and Antiquities of Selborne by Gilbert White is published by Penguin (£7.99). To order a copy for £6.79 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Melissa George returns to Australian screens to star as a radiant, siren-like, moon-eyed florist in a visually rich and intensely styled drama that shimmers with stagey, hipster glamour. In The Butterfly Tree, her character Evelyn, a former burlesque dancer, arrives like Blanche DuBois, beautiful and moth-like with a chequered past and an airy demeanour; clearly a lost soul who prefers idealism over realism and is at the mercy of a brutal world.
The centrepiece location in the film, the first feature from long-time short-film writer/director Priscilla Cameron, is a greenhouse which was purpose built for the shoot in Mount Tambourine, Queensland. In an early scene, Evelyn welcomes 13-year-old Fin (Ed Oxenbould from Paper Planes) into her ambrosial plant-filled premises, beckoning him to gaze closely into blooming flowers.
It’s as if the film itself takes cues from this moment, cinematographer Jason Hargreaves bathing the frame in rich, wet, gluggy colours. The air and aroma of The Butterfly Tree is slushy and thick, so thick you could cut it with a knife.
Like an angel parachuting into a young boy’s dreams, Evelyn offers Fin a job helping out in the shop, which he of course accepts without equivocation. Fin is mourning the death of his mother in the not-too-distant past.
He catches butterflies in her honour and has erected a secret shrine-like place of remembrance in the trunk of a large tree in the woods. Fin’s desperate longing for her, combined with the onset of puberty, makes Evelyn – through no fault of her own – a dangerous combination of maternal and sexual desire. The child is very much finding himself.
His father, on the other hand, appears to be heading towards a cliff. Al (Ewen Leslie, recently so good in The Daughter) is a schoolteacher having an affair with one of his students. She is Shelley, played by Sophie Lowe, who continues a run of impressive, difficult performances, inhabiting complicated objects of desire – including in 2009’s Beautiful Kate and TV shows The Beautiful Lie and The Slap.
Al attempts to apply the brakes to their relationship, at the same time an obsessive Shelley arrives in his office with cock rings and barely disguised blackmail threats. Which is to say: she’s not backing off.
Like his son, Al becomes entranced by the blithe florist, forming the third side of a love triangle. At first blush Evelyn appears to be living the life of Riley, smoking reefers and gliding around her shop on rollerskates, posing for pictures taken using a retro wind-up camera. But there is a sadness in her eyes, and a DuBois-esque delicacy in her swagger and temperament, suggesting deep wounds and a troubled private life.
Evelyn is played with requisite, multi-layered charm and sophistication by Melissa George, the showiest but most gentle of the film’s four (adding Leslie, Lowe and Oxenbould) excellent performances. For the men she is a romantic will-o’-the-wisp type figure, who cannot possibly live up to hopes projected on to her: their expectations that she will be a panacea for their woes – or at least a light to lead them out of the darkness of their lives.
The Butterfly Tree is ultimately about what happens when that illusion is pricked. The only person capable of saving you, Cameron appears to suggest, is yourself, and a self-rescue can only extend so far – certainly no further, as the final act unsubtly suggests, than the boundaries of time or limitations of the body. The final stretch of Cameron’s screenplay lurches viewers into a different emotional direction, less about bringing dramas to a head than revealing a deep, context-shifting secret.
But the unfolding of it doesn’t quite sit right. The director is so diligent in crafting organic-feeling drama, only to double down by treating a character-based revelation in the manner of a surprise twist. If one feels moved, one also feels a little played, and some goodwill is squandered. The storyline is ambitious but doesn’t quite hang together.
The scale of The Butterfly Tree’s budget (a few million dollars) doesn’t allow for Luhrmann-esque lushness, though Cameron stretches her limited resources to excellent effect. Elements of magical realism give her aesthetic a kind of florid, splashy unpredictability. The film is always pretty and sometimes sumptuous to look at.
The chic-rustic, colour-splotched look is also informed by what Cameron omits: there is, for example, nary a smartphone or computer in sight. The $64,000 question is, what can she do with a bigger budget and a more satisfying screenplay? The possibilities are exciting.
More than two centuries after readers first met them, Elizabeth and Darcy have yet to grow old. Their story has inspired erotic spinoffs, murder mysteries and a retelling from the servants’ point of view. The much-loved and mostly faithful 1995 Andrew Davies screen adaptation, starring Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth, helped birth Bridget Jones’s Diary. Then came the “Hollywood-meets-Bollywood” movie Bride and Prejudice and even a genre mashup with zombie hordes menacing Pemberley.
This last was more apt than it sounds, and not only because Andrea Leadsom briefly resurrected Jane Austen last month, the bicentenary of her death, describing her as one of “our greatest living authors”. Pride and Prejudice is the novel that simply will not die. Twenty million copies on, Mr Darcy has become so synonymous with the romantic hero that when researchers found a pheromone in male mouse urine irresistible to female mice, they named it “darcin”.
Even that indignity has not diminished his allure. So the announcement this month of yet another TV adaptation was entirely predictable. So too was the accompanying reassurance that the novel is “less bonnet-y” than people imagine. One oddity is that those rejecting accusations of “smallness” and gentility keep picking Austen’s best-loved book over harsher works such as Mansfield Park or Persuasion. Another is their fixation on clothes-as-shorthand, promising us mud on the petticoats and Mr Darcy in a wet shirt – though the author wrote a great deal more about money than muslin.
It does not take an especially careful reader to discern the underlying message: distaste for the very people they are commissioned to attract. Much as Austen’s heroes save her heroines from poverty or reliance on grim relations, so respectable admirers must rescue the author from the Janeites. This strain has strengthened in reaction to “Austen-inspired scented candles” and paint-by-numbers novels like The Jane Austen Book Club. But it is evident much further back, in the grudging praise of Henry James, whose condescension is so much more deadly than Mark Twain’s desire to dig her up and beat her over the skull with her own shinbone.
No one imagines that Shakespearmints or the Gnomeo and Juliet movie tell us anything useful about the Bard. There is more than a tinge of sexism and snobbery in the idea that Austen’s enduring popularity is evidence of something wrong rather than something right – it is, to be blunt, the sense that she is read by too many women, or at least the wrong kind of women. It’s manifested, equally, in the implication that she must be OK because Winston Churchill and Harold Macmillan turned to her in moments of darkness.
Austen herself deemed Pride and Prejudice “rather too light and bright and sparkling”; to read it alongside other works does her more justice. She is merciless in dissecting human folly, of course, but also in her honesty. Her heroines often face grim choices, only lightly concealed by the gallantry and their happy endings. She writes about the bleakness of ill-matched marriages, and the pain of living with the knowledge that you have made a terrible mistake. It is not a cosy environment, merely a contained one. Other writers, on a broader canvas, have shown us much less of the world than we see on what she termed her “little bit (two inches wide) of ivory”. There is absolutely no need to apologise for Austen.
I agree with Simon Jenkins (So what if old masters ‘cheated’. It’s how beautiful the art is that matters, 10 August) that artists’ “authenticity” should not be doubted because they used devices such as the camera obscura. Painters have always employed any mechanical means available to get a composition “right”, from the mathematically exact perspective lines of Renaissance workshops to Van Gogh’s use of a gridded frame for painting boats on the seashore.
However, the apparent lack of underdrawing in Vermeer’s work is not a mystery or a secure argument for his use of the camera obscura, since neither x-ray nor infrared detects all drawing materials. His The Art of Painting depicts an artist working on a canvas primed with a warm grey – a ground colour commonly noted underneath his own paintings. This hints at a light drawing, perhaps done with chalk, ochres or organic pigments, none of which are detectable by x-ray or infrared.
Vermeer would certainly have been aware of the camera obscura, and may have used one, but there is more telling evidence of compositional tricks in his paintings. Pinholes have been found at the vanishing point in 13 of his paintings (the Vermeer sold at Sotheby’s makes 14). String tied to a pin in the canvas allowed the artist to mark out the perspective lines, probably chalking the line or drawing alongside it – another “cheating” device, perhaps.Libby SheldonPainting materials historian, University College London
• I enjoyed seeing the portrait award paintings at the National Portrait Gallery. However, I wonder about the criteria for winning a prize. All four winners are men, two of the paintings feature women’s breasts, and another was of a woman identified as being pregnant. The key to winning this year was to be a man painting a sexualised woman. Susan SamuelsonBelmont, Massachusetts
• Join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com
• Read more Guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters
When the former first minister of Scotland and now ex-MP Alex Salmond announced this last-minute fringe run, it sold out faster than you can say “independence in Europe”. Perhaps punters were seduced by the promise of (as the title runs) “Alex Salmond ... Unleashed”. He’s been promising to kiss and tell, hinting on the Today programme at a story involving – of all things – sado-masochism and Kirsty Wark. Sure enough, the show begins (after a rousing reception from the crowd) with Salmond theatrically removing his tie. He’s buttoned up no more, and we buckle up for juicy gossip from behind the scenes of Scottish and UK politics.
But that’s not what we get. Instead, Unleashed is an hour of music, clubbable chat with a special guest, and some reflections on Scotland’s historical ties to Europe. (Each show will have a different theme.) Today’s visitor, greeted with surprise by the crowd, is the “Brexit bulldog”, David Davis – to whom we have to be nice, Salmond instructs us, because they’re pals. If we hadn’t been told, we’d guess from the chummy conversation that follows. Two old guys, two upholstered leather armchairs: think gentleman’s club and you wouldn’t be wide of the mark.
It’s not that Salmond isn’t a capable entertainer. From the opening chat with his onstage band, it’s clear he has adept comic timing, and his best questions to Davis (“You’re telling us Michael Gove is right behind you. How does that make you feel?”) recall Mrs Merton at her finest. The problem is that he gives Davis such an easy ride. The manifest risks of Brexit go unexplored – but neither is Davis induced to reveal anything unexpected about his personal or professional life. He emerges as a good egg (who wouldn’t under this friendly a line of questioning?), with a neat quip about the ambiguity of the phrase “transition period”, and a story about his army misdemeanours – the latter in response to the same question that got Theresa May blathering about fields of wheat.
That’s one of several queries posed by the audience, which have been screened here to weed out anything remotely combative. “Can you share with us, Alex, any anecdotes about meeting Sean Connery?” runs one. Salmond may consider himself unleashed, but he’s not letting his audience off the chain.
The show – produced by his SNP colleague Tasmina Ahmed-Sheikh – still passes a pleasant enough hour: Salmond is convivial company, and enjoys a laugh at his own expense. There are tunes and interventions from the band, and the standup Janey Godley – bringing her YouTube party-piece to the stage – mutes a Theresa May video clip and supplies a broad Scots voiceover. Salmond and Davis swap tips on how to deal with a grilling from Jeremy Paxman.
But it doesn’t do what it says on the tin. Agree with it or not (and I do), Salmond’s homily about Scotland’s ancient links to Europe – with which the show is bookended – comes across a little pious. And feebly argued: with such flimsy and nationalistic historical arguments, leaving the EU could be equally well justified. The show ends with an auction, the winner of which gets to spend the rest of the afternoon with Salmond and Davis over champagne and scones at a nearby hotel. Maybe then, Salmond will be truly unleashed. Here, he really isn’t.
It is a Wednesday night in a London pub and a group are about to play their first ever gig. It doesn’t begin well. Some members start singing the wrong song, the keyboard won’t work properly and they don’t all finish at the same time.
But then something happens: the audience claps. The four singers look stunned and overwhelmed, and then Teleza Finias, the band’s only woman, starts jumping up and down with joy. Amidu Didas, a lanky singer in a woolly Arsenal hat, shakes his arms in celebration, while Elias Sostines and Riziki Julius, the other two members, shout, “Tanzania! Tanzania! Tanzania!” over and over, making the crowd shout it back.
The four musicians are members of the 18-strong Tanzania Albinism Collective, and this is not only the first time they have performed on a stage – it is the first time they have been out of their country. It is also definitely the first time they have been shown appreciation by 100 random foreigners. The collective, who belong to one of the world’s most oppressed groups of people, are the team behind an emotional and genre-defying album, White African Power.
TAC come from Ukerewe, Africa’s largest inland island, reached by a four-hour boat ride across Lake Victoria. Tanzania has the world’s largest population of people with albinism – the genetic condition that affects a person’s ability to produce melanin, leaving their skin, hair and eyes pigment-free and at the mercy of the sun. Around one in every 1,400 people in the country has the condition (compared with 1 in 18,000 globally), and many die of skin cancer before they reach 40. Despite its prevalence, discrimination is common, especially in rural areas. It is believed that people with albinism are cursed and bring bad luck. They are frequently ostracised.
“I’m so, so, so, so, so happy,” says Teleza, 31, through an interpreter. “I never thought there would be a day when I would sing and people would actually listen to me. When I was born, my father said I wasn’t his daughter.” Her mother, she says, would have nothing to do with her either, so Teleza was raised by her grandparents, who were so embarrassed by her condition they didn’t let her go to school. “I never even sang in church,” she says. “No one wanted me there.”
Much of the time Teleza lived in fear for her life – with good reason. Between 2006 and 2015, 76 Tanzanians with albinism were murdered, probably for their body parts to be sold to witchdoctors. At least another 65 were attacked. A government crackdown seems to have stopped that, but when Teleza goes out people still call her “deal”, meaning money.
The other TAC members have similar stories. “People wouldn’t let me get water from the wells,” says Elias. “They said if I used them, they would get my condition.” Elias never had an opportunity to sing. Amidu is the only one of the four who had tried to be a musician, even going to the island’s music studio to record a song. He was told to leave.
The collective were brought to Britain by Ian Brennan, a music producer who has worked with Tuareg rockers Tinariwen and other marginalised groups, such as Malawian prisoners and the band Khmer Rouge Survivors. Last summer, he visited Ukerewe to lead a songwriting workshop for people with albinism. It was run by the British charity Standing Voice.
At first, things didn’t look hopeful. Brennan had sent a guitar, bass and keyboard to the community in advance, in the hope the group might start writing songs without him. But when he arrived, the instruments were untouched, and he learned that – aside from one person who was a great guitar player – none of the group had any musical experience.
“The community had been shut down musically,” says Brennan, who tackled their reticence to play by getting everyone to touch and bash the instruments, adding that they could take one home if they came back with a song the next morning. They all did. “It was just so natural,” Teleza says. “I started to write and the words came. I didn’t even need to think.”
“It wasn’t difficult,” adds Elias. “I was singing about all the things in my life. It made me feel like a new person.”
Brennan turned the group’s 25 best songs, most barely a minute long, into White African Power, as raw a debut album as could be imagined. “We knew we were going to record stuff, but we go into every project prepared not to release anything. That’s the only ethical way. I don’t think a good story is enough. But what they’ve done is incredible. It’s totally non-commercial, but it’s original and their voices are incredibly true.”
The album swings wildly – from moments of beauty to blasts of anger, from big group numbers with people grabbing whatever is to hand for percussion (one features a rainwater barrel being hit by a sledgehammer) to dance songs where someone has clearly found the keyboard’s demo button and simply sung over the top. There is often a stark contrast between the song titles – Stop the Murders, Stigma Everywhere – and the fun of the music.
Three days after the London concert, TAC play Womad, the world music festival in Wiltshire. This time they are in front of several hundred people, amid trees and tents offering spoon-making workshops and Indian head massages. There is no nervousness, no keyboard malfunctions, no missed cues. Instead, the four make a dramatic entrance in huge red cloaks, chanting, before throwing them off one by one. They clamber into the crowd and try to get people to chant along in their local dialects. They dance until they are breathless. They get children up on stage. They throw everything at it. Brennan hovers to one side, leading the clapping and introducing some numbers whose harrowing lyrics belie the collective’s happiness to be there.
Teleza says the experience has already changed her. “I’ve not gained anything like money, but the collective has made me feel more confident. And I am starting to have a little bit of a relationship with my mum. That’s the first time.” She smiles broadly and says she now wants Tanzanians to hear her songs. “Hear them – and understand why I’m singing.”
• White African Power is out from Six Degrees Records and available on Spotify.
Joy has swept through civilisation in the past fortnight – or at least through the arts and culture corner of the London-based media that thinks of itself as the arbiter of civilisation. First, the much-loved BBC Radio 4 arts show Saturday Review, marked for the chop after nearly two decades, got a last-minute reprieve from the station’s controller, Gwyneth Williams. Then it was announced that Front Row, the same network’s flagship weekday arts show, has been given a short-run TV version on BBC2, starting next month. It’ll have a variety of presenters, including the excellent Nikki Bedi.
I raise a glass of prosecco to all of it, and to the ability of critics – their responsibility, indeed – to work through the good, the bad and the ugly releases of the week and put them into perspective. We are all suffering from consumer dyspepsia at the sheer amount of unfiltered material out there in the world. It’s impossible to keep track of, let alone explore, every new TV series, film, album, book, exhibition or theatre and performance piece. You find out about new work online, but the online world flattens, accelerates and decontextualises cultural products and drains new releases of any sense of momentum, occasion, shared reception or the deep contemplation and absorption they require.
I don’t want to have to rely on some innate zeitgeisty skill of my own to intuitively trend-forecast or buzz-catch the vibes, and figure out the next TV phenomenon to rear out of the swamp and be cool for two seconds before being replaced by something else. Despite newspapers cutting their reviews, I want to read – or hear, or watch – detailed, balanced and calm criticism. I don’t need little icons or star ratings to guide me towards certain things; Mozart never sat at his harpsichord and said: “I hope this symphony gets at least three stars out of five, and a yellow emoji-face with love hearts for eyes.”
Discursive arts programmes are returning to prominence as the backlash grows against the sheer speed and volume of online release and reaction. People crave quality discussion, classic un-gimmicky formats, and broadcasters who have sincerely and patiently spent a week going through the best art, film and theatre.
Of course, there’s still room for improvement on even the best of these programmes. I’d like to see equal numbers of female and male critics, as well as creators of all ages and colours featured in these programmes. I also want to see a real diversity of work reviewed across the board, so the next era of arts reviewing doesn’t simply recreate another white, male, western artistic canon, or promote another white, male generation of critics and presenters.
I am not a BBC staffer or contracted worker, and am not involved with the new Front Row, on radio or TV, so have no vested interest in cheering its expansion. But – full disclosure – I’ve been a regular pundit on such shows for many years – including Newsnight Review (later The Review Show) – which has been missing from our screens for three years now.
Mozart never sat at his harpsichord and said, I hope this symphony gets a yellow emoji-face with love hearts for eyes
So I know what I’m talking about. And let me say that being one of the metropolitan elite is just super. Everything the philistines say about it is true: you spend Monday at a film screening, Tuesday interviewing a designer, Wednesday at the theatre and Thursday at a gallery. And on Friday you go to a radio or TV studio full of people who are either really nice or just nice to your face (I’m not fussy), and you chat it out in a structured way, with cordiality, humour and mutual respect – despite your differences of opinion. It’s a privilege, a joy and a skill in itself.
At the very least, we critics provide a handy target for the ire of the viewing nation. As a fan of Newsnight Review said to me recently: “I used to love that show! I hated you all so much. We used to shout abuse at the screen. We watched it every week. I disagreed with every single thing you said. It was amazing! I miss it.”
• Bidisha is a broadcaster, critic and journalist for the BBC, Channel 4 and Sky
It’s 7.15am and Vanessa Feltz is talking. Of course she’s talking. Feltz is always talking. She’s on the radio, challenging the deputy leader of Southwark council, which has just announced it will “decant” residents from its tower blocks because of the risk of a gas explosion. “You’ve chosen a very odd verb here, haven’t you? To decant residents. People know the word decant when it’s appended to a decanter which normally has sherry or brandy in it. I don’t understand the word decant as applied to human beings, and I don’t think the human beings it refers to do either. They don’t know if you’re going to pour them all out at once as you would with a large tumbler of brandy or whether you’re going to pour a drop into a shot glass …”
It’s Feltz at her best – passionate, clever, combative. She makes her point effectively – the council needs to learn how to talk human. Which is something she has always done well. Feltz can talk for England on any subject – from the political to the poetic (she loves to fling a verse of Pope at us), the inane (nothing like a good debate about pantaloons), the domestic (marmalade and its many virtues), the daft/offensive (are white girls more attractive than black girls or vice versa?) and the surreal (asking a bemused Madonna whether, like Feltz, she had struggled with breastfeeding and stopped strangers in the street to see if they would help her baby latch on to the nipple).
Feltz used to talk on television five days a week until she got caught up in a scandal (researchers had hired actors as “guests” without her knowledge) and The Vanessa Show was pulled. Now she talks on radio five days a week – 5am–6.30am on Radio 2’s Early Breakfast, then she runs across the road to a different studio and is back on air for BBC Radio London from 7am-10am. Sometimes she also stands in for Jeremy Vine on Radio 2 (12pm-2pm).
In the past few weeks, Feltz has also been the subject of much talk. There was the BBC salary controversy (she earns between £350,000 and £399,000, which makes her the BBC’s highest-paid female radio presenter but still considerably lower paid than her male radio counterparts); a disgusting Sunday Times article suggesting that Feltz and Claudia Winkleman were well rewarded by the BBC because they were Jewish; an embarrassing leaked email from her Radio London boss David Robey in which he said “it’s a constant battle to get her to suit the pace of breakfast” and that the show “lacked personality”; and astonishingly, on the same day, vindication in the form of record-breaking figures.
Today she is accentuating the positive. We meet at a bar near the BBC, and she says things could not be better. “On a personal note, life is terrific and triumphant because I’ve just scored record Rajars [audience figures] of all time for the Breakfast Show on Radio London and also for Early Breakfast on Radio 2. Everywhere I go, everyone says: ‘Brilliant! Congratulations!’ So I feel like I’m at a great big bar mitzvah where everyone’s shaking my hand and giving me a kiss and a sugared almond and a pat on the head.”
How does she reconcile the record-breaking figures with the critical leaked email? “Did you actually read it?” she says defensively. Feltz is quick to point out that far from saying she lacked personality, as has been reported, the email suggested the show had not yet made the most of her personality. “It was expressing concern that it was a restrictive format because it was so heavy on news and maybe it wasn’t reflecting my personality. This is my boss, who effectively discovered me in radio. David Robey is my hero and my mentor and my great champion so he would never dream of thinking, even in his most private moments, of saying Vanessa lacks personality.” She reminds me that in the past she has been accused of having too much personality, and producers have asked her to rein it in.
As for BBC salaries over £150,000 being made public, she thinks it’s ridiculous. “When I worked in Barratts shoe shop in Oxford Street, I certainly didn’t discuss with the other sales assistants how much are you being paid, and nobody ever does in this country and that is one of the nicest things about it. I just don’t see how it’s enlightened anybody. What were they hoping to discover as a result? Because there is no comparison. Nobody knows, for example, how much people at ITV get paid. It’s utterly pointless. It’s like asking what does everybody get paid at McDonald’s without asking Burger King. It would have been just as revelatory if they had said six people earn over this, 12 people over that. And of course it provoked an unpredictable story. Everybody thought it was going to be ‘We’re appalled by the astronomically high salaries’ and it turned out to be ‘We’re appalled by the inequality between the sexes.’” She is really getting into her stride now. “I was embarrassed and I thought it was prurient and voyeuristic. It was just gross. It’s nobody’s business how much I earn.”
Classic Feltz. She argues her case with such a flourish that you are momentarily blinded to its flaws. Without naming names and attaching them to the jobs, nobody would have been aware of the gender pay gap.
I ask if she was a signatory to the open letter published by high-profile BBC presenters demanding the pay disparity be corrected at all levels. “I didn’t know there was a letter. I never know anything because I’m not online. I have never sent or received an email in my life.” She laughs. “Look, thank God nobody asked me. I didn’t see the letter so I didn’t have to make any decision about signing or not.” Would she have signed it if she’d seen it? “Probably not. How do you prove two people on the same show are doing an equal job? Has one of them been around longer, has one of them been poached from somewhere else and therefore they had to be offered more money? There are all different reasons why people get paid different amounts. I don’t approve of a gender gap. Obviously I think people should be paid the same for the same, but in this instance I do think it’s a bit more complicated than that.”
Feltz is impossible to pigeonhole – very English (the cut-glass accent) and very Jewish (endless Yiddishisms); so open (about pretty much everything from her divorce to her gastric band) and private (money); a tabloid presenter (a recent feature was about dogging in the afternoon on Hampstead Heath) who also loves the high-brow; huge confidence (about her abilities) mixed with raging self-doubt (constant references to her weight).
She grew up in the wealthy London suburb of Totteridge. “I always say it was the Beverly Hills of north London, the swimming pool and chopped liver belt.” Her father ran a successful underwear business, her mother was a history graduate. Young Vanessa was academic and outgoing. Her parents dreamed she would be the next Susan Sontag, but she just wanted to be the first Vanessa Feltz. At school, she says, she was known as Vanessa the Undresser. Was she promiscuous? “No. God, no. I was a saucy girl but I fell in love at 12 and I went out with the same guy for nine years.” So why the nickname? “It rhymes, it’s convenient, because I was busty, voluptuous, that sort of thing.”
Feltz adored literature, graduating from Cambridge with a first in English. Soon after, she split up with her boyfriend and married Michael Kurer, then a junior doctor. By her mid-20s she was the mother of two daughters and had a burgeoning TV career. When she was 38, Kurer walked out on her for another woman.
After they split, she lost five stone. Today she describes the divorce as “cataclysmic and horrifying”. She says if she was still married to him today, she would be unhappy but would probably know how to go online. “My husband had just left so I didn’t have a grownup bossing me around when the internet started.”
There have been many lows – professionally and privately. But she has bounced back from them all. Feltz is not so much bottle half full as bottle positively overflowing. She now lives with her fiance, singer Ben Ofoedu, a 6ft 4in (she is 5ft 2in) born-again Christian singer 10 years her junior. They have been together for 11 years, and she says they could not be more different. “God, he’s so laid-back. It’s infuriating! But also magnificent to behold. He says to me: ‘Be easy fam.’ He says fam but he means me, not the rest of the family. And I’m not easy, am I? I’m full of everything. Angst and ecstasy and fun. He says: ‘Rest your skin.’ Noooo! Of course I can’t. I’m worried about this, excited about that, concerned about this, I’m a hell of a lot of stuff.” Even by Feltz’s standards she is talking quickly.
Anyway, she says, she can’t afford to take it easy because she hasn’t got much time left. “I always think I better hurry up and do stuff. My mother died at 57 [of endometrial cancer], and I’m 55 and a half nearly, so I count the weeks and days and hours. I find it very hard to imagine myself living longer than my mother.” Did you think about death before she died? “Oh God, yes. I’ve thought about death almost as long as I can remember. From the age of one and a half or something. As soon as I knew we were mortal I was perturbed. Fear of death really did interfere with my childhood a lot.” Genuinely?
“Yes.” She looks offended. “I’m not going to say anything that’s not genuine. What’s the point? So when my mother died at 57 that all made it a bit more imminent and scary. I’m not at all ready to die. So I think, if I live as long as her, how long have I got? And now we’re down to not long.”
I say I’m going to put on a bet that she lives into her 90s. Now she looks at me as if I’m mad. “Why? Why are you going to do that? I’ve always been fat. Why are you going to do that? Too much strudel, too many latkes, not enough exercise, all this aggravation from working so hard, hardly sleeping, how can I live that long?” She talks about everything she wants to pack in – books and art, more work (she says radio beats TV any day, but she wouldn’t mind a telly comeback with a late-night show – “A literate Letterman with a bit of politics”), time with her girls and two grandchildren.
Blimey, I say, you really do think you’re going to die in a couple of years, don’t you? “I don’t know if I genuinely think it, but I feel it.”
Does she enjoy being a grandmother? “At last a great question,” she shouts ecstatically. “Yes, I love it, adore it. It is the most wonderful, fantastic thing that has ever happened to me. Have you seen my bag?” The bag has a printed photo of her grandchildren on its front. She says nothing has given her as much happiness as her daughters (one a lawyer, the other a teacher) and grandchildren. “I’m crazy about both my girls and choose above all else to hang out with them. They are my ideal companions. I really like them within cuddling, pinching, touching, kissing distance.” She says she constantly tells them how wonderful they are. Does her father ever tell her she is wonderful? “No, not really. He’s much more likely to say: ‘For this you went to Cambridge?’” For what? “Anything I do.” Has he ever said ‘I’m proud of you, girl?’ “No!” Have you wanted him to? “I want everyone to. Doesn’t everyone? I think both my parents felt I should have done something much more serious.”
Feltz has often been given a hard time by the media – she was once ranked 93rd in a poll of the 100 Worst Britons. In 1998, when she left her ITV show after a row about money, insiders said she had demanded £2.75m over two years rather than the £1.5m she was being paid. She has said she thinks she is perceived as “a fat, greedy Jew”. It does feel as if she has been the target of more “isms” than most of her contemporaries – sexism, fatism, antisemitism. Feltz talks of her “infamy” and “notoriety” and says she is baffled by it. “I seemed to net an enormous amount of coverage, much more than people who’d been on the telly for years and had prime-time shows and really deserved it. Why? What’s so noticeable about me? I honestly don’t get it. I just can’t see it.” Well, you can be a little loud, I say. “I suppose so,” she says quietly.
Did the Sunday Times column by Holocaust denier Kevin Myers about her and Winkleman’s salary upset her? “It did upset me because it was so blatantly, flagrantly racist, in the most predictable stereotypically, Shylockian, Fagin-ian, Zionist-conspiracy-an kind of way. It was a crude, horrible, racist stereotype.”
For all her brashness, there is a sensitivity and generosity to Feltz. And she is a fantastic life force. She insists on driving me home, despite it being out of the way. Her car is just as you’d expect – a bright red, top-of-the-range mini for a girl around town. Only one thing is missing – a personalised number plate. “Why would I want that?”, she asks. “I don’t need to draw any more attention to myself.” Feltz is always true to herself. But in the car, I feel I see her at her truest – fast, funny, uninhibited. “Right, should we go topless?” she says. I give her a look. She grins, and unwinds the roof. “Are you cold? I could heat your tochus, put the heating on, make you some chicken soup, all sorts of things I could do.”
As she drives, she gets a fews waves and thumbs-ups from members of the public. “I bet if you’re Fiona Bruce or Trevor McDonald you don’t get stopped that much and people don’t expect you to give them a cuddle or a squeeze. But if you’re me, they do. Just after I got this car I was sitting at traffic lights and a guy gestured to me in a provocative way, saying ‘Phone number?’, and I just lifted up my engagement ring and went ‘Married!’. And he lifted up his hand and went ‘Me too!’” She’s in stitches.
She’s driving through her old manor in north London. “Ah, the Phoenix cinema. I lost my virginity there. No, that’s not true. I lost it after seeing a film there. Fellini’s Amarcord. Very sexy film, with the woman in the sweet shop with the most gigantic pneumatic breasts.” Would she have fancied being in a Fellini film? “Yes!” she screams. “I would absolutely love to have been in a Fellini film. But I’d settle for EastEnders.”
I tell her one of my favourite Feltz moments is the interview with Madonna when she went on and on about breast-feeding. “Well, Madonna doesn’t like being out-provocateured, does she? So she didn’t like it. She’d just played Evita so she was being imperious, and just utterly ridiculous. I was well cheesed off with the whole thing. I thought she was so rude and she’d been so cavalier with the lives of everybody who had to wait for her all those hours. The egalitarian in me could just not stand it. I thought, don’t you dare dispose of our lives like this.”
Earlier on, I asked if she ever got sick of the sound of her own voice. Absolutely, she said – she hardly talks at home, loves the silence, and when she goes to a dinner party she tells her friends she is out of conversation. As she pulls up outside my house, she remembers what she said, asks how much I have to write, and decides to help me out with the article. “Seven hours later, Vanessa’s still talking,” she says. “Having said she’s got nothing else to say, she’s absolutely burned out, there’s not one word or syllable she wishes to utter on any subject, she is still talking.” She bursts out laughing again, and drives off.
Claude Rich, who has died aged 88, was a familiar face in French cinema and theatre for almost seven decades. The much-loved actor alternated between stage and screen, considering the latter as recreation, the former a passion. In fact, he had few really challenging roles on screen, despite having made films for the New Wave directors Alain Resnais, François Truffaut and Claude Chabrol. His reputation among French audiences derived from a string of mainstream comedies, especially in the 1960s, in which they cherished his ever-youthful, naive persona, his lilting voice and consistent smile, either charming or mischievous.
The film that made him a star was Les Tontons Flingueurs (1963), rendered variously in English as Monsieur Gangster or Crooks in Clover (literally, The Killer Uncles). Scripted by Michel Audiard, a master of witty and biting French argot, the comedy-thriller has Rich as Antoine, an effete young man engaged to the teenage ward of Fernand, a reformed gangster (Lino Ventura). Rich is both amusing and suitably irritating as a snob and pedant, causing Fernand to kick him out of the house.
Rich, who was born in Strasbourg, was brought up with his three siblings by his widowed mother (his father, an engineer, died of flu when Claude was a boy). At school in Paris during the German occupation, he thought of becoming a Roman Catholic priest. However, after the war, he worked in a bank, while becoming interested in acting.
At the National Conservatory of Dramatic Art, Jean Rochefort, Jean-Paul Belmondo and Annie Girardot were among his contemporaries. In 1953, soon after leaving with a second prize (no first prizes were given that year), Rich got work in professional theatre, beginning with the role of one of the two cynical murderers in Patrick Hamilton’s Rope (1954) at the Théâtre de la Renaissance. A year later, he made his film debut in René Clair’s gently ironic romantic comedy, Les Grandes Manoeuvres (Summer Manoeuvres), the first of his many roles in uniform, which included the elegant first world war officer and stage-door Johnny in Jacqueline Audry’s Mitsou (1957).
Again for Clair, Rich was in the best of the seven sketches in Love and the Frenchwoman (1960). Entitled Marriage, it had Rich and Marie-José Nat as a married couple jolted by their first arguments while on the way to their honeymoon destination. In the portmanteau movie The Seven Deadly Sins (1962), in the Greed segment, sharply directed by Chabrol, Rich is one of a group of military cadets who dream of a night of love with a prostitute. To raise the money, they organise a lottery with her as the prize.
One of his best films was Jean Renoir’s wry and touching Le Caporal Epinglé (The Vanishing Corporal, 1962), set in German PoW camps during the second world war. The bespectacled Rich, who is selected as an interpreter though he does not speak a word of German, admits his cowardice to the eponymous constantly escaping corporal (Jean-Pierre Cassel), the walls of the latrine acting as a confessional.
Rich was among the starry cast of René Clément’s Is Paris Burning? (1966), about the liberation of the capital. He played two leading French army officers: General Leclerc, with a moustache, and Lt Pierre de la Fouchardière, without a moustache. His role as the young lieutenant came not by chance, but because, as a teenager, he was watching soldiers in the street when the real De la Fouchardière called him into a building to protect him.
In Truffaut’s Hitchcockian The Bride Wore Black (1968), Rich plays the first of five victims targeted by Jeanne Moreau as revenge for having killed her bridegroom on their wedding day. She tracks him down to his high-rise apartment where he is having a party on the eve of his wedding. Being a ladies’ man, he cannot resist following her on to the balcony, where she tells him her name and pushes him off the building.
In the same year, Resnais gave Rich one of his few leading roles in the cerebral sci-fi movie Je T’aime Je T’aime. As a young man saved from suicide, he is invited by scientists to participate in an experiment that sends him back in time for short periods. Rich, as the human guinea pig, holds the film together as a charming, caustically humorous, essentially weak man. Also for Resnais was Stavisky (1974), the true 1930s story of an infamous financier and swindler (played by Belmondo) who is pursued by Rich, superbly sly as the dogged Inspector Bonny.
At the same time, theatre kept Rich busy during the 70s and 80s, with some of his major parts being the title roles of Alfred de Musset’s Lorenzaccio (1976), directed by Franco Zeffirelli for the Comédie Française, and Shakespeare’s Pericles (1978), directed by Roger Planchon. In 1989 he was Talleyrand to Claude Brasseur’s Fouché in Le Souper, which three years later was made into a film for which Rich won a César. He later became known to a new generation of filmgoers with his appearance a long white beard as the druid magician Panoramix in Asterix and Obelix Meet Cleopatra (2002).
Rich, who was a devout Catholic, though he called himself a “pitiable Christian”, married the actor Catherine Renaudin in 1959. She survives him, as do their two daughters, Delphine and Natalie, and son, Rémy.
• Claude Rich, actor, born 8 February 1929; died 20 July 2017
“You might as well call it the Edinburgh whinge festival,” says Mat Ewins, towards the end of his new show. Sincerity and self-disclosure are the new comedy virtues, he protests – whither now the incorrigible joker, committed not to truth-telling, but windups, pranks and silly jokes? Well, Ewins’ show Adventureman 7 (don’t ask) might just be good enough to propel sheer idiocy back into fashion. It’s an absolute hoot, a DIY Indiana Jones spoof constructed from digital animations, good-natured crowd interaction and a droopy stick-on moustache. Oh, and the most brilliant wool-over-the-audience’s-eyes moment we’re likely to experience anywhere at this year’s festival.
From the venue (a subterranean bunker with bad sightlines) to the gimcrack videos, the show could hardly be more homespun. Ewins, runs the subtext, is a doofus with time on his hands, and he’s used it to imagine an alter ego for himself, a novice treasure-hunter charged with retrieving a lost amulet, and thereby saving his museum workplace from closure. Along the way, Ewins resists not one opportunity to detour up unexpected byways, whether that’s leading us in a shanty singalong with very unlikely lyrics, conducting a hazard perception test with a homicidal motorist in the audience, or promoting his new compound crockery product, “the Cuplate”.
Most of this is demonstrated on screen, where Ewins’ countless crudely but cleverly assembled animations supply ever-surprising visual punchlines. Comedy cohorts (Tessa Coates, Fin Taylor, John Kearns) pitch in pre-recorded cameos, the latter as Adventureman’s arch-enemy. A winning silliness predominates: an Egyptian streetscape fleetingly forms the face of a Chuckle brother. What’s impressive is the volume as well as the unexpectedness of the jokes: there are hidden jokes and jokes-in-passing, as if every jokeless moment has been rigorously weeded out.
But is that enough in modern comedy? Towards the end, our host – tethered to a lie detector – steps out of the show to open his heart about his preference for fantasy and fabrication over truth. Is it a breakdown, a confession – or something else entirely? It’s certainly a gripping moment, which throws the other 50 minutes of fun into more glorious relief. Suddenly, Adventureman 7 is elevated, from cracking hour of nonsense comedy into something else: a declaration of independence from serious-mindedness; a hymn to doodling, daftness and the imagination unplugged. It’s a blast.
Jeremy Clarkson has revealed he was told by doctors he could have died after battling pneumonia.
The Grand Tour presenter fell ill earlier this month while on the Spanish island of Mallorca and has written about his time in hospital in his Sunday Times column.
He wrote that he had “three nights spent spasming in my bed” before a doctor sent him for tests at the hospital. He was then told he would have to be admitted for at least a week, which he called impossible. The doctor said: “If you don’t do as I say you will die.”
The TV presenter said: “I’m sure many of you will have found yourself in hospital, not having planned to be there. But for me it was a new experience. And a weird one. Because I was in a room with nothing on the walls except wallpaper, and most of that was coming off.”
Clarkson has now left hospital, but faces two months of recuperation. He said: “This is the problem with hospitals. People who stay in them become institutionalised and incapable of speaking about anything other than what nurse brought what drug at what time. Boredom turns them into bores.
“And when they get out, as I have, and there is nothing to do for two whole months apart from get better, things are even worse, because all I can talk about is my illness.”
Clarkson announced news of his illness last week, posting on Drivetribe that he would be “out of action for quite some time”. “It’s really, really annoying because I’ve never had one day off work since I started in 1978,” he said.
The illness comes two months after his co-host Richard Hammond was airlifted to hospital when his car crashed while filming The Grand Tour.
Tricky business, this audience participation. A whole genre of comedy has bloomed over the last few years, propelling this most awkward element of live entertainment centre-stage. Adam Riches is its most notorious exponent; Aussie act Steen Raskopoulos is closing in and returns (after a best newcomer nomination in 2014) with another neatly constructed set in which the audience play key roles. It’s good fun, at least in proportion to the enthusiasm of Raskopoulos’s volunteers (and I use that word loosely). But tonight, they’re not always happy, which made me uneasy in turn – voyeur to the public discomfort of others being itself an uncomfortable role in which to be cast.
There is, I think, a disingenuousness at the heart of the enterprise. “I wouldn’t ask you to do anything I personally wouldn’t do,” Raskopoulos tells us. But he’s a professional extrovert; his audience, presumably, aren’t. His show unfolds a series of sketches that resolve into a story. A bereaved horse grieves his slain stablemate. A naive kid (returning from previous Raskopoulos sets) celebrates his birthday alone. A driving lesson handbrake-turns into a bank robbery.
Each scene is opened widely to the audience; Raskopoulos is permanently alert to what’s happening in the room, only ever half-submerged in the sketch. Audience members are press-ganged on stage, to be buyers at prospective house purchase, or a misbehaving office worker obliged – by way of discipline – to perform an interpretative dance. In that instance, the stooge playfully contradicts Raskopoulos’s instructions – which the show’s structure isn’t flexible enough to accommodate. Elsewhere, a punter prompted to impersonate Craig David is painfully reluctant to do so, and a teenage girl stands mute on stage, unable to volunteer the information Raskopoulos strains to elicit.
The show recovers; no one’s uncomfortable for long. Raskopoulos himself is a stellar performer, unafraid to splash sentimentality on to his canvas alongside the more straightforward gags about timidity at the barbers, or being rude to on-street charity workers. The way his disparate sketches come together is pleasingly corny and in his cod-interpretative dance sequence (choreographed via suggestions from the crowd) and elsewhere, he’s created fruitful contexts for improvised interactive comedy. But they’re not quite proof against an audience member’s shyness, nor safe enough to let participation-phobes like me relax in our seats. On some nights, this show will soar – but its audience engineering needs a few tweaks.
Anyone who grew up in the 1970s will recall the alluring power of David Cobham’s family film Tarka the Otter, his adaptation of Henry Williamson’s famous tale of triumph and tragedy on the river. Bowland Beth has echoes of Tarka in Cobham’s eagerness to tell the life story of a famous bird of prey shot in 2012. The subtext is that both hen harriers and sportsmen with guns paying over £3,000 a day have the same taste for grouse on the moors of the United Kingdom. The sections Cobham writes from Bowland Beth’s point of view soar like a harrier carried away by a thermal, the hand of a film-maker quite evident. However, the flatter rehearsals of the conservation arguments underline that this is Cobham’s first book, the interviews with key players feeling like they’ve been lifted from a script. Some gorgeous illustrations from Dan Powell do make this a special package though, a clarion call for deeper thinking about wild birds in the 21st century.
• Bowland Beth: The Life of an English Hen Carrier by David Cobham is published by William Collins (16.99). To order a copy for £14.44 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
So fluent, so textured is Jonathan Miles’s ease with prose and argument that his vivid dissection of 300 years of St Petersburg’s history should be devoured in captive sittings.
The cultural, and sometime political, capital of Russia, St Petersburg, built on a drained swamp by pitiless and homicidal tsar Peter the Great, mixes romantic fancy with vile reality. Cultural historian Miles skilfully forges and exposes the tangled character of what he calls this “absurd” city in which “dreams are big and information and truth are in short supply”.
Investigating the artistic life of St Petersburg, he also explores the melodrama and blood on the streets and the effects of continuing political disarray and corruption on ordinary people. This is a storyteller entranced with his subject, who makes its brilliant portrayal look deliriously easy.
• St Petersburg: Three Centuries of Murderous Desire by Jonathan Miles is published by Hutchinson (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
This enigmatic Swiss novel begins with a suburban couple putting their children to bed after returning from a family holiday. With Ella and Konrad asleep, Thomas and Astrid settle down with a glass of wine and the Sunday paper. But Konrad soon wakes and when Astrid goes upstairs to see to him, Thomas leaves the house without a word – and doesn’t come back. The ensuing narrative is divided between Astrid’s attempt to carry on as normal – attributing Thomas’s absence from his accountancy firm to shingles – and her husband’s apparently aimless and increasingly risky wanderings in the Alps.
As usual with Stamm, the story gets its energy from an intriguing blankness about motive, with nothing presented by way of justification for Thomas’s actions. While it’s never sentimental, – apart, perhaps, from the faintly unsatisfactory ending – there’s some exceptionally moving writing as Astrid finds herself unable to accept her husband’s presumed death.
• To the Back of Beyond by Peter Stamm (translated by Michael Hofmann) is published by Granta (£12.99). To order a copy for £11.04 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
There was a thrill and a buzz around 201 Dance Company when they brought their last production, Smother, to Edinburgh. In telling the stories of two gay men and their community of friends, 201 were staking out significant new ground for hip-hop, proving that the language of street dance was supple and expressive enough to deal with complex character and emotion.
With Skin, choreographer Andrea Walker tackles even more demanding material, charting the story of one child’s journey towards gender transition. This is a theme that’s currently blowing through the theatrical zeitgeist, but the challenge of navigating its psychological and political intricacies is a particularly tricky one for pure dance.
Smartly, Walker opts for images of graphic simplicity to establish the premise of his story. Two figures stand facing each other, identically dressed in jeans and a knitted cap. They’re the child and adult versions of Michael, Walker’s protagonist; as they pull off their caps and shake out their hair, as they reluctantly revert to wearing dresses, it’s made unambiguously clear that Michael was born female.
Walker finds powerful movement imagery to show how alienated Michael feels within his body. Michaela Cisarikova as the adult Michael distills a harrowing level of tension into her angled, robotic moves, tugging at her dress as if it was burning her skin. Flashing back to childhood, little Michael (Candy Dickinson) is groomed by her mother (Lara Rose McCabe) to look and move like a girl. But she can’t make sense of her mother’s brittle manikin posing, her high heels and tight dress. Her body eases into confident joy when Michael finds an adult male to follow and can mimic his sturdy slouch, or attempt her own, giggling version of his gregarious B-boy moves.
The social pressures on Michael as s/he gets older are neatly encapsulated by a group dance in which s/he’s caught between sexually aggressive men, and women who want to trade makeup and clothes. Yet as cleverly as Walker sketches the narrative basics, as fine and committed as his dancers are, Skin doesn’t develop into a fully felt or fully imagined drama. The characters surrounding Michael – especially his mother – are limitingly schematic, and the choreography for everyone, except Cisarikova, looks underworked. When Michael finally commits to being a man, it all feels too tidy – a diagrammatic conclusion rather than the outcome of a lived experience.
Anyone who has read The Da Vinci Code will have an idea of who the Knights Templar were, albeit perhaps not an accurate one. Their reputation has been that of a shadowy sect lurking on the fringes of early medieval Christianity, combining occult dealings with near-limitless power and influence. In this thrillingly lucid account, Dan Jones demystifies the Templars in a story spanning hundreds of years and countless rulers, knights and archbishops, a seemingly disproportionate number of whom ended up beheaded.
The Templar sect originally lived in Jerusalem, leading lives “with humble attire and spare diet”. They were a Catholic military order dedicated to the promotion of Christian aims and values, by aggressively direct means. By the 1140s, three decades after their foundation, they were famous all over the Christian world, both for their bravery in battle and for the vast wealth their order had amassed.
If Jones has a central theme, it is that of the conflict between faith and progress
Their name came from the original place of their order’s dwelling, a palace situated next to the Temple of the Lord in the city. Jones describes how “the kingdom of Jerusalem was a place where rapture and terror were to be experienced side by side, often over the course of the same day”.
It was in this ever-mutable place that the battle between the Christian and Muslim faiths would be fought throughout the 12th and 13th centuries, most notably between the great Saracen leader Saladin and the Templar-affiliated English king Richard I, “the Lionheart”. We learn that the defence of Jerusalem against Saladin in June 1187 was financed by a windfall fund paid to the church by Henry II as a penance because of his culpability in the murder of Thomas Becket in Canterbury Cathedral 17 years before.
If Jones has a central theme, it is that of the conflict between faith and progress, both in terms of the Christian-Islam wars that dominate the book, but also in the Templars’ own beliefs. Their strict values not only meant that all who belonged to the order had to swear a vow of celibacy, but retreat from the battlefield was forbidden under all circumstances. In one case, some inadvertent deserters served penance for a year and a day, during which they had to eat like dogs.
By the early 14th century, the Templars’ unbending values and refusal to compromise had made them an anachronism in an era that came to rely increasingly on diplomacy in place of military might and in the 1310s they were “imprisoned, tortured, killed, ejected from their homes and humiliated” in a great purge courtesy of Philip IV of France (who was heavily in debt to the order).
Anyone who has read Jones’s earlier medieval chronicles, The Plantagenets and The Hollow Crown, will know what to expect here: fast-paced narrative history depicted with irresistible verve, bloody battle scenes and moments of laugh-out-loud wit. There are contemporary parallels, too, with the Templars eventually being laid low by the medieval equivalent of a kind of “fake news”: anti-Templar propaganda spread by the church. This is another triumphant tale from a historian who writes as addictively as any page-turning novelist.
• The Templars: The Rise and Spectacular Fall of God’s Holy Warriors by Dan Jones is published by Head of Zeus (£25). To order a copy for £21.25, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Creating art and going shopping are different. Both difficult things in their own way. But looking at the Wallace Collection the other day, I thought for the first time about how all these beautiful things had once been sold – to a family who could afford them. Now they are gathered together to be looked at by those of us who can’t.
The Wallace Collection was bequeathed to the nation by the widow of the 4th Marquess of Hertford's illegitimate son
The Wallace Collection, housed in Hertford House, Westminster, was mainly amassed by Richard Seymour-Conway, Fourth Marquess of Hertford, and then bequeathed to the British nation by the widow of his illegitimate son, Sir Richard Wallace, in 1900.
As well as such world-famous delights such as The Artist’s Son Titus by Rembrandt, The Bacino from the Gíudecca in Venice by Canaletto, Perseus and Andromeda by Titian and The Lady with a Fan by Velazquez, the collection has a wonderful furniture gallery. With more than 500 pieces, it’s best known for its 18th-century French pieces resplendent in rococo bronze-gilt glory. A highlight is the work of cabinet-maker André-Charles Boulle. It was remarkable to think that these golden, shiny things had once simply been for sale.
It’s pointless to envy the owners of these golden delights, especially as we cannot buy them now even if we had the money. History is not so easily acquired. But institutions like these are vital as they let anyone and everyone come into close contact with these beautiful things.
Experiencing these objects is a wonderful thing. And while some visitors might be inspired to shop for things after seeing the Wallace Collection, there will be many others who will want to try to make them instead. Art inspires art. And to my mind, the more gilt the better.
Ned Beauman is the author of four novels including his highly acclaimed debut, Boxer, Beetle. He has been longlisted for the Man Booker prize, won a Somerset Maugham award and has been named one of Granta’s best British novelists under 40.
Your new novel, Madness Is Better Than Defeat, is inspired by the making of the films Apocalypse Now and Fitzcarraldo. What interested you about that process?The inevitability of it: this sense that you go into the jungle to make a film about white men falling victim to tyrannical hubris and latent insanity, then the exact same thing happening to you. You’re doomed before you even begin. So the book is asking: what if there’s some deep occult reason why this keeps happening over and over again?
Why do you think those films capture the public’s imagination?This is one of the themes of the book – and indeed the title of the book – that there’s something extremely seductive about madness, about the possibility of abandoning all civilisational structures and common sense and plunging into something much darker and more turbid. And for a lot of people, the jungle seems like the perfect place to do that because it’s a long way away and nobody’s watching.
One adjective that’s used a lot about your novels is “experimental”. Is that what you set out to be?I don’t think I do anything in my books that hasn’t been done before somewhere. I don’t see them as genuinely avant garde and I don’t have that modernist urge to break fiction open. It’s experimental just in the sense of trying out something a bit unlikely to see if I can make it work.
Two of your three previous novels either won or were shortlisted for prizes. What value do you place on literary prizes?I’ve been with the same publisher for all my books so if you have a publisher who has put that much faith and investment into books that aren’t exactly blockbusters then you’re always thinking: how can I make sure that pays off for my publisher? And a prize nomination is simply the best way to make sure that happens.
Which contemporary writers do you most admire?China Miéville, Rachel Kushner and Ben Lerner.
Which authors have had the greatest influence on your own writing?Thomas Pynchon, David Foster Wallace, Nabokov and William Gibson.
Do you read while you’re working on a novel, or steer clear of other people’s prose?Since I was about 16, I’ve had a novel in progress continuously, so I have to read while I write otherwise I could just never read anything, which I think would have set me back significantly.
What’s the book people would be most surprised to find on your bookshelf?I recently paid a high price on eBay for The West Wing script books, which I feel slightly sheepish about because at this point it’s really uncool to like The West Wing. But I’m trying to get into screenwriting and there just isn’t anyone who’s better at dialogue than Aaron Sorkin.
You campaigned for Labour in the recent election. If you could press one book into the hands of Theresa May, which would it be?Preparation for the Next Life by Atticus Lish: it’s the most compelling contemporary novel I’ve ever read about how hard it is to be in the underclass. But I’m sure Theresa May has read a lot of novels and she would no doubt say that you don’t read a story about an imaginary person and then try to raise taxes because of it. So I’m not sure it would do much good.
• Madness Is Better Than Defeat is published by Hodder & Stoughton (£16.99). To order a copy for £12.74 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Anyone wanting to sing outside the privacy of their own shower ought to be handed a tablet rammed with memoirs and biopics, featuring the cautionary tales of Tina Turner (abusive partner), Ronnie Spector (ditto), Britney Spears (mental health issues), Mariah Carey (controlling partner), Amy Winehouse (drugs), and now, Kesha Sebert (case ongoing). They should familiarise themselves with the business debacles of Prince (label woes), Leonard Cohen (thieving associate), the Stone Roses (contractual nightmares) and Brian Wilson (abusive therapist) and seriously reconsider small animal veterinary practice.
If poetic justice exists, Kesha’s Rainbow, her third album, would be a world-beating hit. It would be proof that people really want to listen to the authentic feelings of women – Kesha’s killer comeback song, Praying, say – rather than lubricious fantasias of catchy party pop. You might remember the bratty Tik Tok, or (cough) Your Love Is My Drug, or any of Kesha’s trashy chart-fodder under the aegis of Lukasz “Dr Luke” Gottwald, the producer who directed Sebert’s early success before a flurry of lawsuits – alleging rape, drugging and more – started flying.
We’re really here for the empowerment narrative – to hear pop cannon-fodder firing back
Rainbow, then, is Kesha unchained – although still signed to the label she accuses of colluding with Gottwald. Turns out, the real Sebert isn’t a cannibal, or an animal, but a big country fan. The patron saint of business-savvy chanteuses, Dolly Parton, turns up to duet on Old Flames (Can’t Hold a Candle to You); ballads and twanging feature frequently.
So Rainbow is both stranger and more normal than you expect; uneven – does Kesha really rhyme “highway” with “Hyundai”? – but likable. Even after everything, the singer remains allied to fun; a balladeer with a gonzoid streak. The galumphing Boots finds this “rolling stoner” in love, missing her flight to Japan. On a love song called Godzilla, the vengeful Japanese mutant eats her fries.
Prurient though it sounds, we’re really here for the empowerment narrative – to hear pop cannon fodder firing back. It starts with Bastards, a country tune in which “motherfuckers” try to grind Kesha down: a little heavy on cliche, perhaps, but you’re on her side now.
We progress through the rock-tinged Let ’Em Talk (on which the Eagles of Death Metal guest), before finally hitting paydirt on Woman, a girl-positive party anthem featuring the Dap-Kings horns. “Don’t touch my weed/ Don’t call me honey/ Cause I run my shit, baby,” swaggers Kesha, convincingly.
The resonant Hymn (“for the hymnless”), meanwhile, is one of those would-be generational anthems in which young people are revealed to be screwed up but OK: a bit like Halsey’s New Americana, but with more heft.
At the very end is Spaceship. It would be easy to lump this stoner country bagatelle with the goofy Godzilla. But here, Kesha considers her own death and leaving this flawed place behind, sounding pretty evolved. “Nothing is real, love is everything,” she concludes, “and I know nothing.”
Food history narratives sell only in the tiniest quantities in the UK, so any publisher contemplating such a proposal needs to find a marketing angle, one that resonates with contemporary issues perhaps, or addresses our national psyche.
In the cinema world, films such as Viceroy’s House, and Victoria & Abdul are testament to our enduring fascination with the British empire, the gift that keeps on giving. In the book world, empire nonfiction is another demonstrably commercial genre, and the latest title from distinguished historian Lizzie Collingham, The Hungry Empire: How Britain’s Quest for Food Shaped the Modern World – with its striking similarity to Niall Ferguson’s Empire: How Britain Made the Modern World – clearly aims for this market.
The prevailing tone is one of awe at the achievements of the great imperial project
“Happy empire” themes do appeal. In 2014, a YouGov survey found that most of the British public thought that “the British empire is more something to be proud of (59%) rather than ashamed of (19%)”. Nevertheless, most museum curators these days put slavery, the ugly conjoined twin in many imperial tales, into the “difficult histories” category, subjects that require careful perspective and interpretation if they are not to strike an offensive, ugly note. Unfortunately, Collingham’s matter-of-fact writing, while undeniably predicated on immaculate research, doesn’t demonstrate this awareness.
Her theme is how Britain’s search for ingredients (sugar, pepper, tea, rice, cod and more) drove the rise of its empire. Each chapter opens with a particular meal and then explores its history. One chapter, for instance, is entitled, “In which la Belinguere entertains Sieur Michel Jajolet de la Courbe [both slave traders] to an African-American meal on the west coast of Africa (June 1686)”. It is subtitled, “How West Africa exchanged men for maize and manioc”. But “exchange” is a consensual act; enslavement (kidnapping, deportation, rape, murder, theft, cruelty, torture) most definitely isn’t. Collingham’s book is studded with euphemisms. “Adventurers” [slave owners] established “plantation agriculture” [the now infamous chattel slavery system], “appropriated” [stole land from its indigenous inhabitants], and “imported slaves” [enslaved people, ripped from their homelands].
As the historian David Olusoga has pointed out: “Few acts of collective forgetting have been as thorough and as successful as the erasing of slavery from Britain’s ‘island story’.” Collingham’s language continues that tradition. She does include some references to colonial brutality that should make the reader flinch, but the prevailing tone is one of awe at the achievements of the great imperial project, “the web of trade that held them [trading posts] all together”.
What a shame, because otherwise Collingham’s book offers a colourful history that illuminates the roots of contemporary diets, exploding any notion that global fusion food is something new. She traces how a dish of iguana curry, savoured by Guyanese diamond miners in 1993, blended Amerindian hunter-gatherer wisdom, the cuisine of enslaved Africans and the spicy culinary traditions of Indian labourers who were shipped to the colony’s sugar plantations once slavery was abolished. We learn how white settlers wiped out the cured buffalo of the Plains Indians, the fern, root, taro and kumasi preparations of the Maori, and grilled frog of Australian aborigines, to make way for bland frontier dishes, such as salt beef stew, and damper, “the first truly global meals”.
As Collingham dots around the globe – Newfoundland, India, New England, Barbados, South Carolina, the Cape, Guyana, Kenya, the south Pacific and more – weaving in and out of diverse histories from 1545 to 1996, she serves up an eclectic diet of historical fact. Much of it is interesting, although less dedicated readers might have welcomed stricter editing. Having uncovered some nugget of information, however supplementary or tangential to the central theme, Collingham seems loth not to use it. For a non-academic audience, The Hungry Nation is bloated with fact and frustratingly light on analysis.
Collingham doesn’t use the opportunities she creates to examine the imperial legacy on contemporary diets. She quotes the anthropologist Audrey Richards, who observed in 1939 that “the diet of many primitive (sic) peoples has deteriorated in contact with white civilisation (sic) rather than the reverse”.
Given that sugar is public health enemy number one, Collingham might have commented on how colonial crops now also undermine the health of Britons today.
Her observation that Britain’s reliance on food from faraway places was a hallmark of empire invites a postscript. A less palatable result of The Hungry Empire is our current food security predicament. The UK can’t fully feed itself today; our self-sufficiency in food has dropped to 61%.
While Collingham ably catalogues the quest for ingredients that began in the 16th century with West Country fishermen setting sail to search for cod, some remark on the culmination of this imperial adventure would not go amiss. An acknowledgement, even, that the UK is now a neo-imperialist food economy, still using other people’s land and low wage foreign labour to feed its appetite. But perhaps such analysis is beyond the historian’s remit.
• The Hungry Empire by Lizzie Collingham is published by Bodley Head (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
It’s a bold move. Take one of the finest actors of his generation, noted for the subtlety of his recent Oscar-winning performance in Manchester By the Sea, and cover him with a sheet for most of a film. Casting Casey Affleck as the kind of bed linen-sporting ghost best known for menacing Scooby-Doo and pals is a decision akin to Lenny Abrahamson putting a massive papier-mache head on Michael Fassbender in Frank. But just as Fassbender managed to convey both humour and pathos despite the impediment of a giant moon of a false bonce, so Affleck imbues what could be an absurd presence, loitering on the edge of the frame like a piece of misplaced laundry, with an agonising sense of loss and mounting frustration. In his economic movements we recognise a soul adrift and increasingly unmoored from everything except his grief.
The fourth feature film from the American film-maker David Lowery, A Ghost Story reunites Affleck and Rooney Mara, the two stars of Lowery’s acclaimed second feature, Ain’t Them Bodies Saints. The director also brings from this previous film the hint of a Malickian influence in the slow-burning pacing and spiritual themes.
Tonally, it could hardly be further from his third picture, the delightful but rather more conventional family film Pete’s Dragon. Rather than Hollywood, the inspiration here comes from Europe – Lowery cites Jeanne Dielman, 23 quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles by Chantal Akerman as a reference point; I sensed a kinship with the matter-of-fact metaphysics of Olivier Assayas’s Personal Shopper – and Asia. It’s this that really stands out. Both in the long, mesmerisingly languid takes and the sense of a coexisting spirit world, the influence of Thai director Apichatpong Weerasethakul is evident. The almost ridiculous quality of Affleck’s sheet-covered spook finds a parallel in the slightly silly, red-eyed monkey spirits of Weerasethakul’s Uncle Boonmee Who Can Recall His Past Lives. The two films also have thematic parallels. Both explore the blurred edges between our corporeal existence and a parallel dimension inhabited by shadows and unquiet souls.
What is intriguing about this particular ghost story is not the fact that Lowery decides to tell it from the point of view of the ghost rather than the haunted humans. It’s the distance that Lowery places between Affleck’s character as a human – he plays C, the musician husband of Mara’s M – and the mournful, wafting presence he becomes after death. Once everything that made him human – his physical being, his powers of communication – is whittled away, what remains is love and an aching longing; he is a bruise without a body. Bereavement isn’t limited to the person left alive, but only the person left alive retains the tools to process grief and move on. The ghosts in this gorgeously sad story are left waiting for an answer to a question that evaporated into the ether long ago.
Pensive, precise and with an elegant, looping structure, this is a first-rate piece of direction from Lowery, who also wrote the screenplay. He employs minimal use of flashbacks, but there is one key moment – M listening to a new composition by her husband – that brings a whole new dimension to the raw emotion of the story.
With long spells without dialogue, and long takes without editing, Lowery leans on Daniel Hart’s lush, string-heavy score. There’s an unassuming beauty to the music: it’s ascendant but hesitant, hinting at the assumed trajectory of souls after death.
The film is also notable for Rooney Mara’s finest work since Carol. Her grief is luminous but low key – the camera seeks her out in close-up, framed in a boxy 1:33 aspect ratio, capturing the barely perceptible flickers of pain. There’s a harrowing four-minute shot in which she eats an entire chocolate pie, seeking something – anything – to fill the emptiness of grief. But the moment that really choked me comes just before. She throws something in the kitchen bin and then freezes, gazing, numb, at the discarded remnants of her former life, the life that until the day before she had shared with her man. It’s a subtly devastating jolt of realisation that everything has changed, for ever.
No one will ever know exactly what happened inside my head on the night of 28 July 1995, but probably it went something like this. First, for reasons that remain mysterious, a surreptitious clot began to form in one of my cerebral arteries, cutting off the blood supply to part of the one organ in the body that, after the heart, is most greedy for blood. Eventually, perhaps some hours later, like a breaking dam, the clot burst into the right side of my brain, causing an uncontrolled “bleed” that would achieve the irreversible destruction of cerebral tissue deep inside my head, in the part of the cortex known as the basal ganglia. In medical textbooks, this is “a severe insult to the brain”; in everyday conversation “a stroke”; and in my own life, an exceedingly close shave.
My first reaction, when I came round in University College hospital, drifting in and out of consciousness, was a kind of weird exhilaration. I had no idea about what had happened to me, but whatever it was, I seemed to have survived. Lying naked under a pink blanket in the intensive-care unit, wired up to the monitors, I was aware of being in the antechamber to the grave. Even now, years later, I can still recall the eerie fascination of this experience and of having, by great good fortune, returned to tell the tale.
Physically speaking, I’d been poleaxed. My left leg was paralysed, and my left arm hung from its socket like a dead rabbit; the left side of my face, which drooped badly for about 10 days, felt frozen, as if my dentist had just given it a massive novocaine injection. I could not stand upright, or even think of getting out of bed; besides, my penis was attached to a Conveen, a condom-like device that drained my urine into a plastic bag. My speech was slurred; every few hours, a team of three nurses would turn me over in bed, as if I was a slow-cooking roast. In place of pain – I was never in any pain – there was a hallucinatory sense of detachment, as if I was outside myself, looking in.
That was the day I should have died, but didn’t. Thankfully, within a year, I was on the road to some kind of physical recovery. Since then, a fortunate convalescent, I had lived from day to day as if nothing had changed. Call it carpe diem, or call it denial. In the back of my mind, I always knew there had to be a reckoning.
That eventually came one fine summer’s day in London, Friday 27 June 2014, when I tripped and fell while crossing the uneven pavement outside a row of shops – an antiques store, a hairdresser and a 24-hour grocery – in Notting Hill. At 1.30 in the afternoon, I was leaving my weekly session of pilates/physiotherapy with Dreas Reyneke, a retired dancer from the Ballet Rambert, renowned for his healing ways. When I came out of his anonymous black door, I was thinking about going home to shower and change for a long drive to Devon, where I was due to attend a wedding. Three steps later, I was pitched headlong towards the opposite of joy.
The fall itself – my fall – occurred in an instant, but also in a kind of slo-mo. That old weakness on my left side, the residual deficit from my stroke’s paralysis, had long been a source of vulnerability, and now my worst fears from two decades were coming to pass. My first thought as I hit the kerb with my face was Tintin not Kierkegaard: “Oh, *@?%$*!” Then the menace kicked in: this was what people meant by “a fall”, an Anglo-Saxon word that’s as old as the hills, rooted deep in our past, and edged with fear.
It’s just a tumble to a child, or a pratfall to a clown, but falling is the curse of our later years, and a troubling one, too. The failure of the human frame, even in a fall, is a deep humiliation to our sense of ourselves. In the UK, per annum, about one in three people over the age of 65 will thereby break a leg, or a wrist, or, worst of all, a hip. That fall can be a gateway to incapacity and decrepitude: about 40% of these fallers will end up in a nursing home; 20% may never walk again.
In khaki shorts and scuffed trainers, it was not until I saw the blood splashed on the pavement as well as on my white T-shirt, and found its sinister metallic taste in my mouth, that I realised how badly I was bleeding from my head. Just a few days before my 61st birthday, here I was passing into a new world in which (as I lay full-length on the pavement) concerned passers-by were bending over me with “Are you all right?”, and a smiley young West Indian woman on a quad bike was phoning for an ambulance.
“We’re at the junction of Kensington Park Road and Pembridge Road…”
While she gave directions, I was groggily getting to my feet, and staunching the flow of blood, gingerly feeling the cuts on my forehead. Mixed with gratitude, my main reaction was to be massively pissed off. I was bloody, bruised and disoriented, but otherwise OK. Perhaps I was concussed, but I didn’t think so.
My next thought was: I do not want to go to hospital. (I’ve seen enough of those, thank you.) I want to go home. But then the ambulance arrived, a pantechnicon of rescue, lumbering into view like one of those cranky Red Cross vehicles from my 50s childhood. While two paramedics began their first inspection, time swept me forward on a tide of questions: Date of birth? Profession? Home address? Medical history? And, of course, they wanted to take my blood pressure. Every medic in the world wants to take your blood pressure. For the record, after years of readings, I’m always Mr Normal: approximately 125/80.
Now we were inside the ambulance, which was crazily tilted across the kerb, blue lights blinking, and they were radioing back to base about someone I really did not want to know about, “a 60-year-old man with head injuries…” Was that me? I could hardly believe it. But it was.
My third thought, as the ambulance with its siren wailing began the short, almost stately, drive to St Mary’s Paddington, was, “This is injury time”, an inevitable prelude to the last exit. By accident, by chance, without warning, and when we least expect it, in a blink between opening a simple black door, and taking three steps into a summer afternoon: this is how we go. Here I was in this NHS ambulance, with old memories roaring into consciousness after a sleep of many years – and the sense of life itself hanging by a thread.
Suddenly I was back in that Islington street on 29 July 1995, taking the emergency route to University College Hospital on the edge of old Bloomsbury. I can recall looking through the window of that long-ago ambulance to watch the weekend world outside: shoppers crowding; cars inching through traffic; people with pints standing outside pubs.
Now, seated in another emergency vehicle, that moment of reckoning I had feared had arrived. I had fallen off my perch.
Such a fall is a kind of failure, and an intimation of that final and bigger crash. As the ambulance turned into St Mary’s, the paramedics renewed my passport to infirmity by asking if I could walk into A&E, or “would you prefer a wheelchair?” Would I, hell! This Friday afternoon was becoming a civil war between two kinds of self, the proud v the vulnerable. From 20 years’ experience, I was reluctantly being reminded of something I had come to know so well: we live in our bodies.
As I made my way down a long linoleum passage to check in with A&E, as though at a Holiday Inn, I found myself contemplating some alarming “what ifs?”. What if my fall had resulted in concussion, or worse, brain damage? What if it indicated a more sinister problem? What if I was no longer immune, as hitherto, to neuro-degenerative side-effects? What if I was not discharged? What if…?
As my equilibrium returned, I wondered how I might seem to the others waiting patiently next to me. As the victim of an assault? As a middle-class professional with an unexplained head-wound? A posh vagrant? We were a strange and ill-assorted bunch, rather less afflicted by the evidence of “accident” or “emergency” than you might imagine: an overweight Iranian businessman in a shiny suit, nervously engrossed with his BlackBerry; a pregnant woman and her mother, both in black; a small, ferrety, white-faced boy with his right hand wrapped in a dish cloth; and Brendan, a stage-Irish drunk, well known to the staff of St Mary’s, who was now singing quietly to himself as he carefully removed his shoes and socks to inspect his very smelly feet.
Ever since, as a teenager, I first stumbled on the unforgettable opening line of Murphy (“The sun shone, having no alternative, on the nothing new”), Samuel Beckett has been a favourite writer. At this moment, in the aftermath of my fall, I knew that Beckett would become my guide to life in the foreseeable future, whatever that turned out to be. Words are still the best weapons with which to come to terms with ageing, and what Beckett calls “failing better”.
In the more than 40 years since I left college, like the schoolmaster Holofernes in Love’s Labour’s Lost, I have eaten paper and drunk ink; at first, as the editor-in-chief of the publishers Faber & Faber from 1980 to 1996, and then as literary editor of the Observer from 1996 to 2008. Books and print have been a guide, a consolation, and a modus operandi. For me, experience has often been refracted through novels, poems, and plays.
Turn a page, and you find a new distraction, or another version of reality. Is this not the search for a fuller kind of experience? Art, which helps us focus on our quality of life, also inspires a richer understanding of our mortal existence.
Here, at St Mary’s, in the short run, the waiting was over. After a couple of tedious hours, my number came up and soon I was admitted to the treatment zone, lying in a private cubicle, behind a flimsy blue curtain, being examined by a very practical, friendly young doctor whose refreshingly down-to-earth approach was to offer a choice between a) a full scan and a battery of diagnostic tests, or b) a bandage for my head injuries (no stitches needed), some painkillers, and a taxi home. “What you probably want,” she said, with a winning smile, “is a nice hot shower.”
There’s nothing so soothing as that old English cocktail of normality and no-fuss, also known as the sweet illusion of continuity. So of course I chose b), and went back to my regular life. By seven o’clock that evening, while the long summer day was still burning in the late afternoon streets, I was back in my flat, and showering off the bitter aftertaste of A&E. But I didn’t go to the wedding, and something had changed.
As Petruchio puts it in The Taming of the Shrew, “Where is the life that late I led?” On this day, I had passed a fateful frontier of experience, and was no longer as blithe or as nonchalant as once I’d been. The afternoon of 27 June 2014 had witnessed a decisive personal transition: in this new world, where the endgame must be played out, nothing would ever seem quite the same again. I had survived my fall, and was still 100% myself. And yet… Together with the crossing of that immense psychological frontier – turning 60 – my own consciousness had experienced a subtle shift.
The irrepressible dreams of youth morph into a more subtle communion with time’s reckoning
My fall had dumped me, metaphorically, outside an almost tangible threshold. Through a door, at the end of a sinister corridor is a glittering and majestic jet-black arch from which there can be no turning away. Perhaps, in the shower, I hoped to drown the apprehensions of old age. Yet, in some secret chamber of self-awareness, I was conscious that, like Prospero in The Tempest, I should now begin to acknowledge an inevitable rendezvous. Shakespeare’s magician is talking about retirement, and I have no plans to retire, just yet, but the mood that governs his return to his dukedom is one that any sixtysomething can relate to:
Go quick away: the story of my lifeAnd the particular accidents gone by…I’ll bring to your ship, and so to Naples…And then retire me to my Milan, whereEvery third thought shall be my grave.
There’s no getting away from the tick-tock of biological life. In the words of the Psalms, “The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow.” When I turned 60 in 2013, my first reaction was to fudge it. For about a year, I pretended I was 59 or, if I could get away with it, 57. Secretly, I made a simple and sobering calculation on my iPhone of how long I’d got. Assuming about 10 years left of my biblical span, just how many days, hours, and minutes remained? My score (give or take some leap years) looked something like this: 3,650 days 87,000 hours 5.25m minutes
With that data in front of me, things seemed alarmingly finite. Look closer, if you want. Humanity has a clever way with the kind of introspection that might otherwise disable the will to live. It prefers to tell stories, at first through myth and religion, and lately through culture and psychoanalysis. Thus the bright, irrepressible dreams of youth morph into a more subtle communion with time’s reckoning, a roster of regrets which, in certain lights, can look like a catalogue of failure.
Most of these regrets are trivial (wishing I’d spent more time in the Australian outback; wondering about skiing the Alps, or trekking to the Forbidden City); some are sentimental expressions of wishful thinking (what if I’d stayed studying in Cambridge; what if I’d not at first married so young; what if I’d lived in New York; what if…?). A few are more painful, sombre re-evaluations of personal shortcomings.
With the onset of these later years, the fragile self finds that “less is more”, and learns to moderate its youthful egotism. Young people think they are immortal, and that the world revolves around them. Older people know they are mortal, that their future is not infinite, and also that they must take their place in the scheme of things. On my visit to St Mary’s, Paddington, after my fall, I was forced to acknowledge this. Was I, for instance, the same person who had been wheeled, semi-conscious, into hospital in 1995?
Well, yes and no. For 20 years, thanks to a lucky spin of the genetic lottery, my recovery had been good. To outward appearance, I was comparatively unchanged. I would always walk with a mild limp, but my left arm (paralysed in 1995) was now, in physio-speak, quite “useful”. Indeed, my physical strength, stimulated by whatever exercise I could manage, had probably increased.
Unlike many stroke sufferers, I had been able to return to work, in the competitive arena of the British media. Here, occasionally, conversation will sometimes default to questions of appearance more readily than to issues of press freedom. Last week, meeting JP, an ex-BBC friend, after some years’ hiatus, the dialogue went as follows:
Me: You look well.
J: Well, I still have hair, and so do you.
Me: Hair is what counts.
J: It’s good to have hair after 60. Hair is what really matters at our age. Etc.
So much for the challenges of “fake news” and the 24/7 news-cycle.
Inwardly, however, I had begun to detect the first hints of a slowing down, a slight but (to me) perceptible loss of acceleration. My daily coping strategies, perfected over many years to compensate for the various small physical deficits attributable to stroke, were no longer as effective as before.
Achingly, my body has wishes it cannot fulfil. In this state of frustration, a movie classic like Singin’ in the Rain becomes a kind of torture, offering an invitation to the spontaneous thrill of a dance that I can neither accept nor even contemplate. When I watch those scenes with Gene Kelly, immobility feels like a prison.
Compared with many stroke sufferers, I’m lucky. My walking disability is minor. I am still my old self, sort of. My progress is often slow and can be laborious, but I’m independent. Lately, I find that in crowds, at airports and train stations, I prefer to use a cane. The upshot is that even the smallest journey each day has to be planned in advance. If I drive to the shops for milk or bread, shall I also go to the bank? Can I park close enough to Barclays to be able to cross the road to Sainsbury’s afterwards?
If I arrange to meet a friend in the West End, can I drive to the rendezvous, or shall I find a “disabled” parking bay and take a bus or taxi for the last mile? What if it’s raining? How will I get back? How congested will the traffic be? On and on it goes: every day becomes an accumulation of a thousand internal transactions in which nothing can be taken for granted.
One of the things about ageing that no one talks about openly, or at best in whispers, is shame, the mortification of being “unfit”. It’s so fundamental that we learn to disguise it. After my fall, I made light of it to friends, and went to some lengths to distract attention from my cuts and bruises. My “forever young” mindset insisted that there should be no scars, and that my body should not let me down.
This was almost certainly deluded. Frankly, I’m not what I was, and it’s beginning to prey on my mind. My inventory of dissolution, north to south, goes something like this. At least, looking on the bright side, as my ex-BBC friend observed, I have hair and it is only hinting at grey. Elsewhere, other exterior parts have become vulnerable to inexplicable moles and growths. So far, on closer examination, these have turned out to be benign. Venture into the interior, however, and there’s trouble brewing: my teeth need regular maintenance, and I’m getting long in the tooth – with receding gums that are prone to bleed. I cannot see this screen without reading glasses.
Further down, my chest will intermittently be seared with heartburn. There’s an inexorable sagging of the pectorals and a thickening of the waist. If I stop to think about it, I feel bad about my bum. From the stroke, my left arm and hand have intractable “deficits” which means that I am typing this with a super-dexterous right hand. Both knees are crocked, my left leg is semi-paralysed (more “deficits” there), and both feet, from soles to ankles, have the tingling pins-and-needles sensation of peripheral neuropathy.
As Flaubert pragmatically once observed, 'Everything must be learned, from reading to dying'
I used to say that, as a stroke recoverer, I believed in celebrating normality and the active life, as far as possible. Towards the end of My Year Off, an account of those convalescent years, I even compiled a list of Dos and Don’ts. Today that list has become distilled and simplified:
1. Try to keep fit2. Accept your fate/insignificance3. Live in the moment
To me, the mystery of death and dying is only equalled by the mystery of life and living. Consoling narratives must be patched together from transient fragments of experience. So why not celebrate “nowness” and live in the present? Discover the joy of wisdom and experience. Cherish your family. Celebrate the human drama in all its magical variety.
In truth, there is no other sensible narrative available. Unless you believe in an afterlife – which I don’t – this must be the only way forward. It may be a hard lesson but, as Flaubert pragmatically once observed, “Everything must be learned, from reading to dying”. On the other hand, there are also the mysterious revolutions of luck, the wheel of chance – and thereby hangs a tale. This is where I close, with a new and unexpected kind of love story.
We met under a crab-apple tree, just outside Salisbury, in the garden of some mutual friends, during a summer lunch party. It was a long time ago: about 10 years.
I was contentedly married to [my wife] Sarah, going full tilt with family life. Our daughters, Alice and Isobel, who can’t have been much more than nine and seven, respectively, were tearing up and down the grass with their friends.
And there I was, sitting at a garden table, watching these tiny riots of childhood breaking out around me when this rather elfin, smiling woman, almost “a girl” (the word she would shortly use to describe the other mums on the grass), came up to say hello. She had just read my (1997) memoir My Year Off. Her mother was recovering from a stroke, she said, with swift, disarming candour. Perhaps we could talk?
What did I say, and what did we discuss? I have no memory, but I cannot forget the sensations of that conversation with Emma – she had introduced herself very easily as she sat down opposite me at the table.
I remember the sunshine bursting round us through the green web of overhanging branches. I think I remember drinking rosé, and feeling stunned and slightly exhilarated by Emma’s effortless and gracious manner. We were talking about matters of life and death, and she was mixing gravity with laughter in the most infectious way, drawing me out, and opening me up with a deft sequence of highly personal questions about the aftermath of my “brain attack”.
I have never minded to share the experience of my stroke, but this was more than sharing. This was in danger of becoming self-revelation. I remember thinking: I will tell you everything. Ask me any question, and I’ll answer, yes and yes, I will… Oh, whistle and I’ll come to you. And so we talked.
At some point, distracted by the children, I turned round to discover that Emma had vanished as silently as she had appeared. I recall wondering if I should ask our hostess about this mysterious guest, but thought better of it: don’t go there.
Lunch ended; the long summer’s day faded into twilight; we all piled into family cars to go home, and everyday life filled the void once more.
Ten years passed. Everyday life turned cold and bitter. I cannot explain the sad end of my marriage to Sarah except to confess that our love died, for no obvious reason, a painful admission. A break-up is like a death in the family. We went through the stages of denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and finally (yes, there was counselling: a fruitless attempt to scramble into a lifeboat long after the ship had gone down) acceptance. Somehow, we survived, salvaging scraps of parental continuity and coherence from the wreckage of family life in London and New York.
I had always known that the life of the stroke survivor is often cursed by divorce and depression. To begin with, I believed I had somehow escaped these furies. But now the professional frustrations of midlife, mixed with the rallentando of getting on in years, contributed to an overwhelming sense of decline and failure. Sarah’s departure for her former New York home in July 2013 seemed to set the seal on a vicious downward spiral in my life cycle. The third act that beckoned hardly seemed to be an enticing prospect.
Alone in a new flat in west London, I began to negotiate an uncertain way forward as a single man in his late 50s. Solitude has its attractions, especially after the catastrophe of a failed marriage. Having time to read and reflect, to re-evaluate the important parts of my life and career, was quite appealing. We all need a room of our own.
At the same time, while the security of my bachelor apartment was a liberation, it was also a prison. I was lonely. In darker moments, I imagined that it would be my fate to be ageing and solitary for years to come. In this defeated mood, I was grateful for any distraction, and quickly came to accept weekend invitations.
In retrospect, I was too numb with sadness to understand what was happening. Single friends, who understood how to navigate this stage of life, had advised me to book up my weekends, and to make good plans for Christmas. I understood that they were right, but had so far done precisely nothing about it.
But then, in the autumn of 2013, about three months after Sarah’s departure, my friends, the —s, under whose crab-apple tree I had conversed with Emma all those years before, suggested a weekend in Dorset at the beginning of November. Why not? Better start somewhere.
As the date approached, I found a message on my mobile: could I give one of their weekend guests a lift on Friday evening?
I thought no more about it, conducted a brief exchange of texts about a possible departure time and suitable rendezvous, and answered the buzzer in my flat late on a Friday afternoon with only the most fleeting speculation about my passenger, a woman whose unfamiliar name had become attached to an anonymous mobile phone number.
I took the lift down to the gloomy hallway, and hurried into the street through the heavy glass doors of the apartment block in which I was now living. Outside, it was cold and grey, with imminent autumn rain. There was, apparently, no one waiting. I turned to look round, glancing down the pavement. This was the moment – a scene from an improbably romantic movie – I will never forget.
Standing there, with a single suitcase, beneath her umbrella, slight and solitary and self-possessed, was the girl from the crab-apple tree. “Hi,” said Emma, lighting up with her lovely, heartbreaking smile. “Haven’t we met before?”
• Every Third Thought by Robert McCrum is published by Picador (14.99) on 24 August. To order a copy for £12.74 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
There are two processions in La Bayadère. The most famous is in the scene known as the Kingdom of the Shades, in which 32 ghostly girls in white tutus move down a shallow slope into death, and with grave dignity and profound synchronicity perform a sequence of tilted arabesques. It is the vision of classical ballet as most people know it. The other comes earlier, at an engagement party. This one features girls with parrots on their wrists, a Golden Idol carried aloft on a tray, a stage elephant and a stuffed tiger that owes more to Disney than to the jungle.
What makes the Mariinsky such a great company, one that you must watch if you want to understand anything about ballet, is that they dance both with the same conviction, keeping their traditions alive with the sheer quality of their dancing and the depth of their belief.
Viktoria Tereshkina has a depth, a sense of emotion in all she does that springs from the dancing itself
La Bayadère concluded the Mariinsky’s three‑week London season and showed them at their best. They’ve been dancing this bonkers tribute to the exoticism of the east in one version or another since Marius Petipa first choreographed it in 1877, and it’s in the bones of their style. It may feature one of the more preposterous plots in a crowded field, and a limp lettuce of a hero in the form of Solor, the tiger warrior, who is torn between his love for Nikiya, the temple dancer of the title, and Gamzatti, the rajah’s daughter, but it also contains some of the most beautiful choreography ever created.
The Mariinsky dance it not only with their hearts, but with a business-like purity. They just get on with it whether they are Sofia Ivanova-Skoblikova, gracefully balancing a jug on her head, or Renata Shakirova, Yana Selina and May Nagahisa as the soloists in front of a magnificent corps de ballet of melancholy Shades.
Leading the entire company were Kimin Kim and Viktoria Tereshkina. Kim seems to soar over the stage, weightless in the air, hanging in space, cat-soft in his landings. He brings extraordinary freedom to the steps. They are accurately formed and yet seem utterly without effort.
Tereshkina is a phenomenon. Technically gifted, there is nothing she cannot do. Here she lent a fierce energy to Nikiya’s snake dance, staggering precision to her pirouettes and jumps, and then a melting beauty to her appearance as a ghost, shaping each lovely pose with care. She also has the depth I associate with a Mariinsky ballerina, a sense of emotion in all she does that springs from the dancing itself.
That was on display in Contrasts too, a triple bill designed to show the company’s versatility. In this it partially succeeded, although the only reason now to watch the heavy-handed symbolism of Alberto Alonso’s Carmen Suite, choreographed in 1967, is the opportunities it affords to its central ballerina. Diana Vishneva, a Mariinsky goddess, was hugely expressive, both sexy and vulnerable, and almost saved the work from itself. But then Fate appeared in a black bodysuit and it all got a bit silly.
The evening ended with a pastel-pretty reconstruction, by Yuri Burlaka, of Petipa’s Grand Pas from Paquita, more showing-off of the highest order danced with supreme elegance by Tereshkina and the soaring Vladimir Shklyarov, with glorious variations from Ekaterina Kondaurova among others.
Kondaurova is another ballerina you want to watch, her personality as strong as her technique. She was outstanding as the girl who screams in Infra, the Wayne McGregor piece that was, in many ways, the revelation of the evening. It was brave of the Mariinsky to bring it, since it is so familiar to Royal Ballet audiences.
Yet these dancers – it has an exceptionally strong cast – transform it into something new and strange, finding in its intricate patterns a different lineage, drawing on their heritage but sending its contemporary shapes spinning out into time and space.
Star ratings (out of five):La Bayadère ★★★★★Contrasts ★★★★
Top calls in this year’s fringe comedy bingo – where punters make a mental tick each time jokes on the same subjects occur in shows – are (as you might expect) Donald Trump, Brexit, running through wheat fields and, more randomly, bonobo chimps. Cue filthy jokes, as bonobos, like humans, have sex for fun as well as procreation.
Another on this year’s card is privilege – in all its forms – as comedians examine some of today’s big issues, and foremost among those who tackle race head-on is Reginald D Hunter, an African American from Georgia but transplanted here 20 years ago. He’s therefore ideally placed to cast a beady eye on the British, as he does to great effect in Some People vs Reginald D Hunter (Assembly Hall).
He loves living here, he says, because “British racists don’t shoot you”, and he helpfully explains why Trump is now US president and why we voted for Brexit. As ever with Hunter, a great fringe favourite, this is a provocative hour full of big laughs, even if he occasionally pushes the limits of good taste.
Dane Baptiste (Pleasance Courtyard) rose through the urban comedy circuit and has become one of standup’s most acute social observers. He takes a less direct route into the politics of race, talking about being a young black man in Britain in G.O.D. (Gold, Oil, Drugs), which describes our pursuit of wealth, power and pleasure. Baptiste can jump from the everyday – how job centres are not the best place to look for a date – to the inspired; he uses the theory of relativity to explain the Black Lives Matter movement.
Relativity of another kind with Giants, a very talented sketch duo comprising Barney Fishwick and Will (son of Private Eye editor Ian) Hislop. They were born four days apart 24 years ago, and in Giants: For an Hour (Pleasance Courtyard) they go meta as they examine their lifelong friendship through the deconstruction of the comedy duo relationship.
They appear as themselves, various people from their childhood, and intermittently as Lars and Ulrich of Fjord, a Norwegian duo who once performed at Eurovision. They invented the heavily accented “bad boys” – who sing songs about naughty things such as riding their bikes without holding the handlebars – as youngsters, but now drama student Barney wants to leave such childish things behind, while Will feels it’s the only attachment he still has to his friend. The unequal double-act trope is well-trodden territory, but this show is fresh, original and superbly written and performed.
In I, Fillum Star (Pleasance Courtyard) Dave Johns recounts how he, a hard-working geordie club comic, became the star of Ken Loach’s 2015 polemic I, Daniel Blake and was catapulted to stardom despite being the “least likely film star you’ll ever meet”. He’s proud of his origins – you can spot the working class, he says, by the “bits of scratchcards under our fingernails” – and the show is a playful and joyful account of how he went from considering a retirement business of donkey rides on the beach to name-dropping his new best friends on the red carpet – Meryl, Nicole and Woody. It’s not a polished show, but the showbiz anecdotes from someone still pinching himself that it happened to him are worth an hour of your time.
Ravens conjures up Kirsty Wark, Hillary Clinton, Angela Merkel and 'wee gobshite' Nicola Sturgeon
Another bingo call this year is relationship breakups, in rather more detail than the audience is entirely comfortable with, and Sara Pascoe in LadsLadsLads (Pleasance Courtyard) recounts the aftermath of the end of a four-year partnership.
She’s back at the fringe having written a book and done a lot of television work, and the break has served her well. Pascoe is noticeably more comfortable on stage, and this hour is more personal and less didactic than previous shows.
What follows is a declaration of independence from a feminist comic dismissed by one bloke as “too tampon-y”, having happily relaunched herself as a singleton – in her view the default setting for humans. “We’re not Twixes – we’re Peperamis,” she says. (Incidentally, Pascoe’s ex, fellow comic John Robins, gives his version of the breakup in his show at the same venue, so you can do a compare and contrast.)
Running through that comedy wheat field is impressionist Jan Ravens, star of Radio 4’s Dead Ringers and, remarkably, making her solo Edinburgh debut with Difficult Woman (Gilded Balloon). Her most acclaimed impression is of our dear prime minister, alluded to in the title: frollicking vicar’s daughter Theresa May, whose tremulous tones are “like she’s doing her own descant”.
The vast lineup Ravens conjures – including Kirsty Wark, Hillary Clinton, Angela Merkel, Arlene Foster, the sleepy Diane Abbott and “wee gobshite” Nicola Sturgeon, complete with her head nodding to punctuate every other word – is astonishing in its array and characterisation, all done without the aid of props or wigs. The standup routine that links the characters isn’t always tip-top, but the script, when they do speak, is whipsmart, and her Victoria Wood, in a pitch-perfect rendition of Wood’s songwriting and performance style, is a clever and touching tribute. No bonobo jokes, but you can’t have everything.
• The Edinburgh fringe continues until 28 August (0131 226 0000)
Originally begun as an EP during sessions for the Wakefield grunge-punk trio’s ambitious 2012 album In the Belly of the Brazen Bull, 24/7 Rock Star Shit has a more vintage Cribs spirit – the most aggressively raw they’ve sounded in years. Recorded live in just five days, this back-to-basics flipside to 2015’s poppy For All My Sisters has little to offer those not already positively disposed towards the Cribs’ basics – mordant lyrics, tetanus-jab guitars and raucous woah-ohh-ohh choruses – but the likes of Dendrophobia, with its haywire licks and raw scream of “we can’t afford each other”, and In Your Palace have an irresistible energy.
The life-affirming story of a group of young African American female high-school students whose participation in a dance team helps them rise above the hardships of their daily lives, Step is the kind of highly polished, synthetic documentary that makes my teeth hurt. There’s a slickness to this storytelling that makes everything feel slightly fraudulent, even if it isn’t. And yet I kind of loved it. Or if not the documentary itself, I loved the characters. Blessin, the strikingly beautiful founder of the school step team, is a fizzing firecracker who threatens to burn out. Cori, the super-bright student whose quiet pride in her accomplishments lights up her home, even when the electricity is cut off. And Tayla, mortified by her overly enthusiastic mom, but grateful to her at the same time.
It may be more multiplex-friendly than the intimate teen girl confessional All This Panic, (released earlier this year). But perhaps, when it comes to delivering a message of empowerment, that’s not necessarily a bad thing.
“That’s not right…” The taxi driver and I had been talking about Chill Habibi, the Arab-Scottish cabaret at Summerhall. I’d repeated the compere’s stories about the difficulties Arab artists are having getting visas. “It’s called the international festival,” the driver said. “It’s meant to break down borders.”
This turned out to be the theme of my festival week. Is it chance, unconscious selection or antennae to the zeitgeist? This year, almost all the shows I’ve seen revolve around identity, belonging, rejection and acceptance; the breaking down of borders, real and imaginary. Between shows, the city’s crowded streets come to seem like a celebration of togetherness – when they aren’t a human barrier of leaflet-wavers, costume-wearers and punters blocking routes between venues.
“They’re beached. We have to help them.” On a windy corner outside Assembly George Square theatre, a pod of Whales (in fact a group of volunteers in wet suits) flaps its fins. More volunteers spray them with water. This is the Wellington-based Binge Culture collective, part of a season celebrating New Zealand artists: “Look them in the eyes,” the speaker calls. “Sing. Make contact.” Voices join a haunting melody: “Ngā iwi e”. “It’s a Māori song,” someone tells me, “about people pulling together and standing strong.” The whales return to the ocean (or top of the steps). “That was strangely moving,” says a Scottish voice beside me.
I was at primary school when, in 1966, 116 children and 28 adults in the Welsh village of Aberfan were buried beneath colliery spoil. I shall never forget what I saw on television that day. That’s why I wanted to see Neil Anthony Docking’s The Revlon Girl (Assembly Roxy). Now, I shall never forget the play either; its cloud-scuddingly fast changes between light and dark, laughter and tears. Based on the true story of bereaved Aberfan mothers who, ashamed to seem frivolous, secretly invited a Revlon sales rep to one of their weekly meetings to give them beauty tips, this is a study in the masks grief wears, and what it takes and what it might mean to put on a brave face. There are stupendous performances from the five actors, whose highly individual characters refract universal suffering and resilience.
Dundonian by dialect, Asian by birth, adolescent Jaimini is torn between cultures and obsessed by the spectre of Idi Amin, self-proclaimed last king of Scotland. When Amin expelled Asians from Uganda in 1972, the writer Jaimini Jethwa was just a child. Her family, forced to flee their comfortable home, eventually settled in the unfamiliar surroundings of a housing scheme in the “D” – Dundee. The Last Queen of Scotland (Underbelly, Cowgate) is a fiction based around these real events. Jaimini’s emotional journey back to Uganda, in search of her true self and her place in her community, is evoked by two women. Rehanna MacDonald is a confused, angry, questing Jaimina; singer-songwriter Patricia Panther plays supporting roles and, sitting at a computer, the live soundtrack. What the performance occasionally lacks in pace it makes up for in passionate intensity.
The world has turned grey. Until Jihan’s Smile (Summerhall) returns, the sun and moon cannot shine. Jihan’s father sends a talking bird to fetch experts from abroad to help bring back his daughter’s smile. But it’s the local boy who realises the answer does not lie outside but within. With five actors and a musician, puppets and masks, Al-Harah Theater – based in the West Bank in Palestine – perform this children’s tale in English and Arabic. Accompanying adults might enjoy the multiple levels in the story, but what about the youngsters? Did you like it, I ask a brother and sister of about seven and 11. “Yes.” Would you recommend it to your friends? “Yes!”
Manual Cinema’s world is meant to be grey. On a huge screen the US company projects shadows created by puppets, actors and cut-outs. With these they create cinematic effects – close-ups, long shots, etc –in full view of the audience. In Lula del Ray (Underbelly Med Quad), these live manipulations unfurl the story of a young girl’s coming of age via conflict with her mother and disillusionment with pop idols (lovely live music). The artistry is exquisite but sometimes upstages a rather slow-moving storyline.
The colourful and lively conflicts between Auntie (Laughing Horse @ 48 Below), who hails from the pan-African state of Kengeria, and her gay, mixed-race, London-based son, Mtoto, are based around the experiences of their creator, Gavino di Vino. His characters are exuberantly idiosyncratic, yet their views on race and sexuality expose contemporary hypocrisies and reveal poignant pain. If di Vino’s act feels, as yet, embryonic, I imagine Dame Edna Everage, on her first outings, would have made a similar impression: not quite formed, but brimming with wicked potential.
A man in a grey suit sits on a park bench flanked by a briefcase and sandwiches. He writes on a piece of paper, screws it up, discards it, begins to talk: “Even as the sun...” Gently he entices us into the world of Venus and Adonis (C-Primo) as imagined by Shakespeare, the goddess of love seeking sexual satisfaction from the youth who, rejecting the advances, pleads with her: “Before I know myself, seek not to know me.” Christopher Hunter is the narrator, the goddess, the boy, a stallion chasing a mare. I thought I would not see anything else so finely crafted, so movingly delivered for the rest of the fringe.
And then I saw Tash Marshall. Alone in an empty space she creates the world of an English village where “I am that mixed-race kid... Around here I’m about as black as it goes.” Half Breed (Assembly George Square) is the semi-autobiographical story of a 17-year-old girl faced with choices – facing up to prejudice and rejection, discovering within herself the person she might become. Vivid characters; split-second changes; intelligent analysis delivered with emotional intensity – as writer and as performer, Marshall is breathtaking.
Exquisite artistry, often delivered at dizzying speed, is provided by the acrobats, jugglers, dancers and all-round extraordinary people who make up Quebec’s Cirque Éloize. Cirkopolis (Pleasance at EICC) takes its visual inspiration from Fritz Lang’s 1927 expressionist film Metropolis. Against back projections of giant cogs and endless-seeming colonnaded corridors, stifling bureaucracy is subverted by untrammelled movement. At times the fast format and loud, pre-recorded soundtrack block contact between stage and auditorium, but the acts are never less than spectacular.
How to resist a play about football after the England team’s near triumph last month? Offside (Pleasance Courtyard), by Sabrina Mahfouz and Hollie McNish, is not just a term to describe a rule in the beautiful game; it’s also a state of mind, a position in society. Three actors nimbly pass the action from pasts (1892 and 1921) to present as their characters tackle obstacles on and off the pitch. Issues covered include race, body image, mental health and media intrusion, but the team keep their eyes firmly fixed on their goal – to engage and entertain.
Woman or beast? Captured in the forests of Borneo, after growing up in a pride of lions, and transported to 1861 Holland, Lilith: The Jungle Girl (Traverse) is torn between the human and animal kingdoms. Subjected to scientific examination in a lab; rejected by the big cats in the zoo, her only hope is the opera. This zany three-hander from Australia’s Sisters Grimm is gloriously absurd, but its promised satire slithers across too many targets to take hold.
Because nobody would cast them in the roles they believed they were destined to play, actors Helen Norton and Jonathan White took matters into their own hands and wrote To Hell in a Handbag (Assembly Rooms). This comic gem follows Canon Chasuble and Miss Prism beyond their exit from The Importance of Being Earnest, into their private worlds of secrets and lies. The dialogue, delivered with impeccable timing and modulation, is light, wicked, artful. Never straining to imitate Oscar, it strikes a satisfyingly Wildean tone. Altogether a hoot of an instant classic.
In a mayhem of computer-smashing cabaret only just contained by compere Miss Annabel Sings, Dive Queer Party celebrate fun (queer or otherwise). One speaker on their Rainbow Soapbox (Traverse) encourages: “Take fun seriously and we just might change the world” – a fitting motto for this festival.
A rapacious, property-developing mayor threatens the city park home of Surly Squirrel (Will Arnett) and friends in a story that, for a fleeting moment, feels like a rodent version of Francesco Rosi’s Hands Over the City. This soon dissolves into a frenetic, madcap caper that sees Surly enlist the help of kung fu master Mr Feng (Jackie Chan), the impossibly cute “weapon of mass destruction”. It’s a decent if unexceptional family option.
The allegorical monster lizard gets a reboot and, while Tokyo remains its stamping ground, there is a new target for Godzilla’s not-so-subtle political commentary. This enjoyable but dialogue-heavy addition to the Godzilla family takes aim at the inert, top-heavy bureaucracy of Japanese government. Rigorously symmetrical static shots document the endless, unproductive official meetings; meanwhile, the team of mavericks who might just save the city are filmed with a dynamic, nervy camera. Pity that the CGI monster is a laughably ropey creation, with googly eyes and lasers shooting out of every orifice.
When it starts raining on the slate roof of the Grade II-listed, late Georgian north London house where the architects Anna Liu and Mike Tonkin have their home and office, it gathers in a black downpipe on the rear wall. This is normal. What happens next is not. Before it gets to the bottom, like a stunt plane exiting a death dive, the pipe turns, curves and then swoops into a more shallow descent, then goes up a bit, then down again, before terminating in a non-figurative gargoyle about two metres off the ground, from which the rainwater, after a delay while it gathers enough pressure to push itself through the elaborate pipage, then gushes.
Which turns out to be only one move of several in an architectural rain dance. The gargoyle discharges into a long black steel trough that, if a switch is flicked, then overflows via concealed pipework in such a way that water starts rising through the joints between dark granite paving in a small courtyard. Should it be night-time, horizontal lasers can be switched on, which capture drops with illumination as they fall and bounce. If it’s day and the sun comes out, rippling light will reflect off the wet paviours, bouncing around surrounding surfaces of glass, mirror and whiteness. All this irrigation and solar energy eventually manifests itself as vigorous vegetation, a touch exotic and tropical, some of it growing out of the planted roof that partially encircles the court.
The Sun Rain Room, as this work is accurately called, may be the architectural project with the most meteorology per square metre since Noah built the ark. The architects say they want it to be “a good place to be on a bad day”. Because of the doubling and dissolving of the reflective surfaces, it takes a while to realise how little usable space is actually added – just a big wall cupboard to house a barbecue, a potting shed and such like, an enclosed area big enough for a smallish dining table and another, sheltered but external, where you can also eat. Mostly, it’s a machine for enjoying the weather.
There is also a room underneath, the bedroom of a basement flat, added late in the gestation of the project when it became clear that the mathematics of property prices in the London borough of Islington would more than repay the cost of construction. It is thus a (relatively modest) addition to the new basementism that elsewhere in the capital has seen swimming pools and vintage car collections put underground. But here the main object of the work – which has taken 12 years to complete since it was a gleam in Tonkin and Liu’s eye, and whose cost of £235,000 would be much greater if they hadn’t put a lot of their own time and ingenuity into the construction – is to allow the full enjoyment of a small London garden that somehow they hadn’t used much.
Its style, superficially, is a sort of retro-futurism, the 21st century as seen from the 1960s and 70s, a bit Kubrick, a bit Woody Allen in Sleeper, white and swooshy, engaging but hard now to look at without the condescending thought that the future didn’t turn out quite like this. Tonkin Liu, who made their name with a series of singular private homes and makeovers of public spaces, are fond of this style, though they’re fluid enough not to be a one-look practice. There is a bit of it in a bridge they have proposed for Salford, and the interiors of a clifftop house in Dover.
The Sun Rain Room is also more than this. Tonkin refers to his early years working for an architectural reclamation company in Bath, where he “learned so much about classical detailing”. While there is absolutely nothing neo-Georgian about their design, he says, it has picked up cues from the house it extends, taking, for example, twists and curves from the old stairs and banisters. The architects also say they’re re-enacting on a smaller scale the interaction between hard architecture and lush planting that you get in the composition of the town square their house faces, with a big garden in the middle.
The curving ceiling around the edge of the courtyard is punctured by small, glass-domed holes that admit discs of light, like little suns. The holes are at the end of inverted lunar craters whose curved concentric contours are then picked out in fine relief. The repeating curved lines consciously echo the waves of reflection that play across them. They modulate light and shadow in a way somewhat like the subtle recessions and projections of Georgian glazing bars and panelling.
The old house itself is mostly painted white, with mirrors inset at opportune moments – behind shelves, in cupboard doors – such that they dematerialise the walls and fold views of external greenery and weather into the interior. They help to set up a continuum of light, reflection and dissolving surfaces that, while it’s clear where the old stops and the new starts, runs from the square garden through the house to the back of the Sun Rain Room.
It has required patience and effort to achieve – negotiating the legalities of small London sites with many neighbours, waiting for financial stars to align, managing the construction themselves to keep costs down, working with sympathetic subcontractors. Two leading engineers have made possible the project’s structurally ambitious ideas. One, Tim Macfarlane, assisted with an all-glass staircase that maximises the light reaching the basement and glows at night with light coming from below. Another, Rodrigues Associates, has helped achieve the exceptionally thin profile of the curving roof. Its plywood structure was assembled with the help of students from three London architecture schools.
In the end, the hard construction and hard work serve intangibles and subtle substances such as light, atmosphere and nature, things that, as Tonkin and Liu say, “don’t cost anything”. A world is constructed of dissolution, floating, evanescence and inversion in which opposites combine. There are plants on the roof and water on the floor. The stairs are glass. It’s techno-natural and futuro-Georgian.
With so many ideas in a small place it could all be too much. With so many devices and contraptions, there’s a risk they might not function as well as advertised. But one of the impressive things about the Sun Rain Room is the degree of thought given to things like proportion, lines of sight and the shade of materials to put behind water, such that its drops and ripples become visible. It works.
There’s an attractive confidence to this skank-pop-punk debut from the NME’s best new artist of 2016. Solid, road-tested hits Move and Sign On jostle for attention with twitchily aggressive new tracks such as I’ll Be Waiting and Boiling Point. Over 17 songs and endless clunky interludes, however, Rat Boy’s fake prole demotic and shallow social commentary become a bit wearing. Scum could do with a little more of the simplicity of Get Over It and the introspection of Sportswear. What starts off as a gang-signing, car-stealing, signing-on 21st-century Clash ends up as Jamie T robbing Jesus Jones, far more Westfield than Westway.
Grammy winner Ian Brennan is a producer on a mission; to capture the music of the forgotten and the dispossessed, a quest that has seen him record Cambodian war survivors and the inmates of Malawi’s Zomba Prison, among others. A trip to remote Rwanda delivered this collection of singers from the endangered Abatwa people, often accompanied by a one-string fiddle and battery-powered loop. Its dozen tracks are spartan but often charming and sometimes disquieting. The Hard Worker resembles a Cajun hoedown, Protect the Environment has mournful call-and-response vocals, while a 19-year-old female rapper delivers a tirade called The Child from the Streets. Remarkable.
Last year I was on a film festival jury that wound up, after several hours of finicky deliberation, giving our top prize to Julia Ducournau’s coming-of-cannibalistic-age nightmare Raw (Universal, 18). It was, to all of us, an unexpected vote of consensus for a film that seduces through repulsion. “What have we approved?” a fellow juror asked me with a grin as we delivered our verdict. Ducournau’s debut lands on screen like a live, throbbing heart plucked from its housing chest, wrapped in rose-coloured satin instead of butcher’s paper.
It doesn’t take long for a grisly grindhouse soul to emerge from its gleaming exterior. As the rituals of campus hazing take their dizzying toll on her, vegetarian veterinary student Justine (Garance Marillier) finds within herself a grislier kind of carnal urge than that usually felt by college kids. As a witty metaphor for the subversive powers of female sexuality, Raw bunks in the same sorority as Carrie and Ginger Snaps, though its most sense-searing excesses are very much its own. Ducournau sees as much body-horror potential here in a botched bikini wax as in a bout of literal knuckle-gnawing. A film in complete sympathy with its heroine’s extreme bodily desires, it’s as grossly red and as quiveringly tender as the best rare steak.
You won’t find any such queasy, gutsy colour in The Sense of an Ending (Studiocanal, 15). Ritesh Batra and Nick Payne’s adaptation of Julian Barnes’s Booker winner is consistently, comfortingly beige in both visual palette and emotional tenor, rarely raising its voice or pulse as its cardigan-sporting protagonist (Jim Broadbent) reflects stoically on a lifetime of stalled, sabotaged or misinterpreted relationships. It’s tasteful, considered stuff, its many fine actors playing as if in a solemn string ensemble, though the novel’s subtle human stakes turn a bit watery.
The drama of Clash (Arrow, 15), on the other hand, begins at a joltingly high pitch and clings to it for dear life. Set in 2013, Mohamed Diab’s immersive riot study follows the rough street warfare between Egyptian army supporters and the newly overthrown Muslim Brotherhood government, the camera fixed inside a single police van, where offenders from both factions have been bundled. It’s a tight tension exercise; as violence ricochets around them, the van itself seethes with conflict.
Bristling furiously in a lower key, Raoul Peck’s eloquent, Oscar-nominated documentary I Am Not Your Negro (Altitude, 12) celebrates the pointed prose of the author and civil rights activist James Baldwin, but isn’t a complacent retrospective. A present-day need and context for his decades-old social criticism are urgently and angrily articulated.
Still on the documentary front, and making a swift transfer from cinemas, Williams (Curzon Artificial Eye, 12) is a stout-hearted human history of adversity-stricken Formula One team founder Frank Williams that is as thoughtful as it is thorough for racing buffs. The straight-ahead presentation might not woo the unconverted, however.
Finally, some fluffier relief. The premise of Souvenir (Studiocanal, 12) – Isabelle Huppert is a washed-up ex-Eurovision star turned paté factory worker granted a second bite at the glitterball – is almost too delicious for any film to live up to. “Huppert sings!” the posters should cry. Bavo Defurne’s gentle bauble can’t quite support its leading lady’s sheer force of presence, but it’s hard to resist all the same. It’s certainly a more winning diversion than Going in Style (Warner, 12), a desultory geriatric bank heist comedy in which Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman practically collect their salary on camera.
For a high, comfortingly familiar laugh-to-gag ratio, turn instead to Netflix’s Wet Hot American Summer: Ten Years Later, an eight-episode extension of the oddly enduring, even more oddly endearing satirical summer-camp franchise that puppyishly delivers on every expected front and no additional ones besides. That will do. As long as Paul Rudd, Amy Poehler et al are still mugging in good spirits, the joke – an old one by now, yes, and never a wise one – remains funny.
Jess Thom, 37, is a performer and the co-founder of Touretteshero, an organisation that seeks to raise awareness about Tourette syndrome and campaigns for a more inclusive society. Born in London, Thom was formally diagnosed with the condition in her early 20s and exhibits both vocal and motor tics (her frequent involuntary use of the word “biscuit” provided the title for her first standup show, Backstage in Biscuit Land).
Thom’s latest show, co-performed with British sign language performer Charmaine Wombwell, is centred around a staging of Samuel Beckett’s Not I, a high-speed monologue in which only the actor’s mouth is illuminated by a single beam of light. It plays at the Pleasance Courtyard, Edinburgh, from 22-26 August.
What inspired you to tackle Not I?My creative collaborator, Matthew Pountney, introduced me to it at a time, before Touretteshero, when my tics were intensifying and I was finding it hard to recognise them as part of my body – just as Mouth struggles to recognise her own voice in Not I. I really identify Mouth as a neurodiverse character and feel that hers is – in part – my story to tell. There are lots of lines within that text that I can relate to on a very deep and personal level.
Could you give me some examples?Phrases like “stream of words” or “mouth on fire”, and the references to buzzing – there’s always a buzz wherever I am. There are moments where Mouth describes going to the nearest lavatory to pour out these words, to pour out her stream – and certainly one of the strategies when I was younger, as someone with Tourette’s, was to try to suppress my tics, hole them up, then let them out in private places.
The Beckett estate is famously restrictive, demanding that performers stick to the exact words and stage directions. How were they with you?They’ve been really supportive. We’ve been very clear from the beginning that we want to do a rigorous presentation of his work, and follow the stage directions as they are written, but in a way that works for my body. Certainly the way Not I has come to be performed wasn’t going to work for me. Being strapped still would have been really uncomfortable – I don’t think I’d have been able to do anything other than wiggle frantically. Now the spotlight is part of my costume, so that it moves with me as my mouth moves, because there isn’t anything that says that Mouth has to be still.
Do your vocal tics form part of the text?I don’t consciously suppress my tics – it’s definitely Beckett with “biscuit”s – and that’s been understood by the estate. What’s interesting is that when I put that text through my body at speed, some of my vocal tics are displaced, so they tend to simplify, though my motor tics perhaps increase slightly. But in the gaps, in the moments of pause within the text, the tics find their way out, and it’s like every “biscuit” that would have been there pistons out at speed.
I like that Beckett’s instruction to performers was not to act, because that’s not something that I have lots of experience of. But I do have lots of experience of automatic speech, so I was quite curious as to whether I’m actually at a neurological advantage. Speaking automatically is something that my body does every day, all the time.
Not I is famously tricky to perform. Did it take a long time to get to grips with it?Yes, but there’s an element of Tourette’s that can be quite obsessive and I definitely utilised that here. I’ve been learning Not I for over a year, and trying to make sure that it is really deeply embedded in my mind. Funnily, elements of the text have started to emerge as tics. It all gets very surreal at that point.
Are you planning to see any shows at Edinburgh while you’re there?I’m really looking forward to Cosmic Scallies, directed by Amit Sharma, and I’ll try to see Selina Thompson’s Salt. Edinburgh’s an amazing, overwhelming place to see different types of work.
I can’t think of any actor more deserving of their own pulpy action franchise than Charlize Theron. Having stolen Mad Max: Fury Road from Tom Hardy one-handed (literally), she is relentlessly, murderously brilliant in this adaptation of Antony Johnston’s graphic novel The Coldest City. The setting is Berlin just before the fall of the Wall; the paranoid hangover of the cold war is giving way to a new era of hungry opportunism. A British agent has been murdered; a valuable list is missing. And MI5 asset Lorraine Broughton (Theron, looking like Debbie Harry dipped in venom) is flown in to clear up the mess. There she butts heads with fellow agent David Percival (James McAvoy, skeevy-sexy, accessorised with beer sweats and casual treachery) and has a fling with rookie French spy Delphine (Sofia Boutella, lots of smouldering in fishnet body stockings).
First time director David Leitch favours a sleazy, neon aesthetic that looks like an X-rated, ultraviolent knock-off of a Duran Duran video. The soundtrack is a largely credible mix tape of 80s pop-rock featuring New Order, Depeche Mode, Siouxsie and the Banshees and, perhaps inevitably, Nena’s 99 Luftballons. But it’s in the action that Leitch, formerly a stunt co-ordinator and second unit director, shines. Most notable is the blitzkrieg of an action climax, a 10-minute “single shot” as ambitious as anything in Alfonso Cuarón’s Children of Men, which sees Lorraine crunch and batter her way in and back out of a dank East Berlin tenement, using guns, feet, fists, a two-ring hotplate, a corkscrew and a car to dispatch the Soviet agents on her tail. 
In fact, the appearance of a one-take sequence is created by seamlessly stitching together nearly 40 separate shots. But even knowing this doesn’t lessen the pulse-pounding, propulsive thrust. You forget to breathe. More importantly, you forget to question the needlessly complicated layers of double-crossing that clog up the third act of an otherwise impressively lean piece of storytelling.
You are in a multistorey car park. You don’t know where your car is. It must be in one of the four corners, on one of the seven levels, by one of those numberless pillars. But they all look the same. You can’t leave without the car and you cannot find it in the concrete labyrinth. This is the modern city.
The familiar scenario is brilliantly embodied in a series of photocollages by the coruscating conceptual artist Tim Head, now in his 70s. Some show foyers, vacant except for the ubiquitous potted plant; others show spaces so anonymous it is impossible to guess where or what they are, except that each inspires an uneasy deja vu. And what doubles the disquiet is that you have no idea whether you are looking up or down, inside or out, whether the lights are on the floor or the roof.
The disorientation is total, even though the methods are simple. A single image has been flipped and multiplied like a Rorschach; yet the sense of bewilderment is complete. Where are these riddling stage sets, so futuristic and empty – how has Head managed to photograph these non-places?
In fact, they are skimmed directly from reality. Back in the 80s, Head took flaneuristic walks through London by night, photographing corporate lobbies, hotel entrances, underground car parks. The collages of mirrored images, black and white but occasionally tinted an eerie orange or blue, were part of an ongoing series on the character of city life. Their titles are all taken from Baudelaire’s famous essay, The Painter of Modern Life, in which he exhorts contemporary artists to catch the modernity of their times – “the transient, the fleeting, the contingent”. And by modernity, he meant the city.
This fascinating show at Parafin, the young West End gallery founded by two former Tate staff, takes Baudelaire as its starting point with a terrific variety of artworks that brush against and through the British city. Mike Ballard’s abstract sculptures, made from recycled hoardings, bring grimy London straight in off the streets. His paintings mark a sharp division between the ordinary and the alien, depicting sections of city walls where stone carries traces of old images and words. They look as ancient as brass rubbings of medieval tombs yet as modern as the abraded stickers just about discernible in their ghostly surfaces.
The old city lives in new clothes; it wears the signs of the times on its ageing body. Or does it? What if the passage of time is not so obvious after all? Abigail Reynolds has pursued this counterintuitive idea in a captivating series called The Universal Now. She makes cut-and-fold collages out of vintage book plates and photographs, splicing together images of the same spot separated by several decades. A lattice of openings and flaps, impossibly complex, creates a unique honeycomb of image and sculpture.
Look into one of these strange hybrids and you see three grinning urchins sitting on a window ledge looking down on St Paul’s Cathedral. But is this 1926, or is it 1993? The caption implies both, and the eye can’t immediately distinguish between the visual fragments of these two different eras. Time seems to stop: in Trafalgar Square, on the Mall, in the City. London is suspended for ever in the moment that we see it. The past is always here in the present.
For contemporary artists obsessed with the relatively recent past – with early modernism, say, or postwar utopianism – the city has often been the impetus for some quite sardonic work. The Scottish artist Nathan Coley is showing several of his Parade Sculptures, which look like shattered 60s tower blocks, rendered as aluminium models. Mounted on sticks like protest signs, they now lie useless on the gallery floor, as if the protest against this inhuman architecture had failed. And Keith Coventry’s Ontological Painting sends up the you-are-here signage found on tourist signs in city centres. His all-white canvas, rough and aged as a suprematist abstraction, is booby-trapped with black arrows pointing in different directions. Clearly you can’t be here, there and everywhere, so where are you? Nowhere but the middle of a conceptual joke, a picture that sends up modern life and modernist paintings.
Of all the artists in this show, Baudelaire would surely have preferred the German-born photographer and film-maker Melanie Manchot. Manchot goes straight for the transient and contingent with a three-screen installation that moves through the modern city like a high-speed flaneur. Set in different parts of Newcastle, this epic film follows a group of free runners practising parkour, running through streets, along ledges, across bridges and roofs – tracing the lineaments of the city with their feet.
One man performs handstands across the roof of the Sage Gateshead. Another leaps from the balcony down to the stage, and then the stalls, as if fulfilling the audience’s wild dreams. A runner darts across the swing bridge as it turns, so that he always appears to be in the same place in the cityscape, while others jump railings and bollards, streaming through back gardens like the swimmer in John Cheever’s eponymous story, swimming his way home through the neighbourhood pools.
Manchot has been shortlisted for this year’s Derek Jarman award for art films (a touring show opens in October) and it’s no surprise. This study of mankind’s movement through the modern city – as the crow flies, and with absolute freedom – mesmerises.
Stockard Channing gives a good withering. It’s hard to tell whether her physical rigidity – unflinching face, bunched-up body, tight gestures – is completely calculated. Her character, Kristin, is a creature of the hippy 60s: you might expect something more swingingly loose-limbed. Still, the caustic rasp of Channing’s voice is the perfect vehicle for the robust scepticism that is the main quality of this heading-for-her-pension art historian. You might see in Kristin an adult version of the rebel, Rizzo, that Channing made so memorable in the film Grease.
The Broadway star (pictured below) drawls her put-downs with panache – as if she were expelling a final wheezing breath – but the turns of phrase often don’t merit the laughs they get. Too much of Alexi Kaye Campbell’s drama runs on automatic pilot: on the well-worn set-up of a family reunion exploding. On the old idea of what it is to be a witty woman – put someone down and you’re a pop-up Dorothy Parker. On the supposed opposition between political engagement and intimate life. Kristin stormed the barricades in 68; she lost custody of her two sons – and she has failed to mention them in her memoirs.
The play clicks round neatly in Jamie Lloyd’s production: everyone has a say. Two sons – one a banker, one in the middle of a breakdown – are both played dextrously by Joseph Millson; both are fuelled by accusations against their mother. Kristin abhors their partners: Freema Agyeman is a flimsy, flamboyant fashionista; Laura Carmichael (Downton Abbey’s Lady Edith) delivers one of the high points of the evening as she finely evokes a committed Christian who comes on as a dope and goes on to prove herself one of the more interesting characters on the stage.
Fair but mechanical. This has not always been Campbell’s way. His 2013 play The Pride was a beautifully plaited history of homosexual love. The best advocate for Channing here is the lovely design of Soutra Gilmour: an ambiguous space – a half-closed room with Venetian blinds and skylight and green leaves. It makes you feel that you are looking at a woman with a heart. Without it, you’re seeking an apology as well as an apologia.
• Apologia is at the Trafalgar Studios, London until 18 November
Committed to smashing capitalism, racism and queerphobia, Rhode Island’s Downtown Boys have admirable, if ambitious, aims. But if their social agenda is progressive, their music isn’t. They take almost all their cues from 1977-era punk, and for a band that sets such store by its politics, their lyrics are oddly opaque. There’s no sloganeering as memorable as Fight the Power here, although there is a song with a metaphor about building tables (Violent Complicity). Still, there’s a compelling quality to Victoria Ruiz’s vocals, and the welcome brass embellishments recall X-Ray Spex’s Lora Logic. They peak with the bilingual Somos Chulas (No Somos Pendejas), which translates as We Are Cool (We Aren’t Stupid). It’s hardly Strange Fruit.
You’re a wry, thoughtful Australian singer-songwriter and label owner, feted on your national scene. Suddenly, your other half – another wry, thoughtful Australian singer-songwriter – gets famous beyond either of your wildest DIY dreams. The cocktail of love and paranoia can only come out in song: Forgot Myself, the raw-nerve lead track on Jen Cloher’s fourth album, or the more serene Sensory Memory; significantly, that’s Courtney Barnett on guitar. Cloher’s work is characterised by searing honesty on this, and other granular subjects. Great Australian Bite analyses the lot of Australian artists with mighty, acidic, reverberating Crazy Horse guitars. Cloher and her band can do Sleater-Kinney-ish post-punk (Strong Woman) and the Velvet Underground via Bill Callahan (Analysis Paralysis), but are particularly enjoyable on songs like the dreamlike Regional Echo, when Cloher sounds least like Barnett.
Teen rapper Chipmunk skyrocketed with 2007 mixtape League of My Own. Now known as Chip, via several years of pop chart success, the grime MC is reclaiming the helm of the scene’s DIY ethos. With cutting diss tracks about certain peers, the album largely finds Chip walking the walk. The strength of his bars and delivery is impressive, but with rich, varied production that encompasses bashment (Snap Snap), wavy R&B (Hit Me Up) and even drill (Honestly), along with far-ranging features (Wiley, Giggs, Ghetts and more), this is as much a statement of intent as an assured retrospective of what he’s already achieved.
Anyone who gets enraged by movies in which characters display a recklessly cavalier attitude to the forces of evil will be driven into a head-spinning fury by Annabelle: Creation. This prequel to the possessed doll series that started with The Conjuring features a toymaker whose creations seem expressly designed to chill the very soul, a demon locked in a cupboard and a load of winsome orphans who insist on opening every sinister locked door in their new home, an isolated house with a paint job the colour of sun-bleached bones. But if you can get past the utter, utter stupidity of pretty much everything every character does when faced with spooky peril, there are some effective scares here.
It is over half a century since a young Thomas Keneally had a breakdown and abandoned his studies at an Australian seminary. His Catholicism, he now says, is more cultural than practising, yet he still knows better than most the mindset of today’s priests.
Crimes of the Father, a characteristically brave and unflinching novel by the Booker and Miles Franklin prize-winner, examines how the overwhelming majority of Catholic clerics, who may struggle with their vow of celibacy but still manage to give something positive to the world, are coping in an institution where a tiny minority have abused children, too often while the church turns a blind eye.
Psychologist and monk Father Frank Docherty is, his younger brother says (and no doubt speaking for the author), “the real bloody deal” as far as priests go. Exiled by his home cardinal in Sydney as a young priest in the 1970s, on account of his radicalism, opposition to apartheid and the Vietnam war, he returns 25 years later to visit his feisty but ailing mother. He has been living an academic life in Canada, researching the tidal wave of revelations about paedophile priests that have so drained Catholicism’s moral authority.
On home leave, with family matters uppermost in his mind, he nevertheless stumbles across allegations of abuse against a senior monsignor in the local archdiocese, who also happens to be the brother of the woman who, many years previously, had brought Docherty to the point of leaving the priesthood.
Unlike the church authorities, when confronted with the facts Docherty doesn’t look away, or ignore the pain of the bereaved and broken mother of a young victim who has killed himself. And so, with a prophetic moral clarity, he challenges the bullying local cardinal, who proffers empty words and hides behind lawyers’ instructions and confidentiality agreements.
Keneally’s theme is sadly familiar, but in the hands of a world-renowned writer – still, on this evidence, at the height of his powers, and with a long record of shining a light on human frailty and injustice – Crimes of the Father goes way beyond the familiar.
It questions what makes a good priest and, therefore, what makes a bad one. And that, Keneally concludes, isn’t only to do with individual make-up, circumstances or choices, but also down to institutional Catholicism and “emotional dwarfism” (the title of one of Docherty’s academic papers).
The charge is often made that the clerical abuse scandal is the consequence of priestly celibacy, but it is too easy an accusation for the Vatican to bat away. Vicars, TV presenters, teachers and many others who are ostensibly “happily married” also commit similarly horrific crimes, it points out. And so, within the church, there remains a resistance to lifting the veil on the real but often indirect damage done to its priests and nuns by a celibate lifestyle embraced and flaunted as a higher calling for the past 1,000 years.
The real question, Keneally suggests, is whether a whole belief system that relies on a rejection of something as essential as sexuality has any role in causing the current crisis. Unless this is addressed honestly – and there is no sign of it happening yet – the church will continue, Docherty tells one of the victims he is consoling, to abuse and hence negate the God-given mandate it claims as its very reason to exist.
• Crimes of the Father by Thomas Keneally is published by Sceptre (£18.99). To order a copy for £16.14 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
The story of Touko Laaksonen, the artist who helped shape the tastes of a generation of gay men, Tom of Finland is almost as handsome and glossy as the drawings of luxuriantly leather-clad fantasy figures with which he made his name. Having served during the second world war with distinction, Laaksonen (a sober, watchful performance from Pekka Strang) returns home to Finland to be reminded that, as a gay man, he is perceived as the enemy.
In a society that considered homosexuality a crime or a deviance, Laaksonen, using the pen name Tom of Finland, imagined an unfettered alternative – a sexuality that filled its figure-hugging trousers with joy and promise, along with other more obvious attributes. While Dome Karukoski’s film-making feels quite cautious next to the balls-out bravery of his subject, this biopic certainly doesn’t water down Laaksonen’s distinctive aesthetic, nor does it downplay the role of this unassuming Finnish man as an icon of gay liberation.
This is, in all respects, a young man’s disc. Born in Edinburgh in 1997, Yuanfan Yang is already a promising pianist-composer and winner of many international competitions. He plays Schubert’s B flat Impromptu, Op 142 No 3, Chopin’s F minor Fantasie Op 49 and Liszt’s Vallée d’Obermann with youthful confidence. More interesting are his choices of Philip Cashian’s Landscape and his own Three Aquarelles – watercolours – written when Yang was in his mid-teens. They are vividly programmatic, relating to waves, the sinking sun and a haunted bell, and ranging in mood from splashy virtuosity to a soulful poignancy impressive in one so young. The recital ends with a gently rocking Farewell to Stromness by Peter Maxwell Davies, a short, wistful favourite.
The harpsichord called “Le Hanneton” was made by Louis Denis in Paris in 1658, and though it has been altered over time it retains a magically rich resonance and sensual warmth, ideally suited to the music of the music of the French baroque. Giulia Nuti penetrates its depths in a recital gathering works from the famous Bauyn manuscript, taking slow speeds that suit the elaborate decorations and graceful dance rhythms of the suites. The instrument, unequally tuned and at low pitch, works with the repertory and the performer to reveal a vanished sound world, and in Chambonnières’s wonderfully eloquent Chaconne and Louis Couperin’s noble Passacaille you feel in touch with another civilisation.
The Latvian composer Ēriks Ešenvalds (b1977) has enjoyed enormous popularity with his complex, multilayered choral compositions, sometimes in eight or even 16 parts, often overwhelming in their rich, tonal colour and bursting with imagination. But creative endeavour is no guarantee of complete success. This album, his first recorded by an American ensemble, explores Ešenvalds’ distinctly uneven responses to nature, religious faith and legend in four large narrative pieces. It takes its title from the most successful work in the collection, Rivers of Light, a gorgeous evocation of the northern lights. Less focused is his incoherent Passion and Resurrection, though impressive throughout is the splendid singing of the Portland State Chamber Choir.
3DS, Nintendo, cert: 3
★★★
Unusually, given its background, the Pikmin series is one of Nintendo’s rare underachievers. It was created by Mario and Zelda mastermind Shigeru Miyamoto, and shares the same charm and brilliance, just not the same success. Consequently, the franchise has not been pursued with the same vigour: there have been only four Pikmin games in 16 years. The series is typically based around 3D real-time strategy, where miniature spaceman Captain Olimar crashes on a planet and must use tiny Pikmin creatures – of varying abilities – to overcome obstacles and find items to mend his ship (before the sun sets and monsters come).
It’s simple enough, but the game’s charm lies in its setting – inspired by Miyamoto’s garden – and the various household items that Olimar collects, which he often fails to comprehend. Hey! Pikmin is a 2D take on the concept. It generally works, but lacks the depth of the originals and, with no time limit, their sense of panic. What remains seems unlikely to break into the mainstream. Gentle and fun, then, but not essential. CD
PS4, Koei Tecmo. cert: 18
★★★★
How pleasing that developer Team Ninja’s samurai action game is able to continue its brutal challenge with this latest expansion, Defiant Honour, focusing on the winter siege of Osaka Castle. The original was a majestic title, and while some DLC is of little value, this is a more than welcome addition. The mission to take the castle makes liberal use of ranged hazards such as cannon fire and a storm of arrows, which will likely be divisive among players, but the task never feels unfair. The boss fights, in turn, mostly consist of one-on-one duels with various historical figures, and these encounters offer tense battles of attrition, but sadly the more elaborate “Yokai” demon boss designs are absent.
There are some new enemies to keep things fresh – ninja dogs being the highlight – with the new “tonfa” weapons rounding out the package and extending the longevity of an already impressive game. The most remarkable thing about Nioh’s add-on content, however, is that despite countless deaths it still compels players to carry on. As such, be wary of the high-level requirement before taking the plunge. As excellent as Defiant Honour is, it will reward diehards the most. RS
Nintendo, cert 3
★★★★★
Some seven years after the Nintendo 3DS debuted comes the latest – and perhaps, thanks to Nintendo Switch, final – iteration of the handheld system. Impressively, it may be the best. The 2DS XL incorporates upgrades added for new Nintendo 3DS – an additional thumbstick and extra shoulder buttons, more powerful processors, increased RAM, and built-in support for amiibo figures. Unlike the original 2DS – a flat, cheap-looking slab with both screens permanently exposed – the 2DS XL reverts to a clamshell design, improving even on the 3DS XL. Cartridge and memory card slots are now covered. This, combined with the sleek monochrome body and colour trim (either black with sky-blue, or white with orange), makes for Nintendo’s smoothest, most stylish model yet.
While it abandons the 3D visual gimmick, this is no great loss as even Nintendo rarely found gameplay applications for it. Fully compatible with the 3DS’s fantastic software library, and with its sharp new look, the 2DS XL is the ultimate 3DS. MK
John Lloyd is one of Britain’s most perceptive journalists, as anyone who remembers his Moscow years for the FT can attest. He is also, these days, a senior researcher for the Reuters Institute at Oxford University. So when he sets out to write a magisterial account of “the global battle for news and information”, he’s ideally equipped for the task.
Lloyd inevitably links freedom of the press to democracy itself. Without independent media doing a determined reporting job, there can be no true democracy. But see how creeping oppression – and the absence of any settled online funding model – silences or impoverishes newsrooms around the world.
He begins in China as President Xi Jinping lays down a modern version of the old Maoist dictum. “We must unwaveringly persist in the principle that the party manages the media, persist in politicians running periodicals, TV stations and news websites.”
For a few years in the 1990s, investigative journalists began to find traction. There was a sense of challenge and impending liberation. No more. Xi operates a policy of noodles and circuses. The most populous nation on Earth has stifled press freedom. It is, in a cruder way, the path Russia has followed, seeing free media grow haphazardly under Yeltsin, then slowly brought to heel through Putin’s years.
Is there hope? It came and died swiftly during the Arab spring. Egyptians, more fearful of the Muslim Brotherhood than renewed military rule, turned to Field Marshal al-Sisi, who – with the Saudis – now leads the charge to shut down al-Jazeera and mute alternative media narratives. Sisi works (in the quoted words of one Cairo commentator) through “a private sector largely linked to the regime that defies the nature of an ‘independent’ media”. Shades of President Erdoğan’s early strategy of suppression in Turkey before a failed coup gave him cover to lock up press critics in their hundreds.
Sometimes – in Ethiopia, say – there’s a spark of resilience to the journalism that has been snuffed out. Sometimes – in Saudi Arabia – the journalism seems “more a matter of providing contemporary scripts for a morality play than a description of events”; docile, dull and defeated. Sometimes – and increasingly in India – a compliant corporate camaraderie shuts its eyes to growing corruption. Sometimes – as in Mexico – reporters and editors are brutally murdered as the drugs cartels defend their patch. Sometimes – as in South Africa – the bright hopes of liberation from apartheid grow tangled in a complex power struggle.
Lloyd doesn’t just describe the plight of free journalists in countries like these. He goes there and talks to them. He reports a growing crisis that sees democracy itself weakened by attrition. The countries on the frontline of media freedom are often analysed first-hand, with nuance and a sense of history. They are the battle zone, the core of the fight for media freedom; and the suffering of many of the journalists caught up in this battle (seven Mexican reporters shot dead in the first six months of 2017) compels shock and awe.
Yet any attempt to put new heart and momentum into the spread of global press freedom must also depend on the countries where it has long seemed secure, led by the US and the UK. But here, too, the threats mount. A freedom that cannot sustain itself financially, a freedom at the mercy of politicians or cheque-waving tycoons, a freedom without a settled future in an era of digital upheaval, is a freedom in crisis, too. And, significantly, it is when Lloyd writes from his own experience rather than as a reporter, that his book is at its most tentative, a thesis without answers.
Two British journalists are used as symbols of decline: Kelvin MacKenzie, former editor of the Sun, and poor Piers Morgan, who covers every base from red-top degeneracy to the wasteland of breakfast TV. The past 50 years, in Lloyd’s view, have seen British standards slide far and wide. He rehearses some familiar chestnuts from the Leveson report and laments the inaction that followed. But then (a last-minute twist) he also concludes that “a state-approved regulator is no fix at all”. Let the coming generation of journalists “refashion tabloid journalism into something worthy of their readers”.
Alas! Wan hopes. Or, as Lloyd observes in an adjacent context: “Shallowness of understanding is journalism’s greatest bane.” For you wonder, as he moves from a soiled UK to the erstwhile wonders of US media, full of ethical aspirations and first amendment self-importance, whether he’s really understood the demography that shapes and conditions newspapers – and the readers reporters serve.
America in the 1800s had many competing papers within its big cities. Joseph Pulitzer’s Post-Dispatch was one of five or more papers in St Louis, papers continuously contracting until, with the death of the Globe-Democrat, there was one dominant voice that donned the robes of consensus and aspired to be respected as a pillar of the community. It was the same in New York, when Pulitzer bought his World and saw it locked in competition with Hearst’s Journal as, gradually, 10 or 11 papers shrank into three, with the stately Times offering high seriousness and lofty intentions.
It was consensus and shrinkage that brought earnest aspirations to the American scene. It is competition in search of a secure niche market that makes what’s left of Fleet Street so bitter and sometimes twisted. Lloyd’s supposed new breed of moral tabloid journalists won’t carve out any “worthy” future in such circumstances. But they will be part of profound digital change.
What’s next? Lloyd, maybe inevitably, looks to America again: to BuzzFeed and Vice, current champions of the net, and to Politico, expert exploiter of a discrete market (politics) just as his FT exploits the world of finance. Big niches. That’s shrewd and probably right – though “probably” is as far as anyone can go. The history of the media and the net over two decades now is a saga of wrong assumptions and cancelled solutions. No one knows.
What we ought to know, though, at the end of John Lloyd’s world tour, is that the media awkward squad, asking difficult questions, turning over stones, has to be part of any tolerably free future. You can raise all manner of problems, bathe in cynicism, wallow in cupidity. But a free press and free broadcasting – off- or online – is not some optional extra. It is vital, but also beset by dangers; and Lloyd, with scholarship and energy, lays many of them bare. The power of the story still matters more than anything.
• The Power and the Story by John Lloyd is published by Atlantic (£25). To order a copy for £21.25 go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99
Eden: Paradise Lost (C4) | All 4Citizen Jane (BBC4) | iPlayerUtopia: In Search of the Dream (BBC4) | iPlayerTrust Me (BBC1) | iPlayerDiana: In Her Own Words (C4) | All 4Eden, the Channel 4 year-long “reality” experiment in the wilds of Scotland that famously went wildly wrong, suddenly resurfaced in a week-long coda, Paradise Lost, in which the producers sought to excuse their mistakes by giving us more of the same: inanity, truculence, the milk of human kindness openly curdling. It was a grim watch, made brief fun only by our knowledge that the contestants emerged from their months of fame-seeking to discover the show had long been cancelled: more of Britain had watched Cash in the Attic. Chief problem was apparently that, as one of the women said, it turned into “just a penis… size… matching… competition”.
It has been said more succinctly, but we knew what she meant. The main swinging dicks were Titch, presumably named for the breadth of his non-swearing vocabulary, and Anton, a lumbering, infuriating soul and his own worst enemy: every hour last week I was waiting to see Anton decked.
Here was a generation brought up to believe in their right to believe in themselves, if not actually be good at anything
Given my feelings of depression and boredom – and that was only in three or four nights’ watching – goodness knows what it was like for the participants. There was some revolting misogyny, but there was also some savage incompetence. A hunter who couldn’t hunt, a gardener who couldn’t weed, a chef who seemed only to plunge knives into people’s backs. No one – count them, none – appeared to take more than the briefest of seconds, in a whole almost-year, to drink in the beauty of the Ardnamurchan peninsula, fresh startled every morning, or to read half a book, or teach others about… anything.
Here was a generation brought up to believe in their inalienable right to believe in themselves, if not to be actually good at anything, who, for all their easy talk of “democracy”, had forgotten how to count the very thing, as witnessed in the shoddy voting-out of Anton. By the end I just felt sorry for the midges.
Far more instructive, hopeful even, in terms of a slice of paradise on Earth was Citizen Jane, a masterly film on the battle for the soul of a city. New York, as it happens, and a battle fought from the 30s to the 70s, but it encapsulated much of the soul of the 20th century.
On the one hand, city developer Robert Moses, in increasing thrall to the automobile, and the utopian blandishments of Corbusian modernism. On the other, Jane Jacobs, a phenomenally articulate writer. Her every sentence sang off the screen: “Projects that are truly marvels of dullness and regimentation, sealed against any buoyancy or vitality of city life… civic centres that are avoided by anyone except bums.”
Jacobs understood, viscerally in the main but also through exhaustive empirical research, that cities cannot be built top-down, by even well-intentioned gods (and here I was minded of the soaraway success of SimCity). Buildings that turn their backs on the streets; expressways that eviscerate. She went to war against Moses and his armies, arguing instead for short blocks, myriad channels, a mix of old and new buildings, constant connections with neighbourhoods. Jacobs’s mantra was: “There is no logic that can be superimposed: people make the city.”
There was great footage of Little Italy in 1962: flashing-eyed women arguing that the streets were immensely safer there. “Two-three in the morning, the men are sitting in the cafes and they’re watching for you.” And there were grim lessons from 50s slum resettlement in Baltimore, the replacing of neighbourhoods with sanitised architectural “housing projects” that had turned within nine years into some of the most dangerous places in the world. We saw, in turn, their late 90s demolition: literally, a bonfire of the vanities. China is currently engaged in Brobdingnagian urban expansion and has decided its template will be exactly that failed 1950s American model.
BBC4 is also giving us a highly promising three-parter, Utopia: In Search of the Dream, and art historian Richard Clay has already managed, without straining, to link Thomas Spence’s “commons” of shared ownership, via George Bernard Shaw and Star Trek’s Gene Roddenberry, directly to Wikipedia. It’s intellectually splendid. We saw a flash-forward to this week’s second episode, and a keen-eyed young black architect enthusing: “We are declaring war on the slums!” The words of Robert Moses, 80 years on.
I almost stopped watching Trust Me, BBC1’s new four-part drama, 10 minutes in, when the already semi-daft plot dunked its head into simple medical ignorance. Jodie Whittaker’s angelic if stroppy nurse Cath, trying to expose hospital abuses in Sheffield, is given her perfunctory jotters: shamed and angry, she (somewhat inexplicably) decides to steal her best pal’s identity, pretend to be a full doctor and gets a whizzy new job in Edinburgh. She’s welcomed north with more friendship, and certainly a greater lack of credential-checking, than greeted the announcement of the actress as the next Doctor Who.
Sharon Small is Brigitte, Cath’s stressy new Scots boss, and wonders: “So why here? This place is a backward step, surely?… this isn’t exactly a centre of excellence.”
Diana was not a republican (the clue coming in the fact that she wanted her son to be king)
Say what? It gave its name – the Edinburgh Model – to global teaching systems: its graduates founded five of the seven Ivy League medical schools. The storyline was full of such sillies. The Sheffield reporter who insisted that Cath herself go public and personal (absolutely no need) with her whistleblowing, and thus lost the story; the absurd ease with which Cath multitasks upheaval, a daughter, a new affair and speed-reading Surgery for Dummies from her gown pocket: if a patient arrived in A&E up here boasting as many plot holes, they’d be borrowed for a string vest.
They might just seem surface sillies, but I’ll warrant a writer such as Jed Mercurio would have taken better chances to tell more sober truths about whistleblowing, along with the drama. Yet I’ll stick with it, mainly to see if the plot manages to extricate itself from the roils of its own entrails and to enjoy a good cast.
What did we learn from Diana: In Her Own Words? Barring a couple of swipes at those who can’t answer back, and the fact that such shows will resort to much padding, and that the exceedingly posh and coy Diana was, despite strident claims from the misguided, not a republican (the clue coming in the fact that she wanted her son to be king), I’d have to say a big fat jack. What learned, though, from the weeks of hissy furore between Channel 4’s “right” to broadcast private recordings of Diana, and her sons’ rights to a quiet life? Those twin British failings – a capacity for self-deception and love of deference – are alive and kicking today: it might be 2017 rather than 1953, but millennials are keen to bend the knee anew.
Fun Kids funkidslive.comThe Butterfly Effect jonronson.com
Quite a few friends have asked me about podcasts for children. I’ve found with many kids that once they hit nine or 10, they’re happy to listen to programmes aimed at adults, as long as they’re funny and relevant to their interests. If you have a football-mad child, as I do, I’d recommend 5 Live’s documentaries and phone-ins (I can’t stand the callers’ passion and pernicketiness, but my son, 11, loves all of that).
He’s far more likely to stick with those shows, for instance, than the station’s child-aimed offering, Jamie Johnson Football Podcast, which he flatly hates, though he got through the episode where YouTube footballer Spencer FC talked about his life. He’s also a fan of Reply All (mentioned last week), because it’s funny and techy, and, for some reason, Malcolm Gladwell’s Revisionist History, particularly any episode about US education. I tried him on S-Town, but it was too long winded and complicated.
When it comes to music, Radio 1’s Grimmy makes tweens and early teens laugh, but if they’re really into their tunes, they tend to swap to specialist shows as they get older. Still, whether they like music or not, younger kids love countdowns, so if you’re listening with a four- to nine-year-old, you can rarely go wrong with a Top 40, whether that’s Radio 1’s The Official Chart (Fridays) or The Vodaphone Big Top 40 (Sundays).
The whole setup is very impressive, almost as clickable and content-packed as the CBeebies website
Aside from all of that, if you’re looking for child-friendly podcasts for the under-10s, then I heartily recommend Fun Kids. It’s a radio station, first and foremost, broadcasting all day, every day, on DAB and the internet, and it understands its young audience very well. Its hosted shows (7am-8pm) are upbeat and welcoming, peppering chart music with interviews and daft chat, requests and quizzes. Online, you can access an extensive repertoire of programmes and specialist podcasts made for children.
It’s admirable how much detail and effort go into these shows. There’s a great science podcast, Science Weekly, which is interesting whether you’re seven or 47, plus several shorter ones about the human body, space and travel. There’s even one that teaches you Polish. I wasn’t quite so enamoured of the new book podcast, which played irritating music underneath a not very interesting interview with Greg James and Chris Smith. Still, it’s only the first one, and Fun Kids’ high production standards will no doubt kick it into shape. The site offers videos too – no youth-aimed channel will survive without visuals – and for those who are stuck for kid-friendly holiday amusements, there are weekly summer challenges and advice for days out. There are recipes for Polish meals, how to create a sound map, instructions for a silly science soup (just raisins in lemonade, food fans). The whole setup is very impressive, almost as clickable and content-packed as the CBeebies website and, no doubt, made on a lot less money. Excellent stuff.
Not for children: Jon Ronson has a new podcast out called The Butterfly Effect. It’s about pornography, which might make you rush to listen to it or hesitate. I hesitated, if I’m honest; I’m not a huge fan of Brit-geek-on-a-porn-set-with-hilarious-consequences shows. But I was wrong; with Ronson, you get much more than that. In truth, the whole show is about rapidly changing economics and how those changes affect people’s everyday lives. And how one decision, by one man, can upend an entire industry.
That one man is called Fabian, a young guy who has ended up owning almost every free online porn site in the world. We meet Fabian as soon as we start. He seems lovely. Ronson has a way of making everyone seem lovely initially (remember his Jonathan King interviews?) and then gently revealing their other sides. He knows that we are all complicated, all hypocritical, and he never reduces people to one thing or the other. Plus, he’s funny, and poses the toughest of questions in an utterly disarming way. It makes for a gripping listen, a story that unfolds in a madly unpredictable way. All seven episodes of The Butterfly Effect are out on Audible. Try it; you might like it (she says, like a porn pedlar).
Born in West Philadelphia, DJ Jazzy Jeff has been spinning records since he was 10. The skills he developed in his family’s basement soon became the basis for hip-hop duo DJ Jazzy Jeff & the Fresh Prince. As well as winning DMC Championship and American Music awards, he was the first hip-hop artist (together with Will Smith) to win the first best rap performance Grammy for Parents Just Don’t Understand (1988). The group’s second Grammy was earned for Summertime, peaking at No 4 on the Billboard Hot 100. Since then, his work has featured in Boyz n the Hood (1991), Strange Days (1995) and Jersey Girl (2004). Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff will make their first UK live performance at Livewire festival on 27 August.
Supermensch: The Legend of Shep Gordon
This is about Shep Gordon’s life as a talent manager, the things he accomplished and the people he managed, from Michael Douglas to Sylvester Stallone. It’s one of the most special documentaries I’ve ever seen – definitely a must watch. As a character, he’s very funny, with a distinctive laugh. He talks about the passion of business, which isn’t something a lot of people in the entertainment industry do, so that really stuck out. He’s kind of like a modern-day Forrest Gump: he’s done so many different things, you’re left trying to figure out how this can be one person’s life.
Jay Z: 4:44
I am absolutely in love with Jay Z’s latest album. He’s the first artist of our time to have made an adult hip-hop album. It’s very bold and daring, making music that’s not specifically for the club – not everything has to be for the club. What I like most about it is that I don’t have a favourite song – I like them all. You can almost feel that this album was made to be presented as a whole and not split up.
Mogul: The Life and Death of Chris Lighty
[Music industry executive] Chris Lighty was a friend of mine, who unfortunately took his own life. This podcast delves into some of the trials and tribulations that the music industry can put on you, the stresses, and how some people can’t handle those stresses. I felt it took a very delicate situation and handled it very carefully. They go through his life and his journey, how he got started, the different people he represented and the emotional connections he had with a lot of his artists. I didn’t know many people who didn’t like Chris Lighty; he was just a generally good guy. When he took his own life it was a shock to everybody.
The Crab Claw Restaurant, St Michaels, Maryland
I’m a massive blue crab fan and in the summer I have crabs once or twice a week. They’re pretty much from the area that I live in, from Philadelphia to Virginia. I don’t use the hammers – I’ll just break them with my hands. When I went down to St Michaels with my wife to celebrate our anniversary, we stumbled across this restaurant right beside the water. We were the only ones in there, but it was absolutely amazing. It’s a two-hour drive from my house, but if they tell me they have big crabs there I’ll get in my car and drive to get them.
The Defiant Ones, HBO
This four-part documentary looks at [Interscope Records co-founder] Jimmy Iovine and Dr Dre, their past, how they met and what they’ve done. Jimmy was learning how to be an audio engineer and realised he was a producer, while Dr Dre was making iconic records. I really enjoyed seeing how they came to sell Beats to Apple for $3bn with an incredible journey behind them. Dre and I are around the same age, so it’s like looking in the mirror – I had a personal connection. He’s pretty much hip-hop’s first billionaire and we never thought one of us could get to that level, so you really have a lot of appreciation for what he’s done.
Philadelphia 76ers
I am a massive Philadelphia fan, being from there, and I’m incredibly excited about the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team. We have been very, very bad over the past few years and it’s really hard when you’re passionate about your team. But I see a light at the end of the tunnel as I think we have probably the best young and talented team in basketball [at the moment]. There was a point when I’d go to every game and even purchased a streaming device so I could watch them when I was on tour. I didn’t use my season ticket much when they were losing, so I’m excited to go back to some games with the outlook being so bright.
Justin Bua
Justin Bua’s art is similar to Ernie Barnes’s, who did iconic Marvin Gaye artwork with very exaggerated figures. Bua does a lot of hip-hop artwork and I got a piece from him called The DJ which I thought was incredible. The structure of it and the exaggeration almosts tells a story about DJ culture. The colours are very vibrant and rich. When I look at this picture I see myself.
Alan Ayckbourn, as we know from plays like Henceforward and Comic Potential, is fascinated by science-fiction. The subjugation of women is also a theme that runs through his work. The two ideas now come together in this inordinate, two-part, six-hour drama presented at the festival before heading to the Old Vic in London. Whether the artistic reward justifies the temporal investment is a matter of taste, but I found myself pining for the Ayckbourn who is an unparalleled observer of modern manners rather than the one who gazes bleakly into the future.
Here, Ayckbourn projects us into a post-catastrophic Britain a century hence where a plague has decimated the population. Since women are held responsible for the loss of life, there is an enforced segregation of the sexes from puberty onwards. Men occupy the north, women the south of each community. Birth is by artificial insemination, same-sex relationships are the norm, and heterosexuality is seen as a punishable aberration. We learn all this through the diaries of two siblings, the boy Elihu and the girl Soween, who both fall in love with the same female, Giella.
What instantly strikes one – apart from the fact they all have funny names in the future – is that what we are watching feels more like an adapted novel than a play: not surprisingly since Ayckbourn originally conceived it as a book-length prose piece. The other thing that hits a non-sci-fi addict like myself is how the genre leads everyone into overt moralising. Like most writers who have seen the future, from HG Wells onwards, Ayckbourn has decided it doesn’t work. A dramatist whose supreme gift is for exposing the absurdities of everyday life becomes much more didactic once he takes the road to dystopia.
Of course, part of Ayckbourn’s point is that sex, politics and religion in the future will offer a brutally logical extension of the present. The world here depicted may bear a passing resemblance to Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale; but what Ayckbourn is really saying is that sexual apartheid is the product of a culture where men view women as both unequal and a source of temptation. Politics features strongly in that Ayckbourn gives us frequent glimpses of South Sarum village council where the Orthodox and Progressive parties engage in yah-boo insults. These enclosed women are also obliged to read daily from The Book Of Certitudes, which resembles a patriarchal parody of the Old Testament.
You can see where Ayckbourn is taking us. It just takes a long time to get there. I also sense a conflict between the pessimism of the sci-fi form and Ayckbourn’s desire to give us the occasional laugh and a shred of hope. In the end, the story boils down to a Romeo and Juliet re-run with Elihu and Giella as the star-crossed couple: one of the funnier passages shows the unworldly Soween mistaking their passionate lovemaking for a form of violent combat. There is also something nicely ironic about the idea that, for Giella’s free-spirited parents, a good time consists of something as old-fashioned as swigging booze and having a rave-up to rock music.
But if boredom is kept at bay – and it’s often a close-run thing – that is largely because of acting and production. The stand-out performance comes from Erin Doherty who, as Soween, narrates much of the story. In her black bonnet and gown – standard gear for these isolated women – she looks like a devout member of the Amish sect: what is astonishing, however, is her ability to convey Soween’s mix of sweetness, sadness and surprised delight at discovering the proscribed Jane Eyre, the heroine of which she decides she resembles. It is Doherty, both earnest and touching, who holds the show together.
Jake Davies and Weruche Opia as the subversive lovers, Thusitha Jayasundera as a fundamentalist parent, Richard Katz as a wayward tutor and Sophie Melville as Soween’s fickle friend are all good. Annabel Bolton’s production, aided by Laura Hopkins’s dark design, also creates a plausible futuristic world and uses projected memoranda to give the whole thing a documentary feel; something deftly counterpointed by Christopher Nightingale’s atmospheric score, played by a four-piece orchestra and sung by a community choir.
Every attention has been lavished on the play, yet it still left me feeling frustrated. Ayckbourn’s genius has always been for taking domestic life and, by playing with space and time, giving it an extra dimension. Here he takes a mythic form and uses it to warn us against the perils of sexual categorisation, political piety and religious rigidity. I know which Ayckbourn I prefer.
This would be a bad time to try to hire a blond fright wig from a theatrical costumier. The ones that aren’t being worn, combed forward, by actors playing satirical versions of Donald Trump are, hand-brushed upwards, on the heads of performers sending up Boris Johnson.
With thousands of shows on offer at the Edinburgh fringe, audiences are inevitably drawn – before the reviews and prizes come in – to productions with easily graspable themes that can be spread to the like-minded through social media.
So it’s possible this month to see three pieces in a row about the current US president: British comedian Simon Jay’s one-man show Trumpageddon; the US import Trumpus Interruptus, a fantasy about the American president’s impeachment; and Trump’d, a musical from Cambridge Footlights revue team.
Commercially canny – all of the productions sold tickets quickly and in large quantities – the projects suffer, as all Trump satire does, from the difficulty of out-imagining reality and keeping ahead of events. A section in Trumpus Interruptus about White House communications chief Anthony Scaramucci, presumably added to reflect his appointment just before the show opened, has already been rewritten to account for his sudden departure.
Trump’d tries to outrun the news by locating the show in 2030, when the 45th president has become a dictator, with Arnold Schwarzenegger his vice-president. Even so, the jokes are remarkably constant across this coincidental trilogy. Trump is lampooned for inaccuracy and boasting (expressing, in Trumpageddon, his pleasure at “playing to 15,000 people in Glasgow”), over-prolonged handshakes, obsession with female genitals and building walls, and buddying up to Vladimir Putin. Each show satirically suggests a homoerotic element to the connection between the American and Russian presidents.
Political comedy has become one of the fringe’s stand-out strands since Edinburgh 2014 coincided with the run-up to the Scottish Independence referendum. Two UK general elections and an EU referendum in the subsequent summers have encouraged the trend.
But authors and performers who hitch a ride on the juggernaut of current affairs risk being overtaken by, for example, a prime minister calling a snap election after the fringe programme had gone to press.
This jeopardy is reflected in the title of satirist Matt Forde’s set: A Show Hastily Rewritten in Light of Recent Events – Again! The audience gets tantalising hints of what might until recently have been frontline riffs – involving Paul Nuttall, Tim Farron or, once again, Scaramucci – before Forde dutifully switches attention to Vince Cable and North Korea.
Forde is an accomplished mimic – some of the audience flinched at his forensically throaty Nick Robinson – but as Mike Yarwood during Thatcherism he is unable to take off the current incumbent of No 10.
Cometh the hour, cometh Difficult Woman, a solo show for impressionist Jan Ravens that is receiving huge cheers. Even here there is evidence of emergency rewriting, with signs that Ravens had gambled at the planning stage on an international ruling female triumvirate of Theresa May, Hillary Clinton and Angela Merkel. During the early summer, the performer must have been praying that if May went, she would be replaced by Amber Rudd rather than one of the contenders who would be, for a female impressionist, a difficult man.
Luckily, at least for fringe-goers, Ravens still gets to do the UK’s second female premier, showing the audience how May’s “tense mouth” creates a delivery that somehow sounds both arrogant and panicked. Cannily, she gets round Clinton’s defeat by impersonating Trump as a shrill toddler. Although she topically jokes about being paid, as a BBC woman, “tuppence ha’penny” for Radio 4’s Dead Ringers, the greater public prominence of women gives Ravens an escalating range of targets, and her ear can reach them all, offering a three-way exchange between Scottish main party leaders Nicola Sturgeon, Ruth Davidson and Kezia Dugdale, then effortlessly sketching in a Newsnight two-way between the double-quick Scots of Kirsty Wark and the half-speed Canadian of Lyse Doucet.
Probably expecting its script to remain safe until Britain’s EU-leaving date of March 2019, Brexit: The Musical finds itself already caught short on topicality by May’s failed gamble.
Writer Chris Bryant (not the Labour MP, but a lawyer of the same name) includes a few frantic closing verses about the 8 June general election vote, but is still stuck with a show in which Theresa May’s big number stresses her stealthy strength and tendency to be underestimated, while Jeremy Corbyn’s solo laments his being prevented by events from attending Glastonbury 2016, with no mention of his triumphant appearance this year. The cleverest composition is Mother Knows Best!, a torch song for Andrea Leadsom, that, like much of the show, would have been even funnier last August. Perhaps, to represent the current political situation, Brexit: The Musical should have been offered in alternative soft-rock and hard-rock versions in adjoining venues.
The risk for all these political comedies is that they become echo-chamber shows, assuming that, like all of the authors, most of the audience will be anti-Trump and anti-Brexit. A bolder enterprise might challenge theatre-goers to empathise with someone they demonise, as happens in Bin Laden: The One Man Show.
This bold concept by the UK-based Knaïve Theatre (which, daringly, started its tour in the US) offers a sympathetic biography of the architect of the 9/11 atrocities, in the form of a motivational business talk – complete with tea and biscuits for the audience.
Sam Redway, who co-created the show with Tyrrell Jones, stands beside a flipchart listing the six steps – from “finding a cause” to “wanting it” – that permitted an underachiever from a rich family to humiliate first Russia (in Afghanistan) and then the US, in New York, and elsewhere. The result is an unsettling explanation of the process of extreme radicalism, creating a tingling sense – rare in fringe shows – of theatre-goers being led in an uncomfortable direction.
Similar mental stimulation occurs, with added simulation, in Foreign Radical, part of work by a large visiting Canadian presence this year. An interactive drama based on the US government’s anti-terrorist watchlist guidelines, the show challenges ticket-buyers to feel what it might be like to become a target of surveillance and suspicion.
Groups of 30 are led through a series of curtained-off spaces, sometimes left alone, at other times supervised by a hyperactive white-suited interrogator, a sort of CIA gameshow host, who asks a series of questions about our online habits, travel movements, languages spoken, political beliefs and sense of humour. Responses lead to categorisation as either friends or enemies of the state, with alliances and ostracisation emerging among the participants. The debate about the line between security and tyranny has rarely been so stimulatingly debated.
In his 2014 book, No Place to Hide, Glenn Greenwald wrote that a contributing factor to Edward Snowden’s decision to leak classified information from the NSA was his consumption of video games: “The moral narrative at the heart of video games was part of his pre-adolescence and formed part of his moral understanding of the world and one’s obligation as an individual.”
Whether or not you agree with Snowden’s actions, the idea that playing video games could affect a person’s ethical position or even encourage any kind of philosophical thought is probably surprising. Yet we’re used to the notion that a person’s thinking could be influenced by the characters and conundrums in books, film and television; why not games? In fact, games have one big advantage that makes them especially useful for exploring philosophical ideas: they’re interactive.
As any student of philosophy will tell you, one of the primary ways of engaging with abstract questions is through thought experiments. Is Schrödinger’s cat dead or alive? Would you kill one person to save five? A thought experiment presents an imagined scenario (often because it wouldn’t be viable to perform the experiment in real life) to test intuitions about the consequences.
Video games, too, are made up of counterfactual narratives that test the player: here is a scenario, what would you do? Unlike books, film and television, games allow you to act on your intuition. Can you kill a character you’ve grown to know over hours of play, if it would save others?
Consider the question of what we can actually know. When the player of Spec Ops: The Line discovers their character has been hallucinating because of PTSD, the indistinguishability of the hallucinatory and non-hallucinatory experiences raises the question: how can we ever know if our experiences are real?
Given the relationship between player and player character, video games are uniquely placed to explore questions of personal identity. In Soma, the player’s perspective shifts – initially without their knowledge – from a man called Simon to a robot that has copies of Simon’s thoughts and memories. The player is presented with choices that test their intuition about whether the robot and Simon are the same person.
Another topic that fits neatly with the unique nature of games is the question of free will. Video game players have far more agency than book readers or film viewers, and game creators have played with this, perhaps most famously in the 2007 Ayn Rand-inspired game BioShock.
The question of free will leads into those of ethics. Virtue ethics – being good rather than doing good – has been explored in the Ultima series (1981 onwards) with creator Richard Garriott’s system of eight virtues. Utilitarianism, which states the best thing to do is maximise utility (often interpreted as general wellbeing), is a popular philosophical position for video game villains who would sacrifice the few to save the many.
There are explicitly philosophical games (for example, The Talos Principle), specialist game writers, and plenty of games that raise philosophical questions even if that’s not what their creators intended. As video games continue to mature, hopefully more game makers and educators will recognise their potential as a compelling medium through which to engage in philosophical thought.
Ten Things Video Games Can Teach Us by Jordan Erica Webber and Daniel Griliopoulos (Robinson, £14.99), is out on 17 August. To order a copy for £12.74, go to bookshop.theguardian.com
After Dr G Yunupingu died last month, Indigenous hip hop artist, actor and writer Adam Briggs – one half of AB Original, with MC/producer Trials – penned a tribute for Rolling Stone, describing his friendship with the man who he had met in 2013.
“As much as he was a virtuoso, [he] was also a loving, humorous and gentle person. He was a consummate showman, but also of the boys,” Briggs wrote. “To me, Dr G was an anomaly, not an enigma or the mystic ‘figure of the dreamtime’ ... I find these descriptions kind of a disservice to the actual person he was.”
AB Original won two awards at the National Indigenous Music awards (Nimas) in Darwin on Saturday night, but the public concert was dominated by memories of and tributes to Yunupingu.
The legendary solo artist and Yothu Yindi and Saltwater Band member bridged a gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australia through his music before he died young after a largely preventable illness of the kidney – a renal failure which disproportionately affects Indigenous communities.
One of Yunupingu’s last public appearances was this time last year, at the 2016 Nimas; he left hospital for the night to accept the prize of artist of the year from a wheelchair, the fifth time it was awarded to him.
Speaking to Guardian Australia on Saturday evening, Briggs said he had felt the loss of Yunupingu keenly, and watched as the public conversation about his friend was overtaken by an idea of a man, rather than the man himself.
“People bestowing these ideas of a magical, mythical being upon [Dr G] – it’s still pretty racist,” he said. “It’s like the other end of the spectrum of dehumanising someone. He was a real dude. He was a real person. And that’s what I wanted to drive home.”
Writing the Rolling Stone piece was cathartic for him. “I wanted to put something out there for everyone who knew him ... he was a phenomenal talent, a virtuoso, a showman – he was all of these things, but he was still my mate. And that was the story I wanted to tell.”
Held in the packed natural amphitheatre at Darwin botanic gardens, the Nimas hosted members of Yunupingu’s family and community, who spoke, danced and sang in tribute – many clad in yellow, the totem colour of his Gumatj clan. The musician’s uncle Dtjunga Dtjunga Yunupingu, who taught him his first three guitar chords, paid tribute to his nephew, a cultural leader of his Elcho Island community.
“I call him son and he calls me papa,” Dtjunga Dtjunga said. “He built a bridge through his song and introduced the world to our story and an understanding of Yolngu spiritual life … He left us without knowing his place in this nation; without knowing true unity for all Australians, both Yolngu and Balanda [non-Indigenous people], both walking and working together hand in hand, two laws, two people, one country … I hope we continue find better ways to walk together.”
Speaking with Guardian Australia, Dtjunga Dtjunga said he was happy to be at the Nimas for the first time, where his nephew had met so many of the friends who would now be playing for him.
He confirmed that a state funeral for Dr G would likely be held in September, in Darwin or in Arnhem Land. “I’ll think about it. If I want to bring it over to Arnhem Land, I may, because some people can’t afford to fly over here,” he said. “[Ours is] a small community, but then it grew because of him – he took the message [out] from this small country ... I hope so it will go further.”
Indigenous artist Stanley Gawurra Gaykamangu, who won four prizes at last year’s Nimas, also performed on Saturday night. Like Yunupingu, Gawurra is a Yolngu man of North East Arnhem Land who started in gospel music, and who has been praised for the beauty and strength of his voice, and his standing as a cultural leader.
“He changed everything, you know?” Gawurra told Guardian Australia. “Like G Yunupingu, I am also a cultural man, and I hope to be a leader for the future, to keep Indigenous youth and tell them right way, what is bad and what is good … One day I hope to become like him.”
Troy Cassar-Daley won the two biggest prizes of the evening, for best album and artist of the year (which he accepted via video message), and Rebecca Hatch won the Triple J Unearthed high Indigenous award. South Australian duo Electric Fields won best newcomer, and stunned the crowd with a polished, captivating live show, fusing electronica, soul and the Pitjantjatjara lyrics of lead singer Zaachariaha Fielding.
Congrats to Adelaide's own Electric Fields who took out 'New Talent of the Year' tonight at the National Indigenous Music Awards 🙌🏾 #NIMAs pic.twitter.com/GatbQaron4
Off-the-chain performance by #NIMAs Best New Talent, Electric Fields. pic.twitter.com/FrOn581Ft2
Leah Flanagan and Baker Boy were other performance highlights, and AB Original was joined by the Saltwater band and dancers from Dr Gs Galiwinku community on Elcho island for The Hunt, a 2014 song by Briggs and Dr G. Paul Kelly sang Archie Roach’s Native Born, and Maralinga – his tribute to another Indigenous leader who died in July, anti-nuclear activist Yami Lester.
Kelly also joined AB Original, Dan Sultan and Caiti Baker on stage for a performance of their cover of Dumb Things.
AB Original’s track January 26 won them two Nimas. The song – a particularly sweary anthem for a family-friendly event – argues for Australia to change the date of its national holiday, which marks the anniversary of the 1788 arrival of the first fleet of British ships.
The track became the catalyst for debate at Triple J to move the broadcast of their annual listener poll the Hottest 100 from Australia Day – a debate that was recently reinvigorated, when the station called on its listeners to have their say.
Speaking of their role in the movement, Trials said, “It’s nice to be a cog in the conversation. By no means did we ever try to be a vehicle in it, but to be a cog that turns amongst the machine is a beautiful thing.”
Briggs added: “And I just enjoy antagonising rednecks.”
After being dumped by Lord Byron in 1812, Lady Caroline Lamb re-evaluated her servants’ livery. She took a keen interest in livery. The new retainers’ outfits would feature specially engraved buttons inscribed (satirising the Byron family motto, Crede Byron) Ne crede Byron – don’t trust Byron.
Latin, bespoke buttons, hand-sewn alterations: how much easier it is, nowadays, for wealthy employers with a brand new message to refresh their outward-facing look. At the National Trust, for instance, when that body was prompted, on the anniversary of the decriminalisation of homosexuality, into an unprecedented show of LGBTQ sympathies, it must have been the work of a moment to issue staff with rainbow lanyards and badges.
Then again, National Trust volunteers can be less submissive than Georgian servants. At Felbrigg Hall, Norfolk, as recently reported, the Trust wanted volunteers to signal the inclusion of Felbrigg’s late owner, the writer Robert Wyndham Ketton-Cremer, in a project called Prejudice and Pride, celebrating gay people associated with its properties. But as Ketton-Cremer, also a JP and high sheriff, had neither, his family says, come out nor moved, not lacking for introductions, in circles where homosexuality was unconcealed, some of his relations – and some Felbrigg volunteers – considered that a liberty. A short film narrated by Stephen Fry, in which someone silently impersonates Ketton-Cremer, was undeniably ambitious in imagining how “Robert”, as it calls him throughout, must have felt about his sexuality: unhelpfully, the squire appears to have left no records.
In The Unfinished Portrait, “Robert”, as he seems not, in reality, to have been addressed, is shown wandering aimlessly around Felbrigg, with the artistic addition, at one point, of flapping birds – pigeons? – escaping from his head.
The brilliantly observant, also gay, diarist James Lees-Milne, who arranged Ketton-Cremer’s donation of Felbrigg to the Trust during the Second World War, appears to have missed these signs on his several meetings with “Wyndham”, who also went by “Bunny” to friends and relations. “We talked about his book, Norfolk Portraits. He is a delightful, cultivated man; a most conscientious landowner.” On another visit: “He is a trifle ill at ease rather than shy, yet punctilious, methodical and determined.”
Possibly anticipating objections that Lees-Milne’s was an accurate picture of Ketton-Cremer, and certainly an image the living squire chose to project, Fry concludes the Trust’s celebration of the revealed Ketton-Cremer with a justification. “To do anything less is to suggest that same-sex love and gender diversity are somehow wrong and lets past prejudice and discrimination go unchallenged.” The Trust, if feudalism and sexism merit similar consideration, could be ticking off the past for years to come.
Fry’s implication that critics of the project are homophobic, as opposed to, say, oversensitive, was, until a local standoff developed into a national story, effectively endorsed by the Trust’s outgoing director general, Dame Helen Ghosh. She told mutinous volunteers to “take a back seat”. Her head of volunteering, Annabel Smith, also warned (before a media-induced reversal) below-stairs reactionaries that their unpaid services were not welcome front of house. “All of our staff and volunteers sign up to our core ambition when they join us – we are an organisation that is for ever, for everyone.”
Continually repeated, the core ambition is one visitors might want to recite if they are ever incautious enough to visit, say, “the elegant Palladian home of the Dashwood family” on a Friday or Saturday, when it is closed to the public. West Wycombe Park is one of many places where the Trust struggles to reconcile an inclusive motto with literally exclusive reality: current Dashwoods, thanks to an ancient deal with Lees-Milne, get the place to themselves between September and April.
Maybe it’s unfortunate, as a Telegraph correspondent has pointed out, that the Trust did not, given the wealth of material, pick Lees-Milne for the Prejudice and Pride celebration, rather than the ambiguous Ketton-Cremer. Then again, Lees-Milne, who more or less assembled the Trust’s collection of historic houses, would nowadays, even with his sexual credentials, be required to take a back seat, for repeated crimes against the core ambition.
One evening in 1947, Lees-Milne mourns the separation of another family from its “ancient heritage”. “A social system has broken down. What will replace it beyond government by the masses, uncultivated, rancorous, savage, philistine, the enemies of all things beautiful? How I detest democracy. More and more I believe in benevolent autocracy.” He was too hard on himself: union officials have protested, without success, about the free housing for favoured donors, including, hilariously, the Rothschilds. And as the choice of subjects for Prejudice and Pride films demonstrate, the Trust is still apt, motto notwithstanding, to find property owners more captivating than their servants.
That Lees-Milne’s Daily Telegraph-based successors should now take so regularly against their natural allies at the Trust testifies to the success of Ghosh, a former civil servant, in reimagining her organisation as an unofficial national conscience, positioned a little above the BBC, the Anglican church, the children’s commissioner and the chief medical officer. Not content to preserve the landscape, which it has done superbly since 1895, her Trust has steadily extended its zones of edification to take in climate change, parenting, the correction of (certain) historic inequalities, provoking bouts of conservative apoplexy that if not intentional, may not be unwelcome. Rows about liberal elite offences against the flapjack or the holiness of Easter eggs eclipse trickier questions of curation or, indeed, what this vast organisation is now for.
As for its great properties, Ghosh has vouchsafed, in an interview calculated to horrify conservationists, that there might be too much “stuff” in them. Paintings, furniture and that. Her organisation’s “21st-century ambition”, though dead keen on being “relevant and necessary to people and their day-to-day lives”, makes no mention of stuff, whether historic houses, art or the landscape itself.
In some important respects, however, the line from Lees-Milne to Ghosh, whose imminent loss is Balliol’s gain, is unbroken. He thought the public philistine: her Trust judges them, in turn, to be so utterly incapable of independent thought as to be unable go outdoors without a prominent sign, or 20, urging visitors to admire the view (the one it just disfigured), eat a picnic or to count something it might find exotic, like a bee. Admittedly that contradicts Ghosh’s worries about the public capacity to absorb more than one thing at a time. “We can make them work much less hard,” she says.
If there is limited sympathy for the volunteers required either to promote Fry’s dire film or to dob themselves in for homophobia, their peremptory treatment suggests that Lees-Milne’s dream of benevolent autocracy has also been partly fulfilled. As Ghosh exits, it will be for her successor to clarify what she hasn’t: how her vision of inclusiveness – or else – can ever accord with those parts of the Trust designed by Lees-Milne, “to preserve the face of England as it was under private ownership”.
It has been ugly. Two weeks of full-on, culture-wars inspired, anti-intellectualism; a fortnight of alternative-facts, dog-whistle racism and shameless misogyny. Yet this – one of the nastiest Twitter rows to date – was sparked by, of all things, the emergence of a children’s cartoon set in ancient Rome.
Hostilities commenced when Paul Joseph Watson, who goes by the name @PrisonPlanet on Twitter, attacked a BBC cartoon. His issue was that the father of the central family was portrayed as dark skinned. Sensing a politically correct plot to take over British history, one presumably orchestrated by the liberal elite from somewhere deep within their headquarters in the out-of-touch, metropolitan, media bubble, Watson went on the offensive. “I mean, who cares about historical accuracy, right?” he tweeted. Battle lines were drawn when former teacher Mike Stuchbery responded by pointing out that “Roman Britain was ethnically diverse, almost by design”. From there it rumbled on.
Yet even as the online phalanxes crashed into one another, I presumed, naively as it turns out, that when one of the world’s foremost experts on the Roman empire, a professor of classics at the University of Cambridge no less, offered her judgment on the matter all but the most rabid culture warriors would accept that this was a false alarm and stand down the troops. Not a bit of it, because not only had Professor Mary Beard taken away their political football, she’d done so while being openly and inexcusably female.
In space, so they say, no one can hear you scream. Online, many people seem unable to hear facts, even when they carefully laid out by a renowned expert. I am not a classicist. Which is why I defer to the scholarship of academics such as Beard when it comes to Roman history, but everything I have read leads me to conclude that there is a broad consensus of academic opinion that there were people who lived in Roman Britain who would fit the modern definition of “black”. Not that the Romans recognised race in modern terms nor recorded it in the records they left us.
At its height, Rome’s empire stretched right along the coast of north Africa and sub-Saharan Africans passed to and fro across its porous southern border. The archaeological evidence, much of it based on relatively new forensic techniques such as isotope analysis, reinforces the historical record, indicating that Africans from both above and below the Sahara made their homes and built their lives in the British Isles. It has been research such as this that has given us the “ivory bangle lady”, a well-to-do, part-African resident of 3d-century York. More recently, the “Beachy Head lady”, the first black Briton known to us, has been discovered using a similar suite of forensic techniques. None of these remarkable discoveries or any of the other evidence had much purchase on Twitter.
Were this just another case of the online angry brigade attacking Beard for being knowledgeable and female at the same time, it would have been unpleasant but not new. What was novel here was that the American economist and philosopher Nassim Nicholas Taleb, presumably at something of a loose end, took time out to lead the charge against Beard, accusing her of “talking bullshit”. In a moment of near hysteria, Taleb announced that an online row about the accuracy of a fictional character in a children’s cartoon was definitive proof that “scholarship is dead in the UK”.
To be optimistic for a moment, we need to remember that thousands of people rushed to Beard’s defence and continue to do so. A number of famous voices also leant their support and lamented that, again, a women in the public eye has become the focus for a storm of vile abuse. It is also comforting to remember that beyond Twitter, most people, in my experience at least, regard the fact that Britain under the Roman empire was a more racially diverse society than we once thought as little more than a fascinating historical detail. It’s one of those surprising facts that gets less surprising once you start thinking about it. We know the Roman empire contained people from three continents and we know that the Romans loved to travel, as demonstrated by the thousands of miles of arrow-straight roads they left behind them, all of them famously leading to Rome itself. But the events of the past three weeks should be seen as part of pattern. Similar, although far less aggressive denouncements have been made in the past against those who have sought to portray the presence of black people in eras of British history before the Second World War.
In 2007, Doctor Who, then in the form of David Tennant, took a trip to Shakespeare’s London in an episode set in 1599. The depiction of the Elizabethan capital, replete with its small black population, led to another charge of historical inaccuracy. The programme makers were accused of distorting British history in the name of political correctness. Sound familiar?
The online campaign against historical diversity raised its banners again earlier this year. For a second time, their target was the time lord, who by then had regenerated into the more grizzled figure of Peter Capaldi. This time, the doctor had time-travelled to regency London and again black faces could be seen in the crowd. Walking around the London of 1814 the doctor’s companion, Bill Potts, played by the mixed-race Pearl Mackie, noted that the city was “a bit more black than they show in the movies”. “So was Jesus,” quipped the doctor. “History’s a whitewash.” On both occasions, the historical evidence upon which the writers based these scenes is uncontested. Yet still accusations of historical inaccuracy were levelled and angry voices raised online.
What we’re seeing is a backlash against any attempt, whether from the world of scholarship or popular culture, to paint non-white people back into the British past. Those of us who write about this history have long been familiar with this. In the 1990s, an assistant in a London bookshop informed the African American historian Gretchen Gerzina that there “were no black people in England before 1945”. Gerzina rather effectively disproved that assertion by going on to write the classic book on black people in Georgian London, Black London.
The deeper, more fundamental question is why? Why are some people so affronted by the very idea that the black presence in Britain stretches back so many centuries? Why, even when historical evidence is presented and the opinions of experts given, are they determined to dismiss the facts and, as we have seen in this case, seek to trash the reputation of respected scholars? The refusal to accept that the black presence in Britain has a long and deep history is not just a symptom of racism, it is a form of racism. It is part of a rearguard and increasingly unsustainable defence of a fantasy monochrome version of British history.
At midnight next Thursday British rule in India, extending back for nearly two centuries, will end: India will become two independent Dominions. There is no parallel in history for this act of statesmanship, as there is none for the moral and material benefits which the British Raj has brought to India. What the great change will mean for India herself is beyond prediction. The dragon’s teeth of hatred and violence so long sown by Congress may yet produce an evil harvest. One hope there is, however, and it is bright. In the very act of separation, Hindu and Moslem seem, by the speeches of their leaders, to have found the means of agreement: nor does it appear impossible for the Princes to co-operate in the new India without sacrifice of their essential rights. The renewed threats of famine in some areas should forcibly remind Indian politicians that independence will not profit their country unless its menacing economic problems are taken promptly and firmly in hand.
One of the current crazes in wireless entertainment is for what is called, rather solemnly, “listener participation”. Whether they know it or not, the contrivers of these abundant free-for-all programmes are taking a leaf out of the dominie’s book, for it must be 50 years since schoolmasters made the discovery that time passes more agreeably if the capricious little creatures are encouraged to join in rather than listen.
Fun at puzzle corner, WE Williams
“I believe that whereas Nazism may revive in Germany, Fascism can never revive in Italy … The Germans are irrational and emotional people; the Italians are a rational, logical people. They announce principles but they practise compromise.”
Hugh Trevor-Roper
He directed Merchant-Ivory classics such as The Remains of the Day, Howards End and A Room with a View, but American director James Ivory is struggling to interest investors in his latest project. The problem, it seems, lies with his writer: William Shakespeare. For more than five years, Ivory has tried in vain to raise money for a cinema adaptation of Richard II.
Despite 50 years of critical acclaim and Oscar recognition, plus British actors Tom Hiddleston and Damian Lewis lined up to star in his production, financiers are refusing to part with their money. “They look at you like you’re crazy,” he said. “There is an assumption that there is no money to be made from such an investment.”
This is despite the proliferation of royal dramas on our small screens in the past couple of years, from Wolf Hall to Victoria, to more modern versions of the British monarchy such as The Crown and an imagined future in King Charles III. Even the frenzy around Richard III since the discovery of his skeleton in Leicester five years ago has failed to ignite enthusiasm for the other Richard, it seems.
Ivory’s screenplay is written by Chris Terrio, who won an Oscar for Argo, Ben Affleck’s 2012 thriller about the 1979 Iranian hostage crisis. Potential investors praise the script and describe the project as a “terrific idea”, said Ivory, “but nobody comes forward with the money”.
He needs around £15m, which he says is “nothing as far as movies are concerned these days, but no one seems to want to take the risk”.
This is not the first time Ivory has tried to get Richard II off the ground. It appears that Kenneth Branagh put the kibosh on a previous production in 1992, around the time Merchant and Ivory were making The Remains of the Day.
“I had another cast. Daniel Day-Lewis as Richard II and Kenneth Branagh as Bolingbroke, or Henry IV as he becomes, and Emma Thompson as the queen,” said Ivory. “And then, unfortunately, Branagh said ‘I couldn’t play Bolingbroke, I’d have to play Richard’.
“We were about to make another movie anyway, so I let it go and we didn’t proceed with it.”
Ivory, 89, founded Merchant Ivory with his production partner, the late Ismail Merchant, and collaborated on many films with screenwriter Ruth Prawer Jhabvala.
Celebrated for literary adaptations, their films became well known for visual beauty and period detail. As well as established stars such as Maggie Smith, they cast young actors such as Daniel Day-Lewis, who played Cecil in Room with a View. The 1992 film Howards End, based on EM Forster’s 1910 novel, won three Oscars. It has just undergone a new 4K resolution restoration for its 25th anniversary.
Merchant died in 2005, but Ivory said: “Had he been around, [Richard II] would have been made. We don’t have a really good producer like Ismail.” Ivory is enthusiastic about the casting for his proposed film, describing Hiddleston and Lewis as “wonderful actors”.
Both have extensive experience of Shakespeare. Hiddleston, who starred in the BBC’s award-winning The Night Manager is playing Hamlet this month in a Branagh stage production. Lewis appeared with the Royal Shakespeare Company before television dramas such as Homeland, Wolf Hall and Billions.
Ivory knows exactly how he would adapt Richard II for the big screen: “It would make a fantastic thing visually to do a medieval film in 3D. We know very little about the medieval age. You read books about it. You go to museums and see the armour and so forth, but that’s really all we know about it. When it’s delivered as a film, you learn a lot.”
He would shoot some of it in Westminster Hall, whose magnificent hammer-beam roof – the largest medieval timber roof in northern Europe – was commissioned in 1393 by Richard II.
Producer Stephen Evans was not surprised to hear of Ivory’s struggle to finance his film. He encountered “much scepticism” from potential investors in making Henry V with Branagh. It was only through friends in the City that he could fully finance the movie. Despite Oscar nominations for Branagh as best director and actor, and great reviews, the film did not do well at the box office.
Evans’s 1993 film, Much Ado About Nothing – again directed by Branagh – “fared better”, he said, primarily because Branagh and Thompson were now major names and the cast included Denzel Washington, Michael Keaton and Keanu Reeves.
“Without them, the film would certainly not have been made,” he added. “It was well-received and worked better as it was a comedy.”
He said: “Investing in Shakespeare is a labour of love. So many investment funds are frightened of the financial potential in making Shakespeare. The last Shakespeare released, Macbeth – despite having Michael Fassbender and Marion Cotillard as the two leads and being well received – only did middling business.
“It is clearly very difficult. I do think that, if Shakespeare was around now, he would be in LA writing scripts for Star Wars and the like. There is so much good stuff that has been done on Shakespeare, it will take a new generation to rediscover his works and try to put new angles on his genius.”
In the A–Z of Paul Kelly’s career – something he spent some 550 pages discussing in his excellent “mongrel memoir” How to Make Gravy, which obliquely discussed in alphabetical order the inspirations, motivations and memories lurking behind more than 100 of his songs – attention always turns back to his third album, Post, the one where he found his true songwriting voice.
Post was recorded as a solo album in 1985 but it featured the core of his band the Coloured Girls, later renamed the Messengers. It was this album and the ones that followed (Gossip, Under the Sun, So Much Water So Close to Home and Comedy) which cemented Kelly’s stature. Gossip, especially, was towering, packed with an astonishing 24 songs that never flagged.
Those albums were made a long time ago, and Steve Connolly, the guitarist whose stinging, economical leads were the linchpin of the Messengers, died tragically young in 1995. Kelly has made more than 20 albums since then, all of them studded with gems – but while he has surrounded himself with great players, he has never had a band with quite the same chemistry.
Life Is Fine is an unabashed attempt to recapture the feel and energy of some of those early records. Restlessness has seen Kelly take some odd detours of late: his last album was a collection of songs he’d been asked to perform at funerals; before that, a collection of Shakespeare’s sonnets set to music.
This time there’s no concept weighing the songs down. It’s just a Paul Kelly album, and a very good one at that.
Kelly has learned to play piano in recent years. Playing a new instrument can invigorate a songwriter; it takes things back to basics (in a reversal, Nick Cave, who’d previously composed on piano, learned to play guitar for his albums with Grinderman). Simplicity is at the heart of Finally Something Good, My Man’s Got a Cold and I Smell Trouble. The latter, especially, is one of Kelly’s best songs in years.
He’s also in good form lyrically. The stomp-and-grind of My Man’s Got a Cold is sung with relish by Vika Bull, who’s fed up with her lover’s pathetic man flu: “He’s off his wine and bread / He even said no to head!” Vika’s sister, Linda, gets a turn too, singing an old song, Don’t Explain. It’s a kiss-off from an older woman to a younger man: “If one night you’re lonely, and I have other company, don’t complain.”
Their contributions, singing songs written from a female point of view, are welcome. But Kelly’s voice is at its sweetest on the lovely Petrichor, with not much more than a little steel guitar for company. On I Smell Trouble, he’s riddled with anxiety, the song building on a minimalist piano line, with Peter Luscombe playing his ride cymbal as though he’s skipping rope and could stumble at any moment.
Firewood and Candles is another gem. Ashley Naylor, stalwart guitarist for Even and the RocKwiz house band, plays a riff that instantly recalls Connolly’s snaking line on one of Kelly’s greatest rockers, Sweet Guy. But where Sweet Guy was bitter in its irony – a dead-eyed story of domestic violence – Firewood and Candles is exactly as its title suggests: a warm song of home and hearth.
Kelly’s in a good place here – but if that makes Life Is Fine sound glib, it’s not. In what could be a reference to Courtney Barnett’s Elevator Operator, the narrator of the closing title track finds himself 16 flights up, contemplating suicide, only to step back. Life, as Connolly’s premature death showed, can be as fine as those thin, wiry leads which the guitarist threaded through classics like Before Too Long. And it comes at you fast.
• Paul Kelly’s Life Is Fine is out now through EMI
A judge on Friday threw out a Denver radio host’s case against Taylor Swift in a trial that delved into their duelling lawsuits over whether he groped her during a backstage meet-and-greet and whether she and her team ruined his career.
US District Judge William Martinez determined that the pop star could not be held liable because David Mueller failed to prove that she personally set out to have him fired after the 2013 photo op. His identical allegations against Swift’s mother and her radio liaison will go to jurors for a verdict.
Mueller denies groping Swift and sued the singer, her mother, Andrea Swift, and their radio handler, Frank Bell, seeking up to $3 million as compensation for his ruined career.
The singer-songwriter said in her countersuit that she wanted a symbolic $1 and the chance to stand up for other women. The jury will still consider her claim.
Swift teared up as the judge read his decision, saying there was no evidence that her actions were insincere. Afterward, her team smiled and embraced. Mueller’s side did not speak.
The move came after days of testimony from the singer and others and just before jurors were set to hear closing arguments.
Swift spent an hour on the witness stand on Thursday defiantly recounting what she called a “despicable and horrifying and shocking” encounter before a concert.
“He stayed attached to my bare ass-cheek as I lurched away from him,” Swift testified. “It was a definite grab. A very long grab,” she added in her testimony.
Swift’s testy exchange with Mueller’s attorney occasionally elicited chuckles even from the six-woman, two-man jury. She got a laugh when she said her security guard saw Mueller “lift my skirt” but someone would have had to have been underneath her to see the actual groping “and we didn’t have anyone positioned there”.
Swift testified that after the photo was taken she tried to get as far away from Mueller as she could. She said she told him and his girlfriend, who was also in the photo, “thank you for coming” in a monotone voice before they left.
She also said she was stunned and did not say anything to Mueller or halt the event after he left because she did not want to disappoint several dozen people waiting in line for photos with her.
In the image, shown to jurors during opening statements but not publicly released, Mueller’s hand is behind Swift, just below her waist. Mueller’s then-girlfriend, Shannon Melcher, is on the other side of Swift. All three are smiling.
Melcher testified on Friday that she saw nothing happen during the brief encounter and that she and Mueller were rudely confronted and escorted out of the arena that evening. Melcher said Mueller was devastated by the accusation.
She said she and Mueller started out as co-workers at country station KYGO-FM and became romantically involved in February 2013, a few months before the concert. They drifted apart late in 2013, but Melcher says they remained friends.
During her debut solo show, I’ll Have What She’s Having, comic Phoebe Walsh rattles off an onslaught of self-eviscerating one-liners in the style of a pointy-fingered club comic. She is the “sassy best-friend character in her own life story”. She is “Pocahontas on the streets, Grandmother Willow from Pocahontas between the sheets”. She is, quite simply, “Miss Selfridge”.
Much of Walsh’s set taps into the online trend for self-absorption and self-deprecation. It recalls popular social-media accounts that trade in the bleak realities of being a gross, lonely human on the internet, the antithesis of the humourless humble-bragging epidemic. She channels the essence of So Sad Today, Expectation v Reality, Girl With No Job, The Fat Jewish and your vacant reflection in the black screen between Netflix episodes. Such is her zeitgeisty and somewhat unhinged take on the single-girl-in-the-big-city schtick, she is also probably not for everyone. “You’ll either relate to what she’s saying or feel glad that you don’t,” reads the show’s blurb.
“I definitely split the audience in some places,” says Walsh when we meet in a cafe. “Men tend to be like: why is she talking about orgasms again?”
Solo standup is still relatively new to Walsh. Brought up in Burgess Hill near Brighton, she always loved comedy but “never would have thought being a comedian was something you could do”. Luckily, she discovered friends with a similarly surreal outlook, and formed Oyster Eyes, an oddball sketch group with Natasia Demetriou, Phil Dunning and Liam Stewart, whom she met at university. They took their show to Edinburgh, but Walsh says they were too weird for anything to take off: “Nobody knew what to do with us, and we didn’t know what to do with ourselves.”
Then came a couple of botched attempts to “find her voice”, one of which included a bit with a Disney song and a “character that nobody was sure if it was me or a character, and everyone in the audience hated me. I hated myself.”
On paper Walsh may appear a little angsty, but in reality she carries herself lightly with a knowing smile. Her hero is Maria Bamford – and she certainly has a twitchy anxiousness on stage, presenting the chirpy veneer that everything is OK when clearly the walls are collapsing in on her. (Two of her online videos capture this pose perfectly: one as a tragic, avocado-obsessed clean-eating guru; the other a manically horny woman who attempts to seduce her boyfriend.)
Walsh is brought to the fringe this year by Fight in the Dog, the production company co-founded by writer and comic Liam Williams. Along with a raft of other sketch and character comics including Tom Ballard, Giants and Jon Pointing, she is one of many unconventional and endearing new voices at the festival. Williams, who first saw her “honing her craftily sweet shtick” in Oyster Eyes, praises her “appealing vulnerability, gutsy writing and innovative ideas”.
I’ll Have What She’s Having strings together random thoughts and impromptu acting sequences that explore the mindset of a hopeless, clueless adult and the homogenous nature of being a hipster in 2017. It’s so scattergun, it’s almost like scrolling through a social media feed (some of her jokes were tweets she decided not to send).
Rather than reeling out jokes and road testing material on Twitter like many comics do, Walsh prefers to lurk and observe the tragic figure behind the online facade. “I only just started talking about the internet quite recently, but I knew I wanted to for quite a while because it’s always the elephant in the room. I know it’s so uncool to talk about how much we are all on our iPhones, but ironically we are all spending five minutes trying to find a nonchalant emoji. Anything you say that’s offhand on Twitter is something you’ve probably spent time sweating over in your room.”
It's uncool to take about how much we are on our iPhones, but the internet is always the elephant in the room
Self-loathing is an archetypical trait in comedy, but Walsh also possesses an extraordinary confidence. “One part of me thinks I’m the best, I’m great, I’ve got such a great sense of humour,” she says. “And the other part is like: I’m a piece of shit.” Amid the misery, her show therefore features spikes of pro-Walsh propaganda: during the “sex section” of the show, she claims she can orgasm during intercourse at the thought of her own body. Elsewhere, Walsh, who is bisexual, sunnily declares that anyone who doesn’t identify as somewhere on the sexually fluid spectrum is “basic”.
“I did that joke once at Mae Martin’s new-material night, and she said it was good because I was owning it. I think it’s nice to turn it on its head to say: ‘You’re the basic one. You need to sort yourselves out.’”
After our meeting she has a show and, tomorrow, an audition she “won’t get”. She might do. She should. Not just because she has the strange and subtle acting chops that ought to be seen on screen, but because she really needs to: “There’s no money in this. Some comics are subsidised by their family. Whereas I’m 30, just finding my voice and I am deep into my overdraft,” Walsh says with a big smile and showy cheer. “There’s nothing! This is it.”
Being famous for fame’s sake wasn’t the goal when I co-founded the Go-Go’s. I just wanted to sing and have a laugh. But social media and reality shows like American Idol have created a malignant narcissism. I thought it was the end of music when they started.
After three decades of cocaine addiction I can’t believe I’m not dead. I should actually look like the Phantom of the Opera with just two holes in the front of my face. I’m contrary by nature and think my addiction owed a lot to that. I always wanted to be a bad girl. I loved all the edgy drug films that made me want to go out and do drugs. I was just born that way.
When I started to make money I went a bit crazy. Once I went to the race track and woke up the next morning owning a horse. I’d been drinking, doing drugs and betting and it seemed like a good idea at the time.
Discovering Buddhism and chanting a few years before I got sober at 47 was so powerful. It was like holding a mirror up and realising I was in serious trouble. My new album is Buddhist chants in pop form and it’s really personal. Some people won’t like it, but I’m not going to just crank stuff out for the sake of it.
My absence as a mother when my son James was growing up is my biggest regret. After I got sober he told me that when he was three he thought I lived at the airport. That really hurt.
After I got sober my son told me that when he was three he thought I lived at the airport
I always felt like an imposter until I got sober. I once saw people queuing to see me outside an arena and all I thought was: “Why are they here to see me?”
I’m a little bit wary of people. It freaked me out when a fan connected with me on social media then had plastic surgery to look like me, dyed his hair the same colour and got a pug dog like mine. He was also a hacker so I had to change all my passwords. It was disturbing, but I think that sort of thing happens to well-known people all the time, especially now.
Marriage isn’t easy. I’ve been married to Morgan [Mason] for 31 years, but we’ve always given each other space. We actually like each other and he still makes me laugh. I put him through the wringer with my addiction and when I asked him once why he stuck with me he just said he always saw the person underneath. My husband is much evolved.
My son has made me more politically active when it comes to LGBTQ rights. When he came out, I worried about what the world was going to be like for him. He’s so smart and he’s been an activist since he was 17, but with the way the way the world’s going, I did worry about him.
The American Dream always felt possible to me. Against all odds – the tough upbringing, the addiction, the pop life, all my experiences – I think that attitude is why I’m still sitting here, soon to be 60.
Heaven on Earth, the 30th anniversary box set and Belinda’s new album Wilder Shores are released on 29 September. Her UK tour starts on 1 October (belindacarlisle.tv)
Often, even now, with twenty-four days of the cruise behind her and only twenty more to be lived through, the fears she had experienced the first evening would recur: She was at sea, alone. There was no one around to tip stewards, order drinks, plan the nights, make love to her, pay the bills, tell her where she was and what it was all about. How had this happened?”
Even on terra firma, on a far shorter trip, or in the midst of a crowd of jolly steward-tippers, we’ve probably all experienced some of the feelings that strike Mrs Ellenger, one of the two central characters in Mavis Gallant’s 1954 story “Going Ashore”. Having a far worse time is the other, Mrs Ellenger’s daughter, Emma, who must cope with her mother’s anxiety, ennui and her persistent habit of telling everyone how well she treats her (she doesn’t).
For obvious reasons – weight of expectation, disruption to the comfortable if tedious rhythms of daily routine, relentless proximity to loved ones and others – holidays are a lightning rod for troublesome emotions. As such, they are beloved by novelists and short story writers. Throw in a few logistical nightmares, such as treacherous roads and useless maps, inhospitable locals, the sudden descent of illness, and you have a plot raring to go.
You also have a tableau – the resort, the campsite, the villa – and a finite window of time in which your characters will experience their crisis and, perhaps, its resolution. It encourages theatricality, as in Deborah Levy’s brilliant Swimming Home, which opens with an unexpected guest materialising in the pool and proceeds to subvert every feature of the middle-class intellectual’s summer break, its marauding visitor provoking revelation, conflict and betrayal. And in her most recent novel, Hot Milk, Levy once again visited tourist terrain, depositing an uneasy, uncommunicative mother and daughter in search of a miracle cure in southern Spain.
Jellyfish – prehistoric, poisonous, all but invisible until it’s too late – featured heavily, as they did in David Nicholls’ Us, which boasted a scene that surely put many of its readers off a leisurely dip lest they too swim directly and unsuspectingly into an angry swarm. Us, cleverly deploying its author’s trademark use of structure, sent a fragile family of three on a grand tour of Europe’s high-culture spots, its picaresque arc made more charged by the fact that divorce and dissolution had been announced at its very beginning. How much can a simple holiday hope to bear if disaster has already struck?
Sex and death are everywhere on terrible holidays
To an even greater extent than in reality, fictional holidays carry within them the seeds of the past, ready to push through the soil and break cover. In Bernard MacLaverty’s new novel, Midwinter Break, a couple at the beginning of their final act travel from Scotland to Amsterdam, for no obvious purpose other than pleasure and relaxation. Immediately a certain secrecy announces itself. His furtive drinking is made more disturbing by the enforced intimacy of a hotel room (and the giveaway clunk that follows an attempt to dispose of a bottle in a hotel corridor bin); her desire to seek out a sanctuary glimpsed many years before. But gradually, those few days yield a painful insight into the couple’s past, and only a faltering gesture towards their possible future.
Sex and death are everywhere on terrible holidays (brilliant holidays tend to concentrate on the former). One of the best jokes in Jonathan Franzen’s The Corrections is to picture its elderly couple, Alfred and Enid, on board a Nordic cruise ship where one eats in the Søren Kierkegaard dining room. That doomed trip, of course, is one of the novel’s most celebrated episodes; memorable too are its evocations of Christmas, another favourite fictional flashpoint.
If death looms, sex is generally elusive, as in Martin Amis’s dolce vita romp (perhaps not how he might describe it) The Pregnant Widow, in which everyone wants to be at it with the person they are not currently at it with. “This is the climax of my youth,” thinks its antihero, Keith. “All will be decided here.” Predictably, all is not decided.
As in life, things loosen up a little when we lower our expectations, and in writing, this means travelling rather than holidaying, and the mazy adventures of being lost in which Geoff Dyer specialises, for example. Or think of the compelling dislocations and alienations of Teju Cole’s spectacular Open City, here captured in a trip to Belgium: “The days went by slowly, and my sense of being entirely alone in the city intensified. Most days I stayed indoors, reading, but I read without pleasure. On the occasions when I went out, I wandered aimlessly in the parks and in the museum district. The stones paving the street were sodden, liquid underfoot, and the sky, dirty for days, was redolent with moisture.”
Awful weather on holiday? Bearable. Reading without pleasure? That’s another matter altogether.
You might know Watling Street as a shortcut in the heart of the City of London where crumpled-looking office workers dash on their way to somewhere else or linger after work for an expensive pint. But as John Higgs explains, the street is more than a quaint rat run with a Dick Whittington vibe. While its origins are “far older than recorded history”, it remains one of the great highways of modern Britain, running virtually unbroken from Dover to Anglesey. You probably don’t recognise it because it mostly goes by other names: the A2, the A5 and, when it’s feeling fancy, the M6 Toll. Sometimes, as it wiggles its way through the market towns of central England, it becomes simply “the high street”.
Around the time of last year’s referendum, Higgs set out to explore the people and places around Watling Street. The idea was to take a series of soundings about where modern Britain (or rather, England with a top slice of Wales) sees itself today. What stories did we tell about ourselves that resulted in the vote to leave the EU? What new versions might be needed now if we are to start to resolve the bitter disagreements that the referendum laid bare?
Where the motorway crosses over the Roman road section of Watling Street, the ghosts of 20 legionaries floated into view
Higgs puts us on notice that we will need to dig deep. He recalls the moment in 2003 when a local family was travelling on the M6 in Staffordshire. Just at the point where the motorway crosses over the Roman road section of Watling Street, the ghosts of 20 legionaries floated into view. Their legs weren’t visible, which makes sense when you recall that today’s street is a whole shin-height higher than it was in the first century when the Romans tiled over ancient British trackways. Only by digging down through the intervening layers of material and psychic rubble, Hicks suggests, will we find an alternative account of where we have come from and a clue as to where we might go next.
It is concerning these moments of what Robert Macfarlane calls “English Eerie”, when an uncanny visitation from the past disrupts the placid domestic present, that Higgs is at his most persuasive. On the London leg of his journey he meets Southwark’s resident shaman, the visionary poet John Constable. Every year, Constable mounts a piece of raucous street theatre dedicated to honouring the women who worked in the medieval brothels around Southwark Cathedral, yet whose spent bodies were denied a dignified burial. In an annual act of reparation and celebration, Constable leads his motley crew – a ramshackle crowd of goth morris dancers, rough sleepers and the simply curious – to the gates of what was once Cross Bones graveyard and hollers out the names of the outcast women, one by one.
This mood of ecstatic recuperation is still going strong a hundred miles further up Watling Street where Higgs encounters Alan Moore, the revered comic book author of V for Vendetta and Watchmen. Last year Moore published Jerusalem, a novel of Blakean brightness which suggested that Northampton is the omphalos of the nation, the midpoint of England’s “dreamtime” where past, present and future come together in a subversive shiver. What thrills Higgs about Moore, Constable and other survivors of the postwar counterculture is the way that these ageing seers and sages have stayed true to their early ideals. Unconcerned about money, happy to stay in the town, even the house, in which they were born, they continue to serve a vision of the world in which spirituality and metaphysics are indivisible from progressive politics and social justice.
Just how desperately we need such a dose of utopia becomes apparent when Higgs stops off at Dunstable, which sits at the point where Watling Street crosses another ancient track, the Icknield Way. Dunstable was once a thriving market town with the usual mix of Waitrose, Sainsbury’s and local independents; now it is mostly boarded up, and the remaining chains look shifty. The reason, economists argue, is because large retailers decided to open out-of-town megastores and consumers migrated to online shopping. But for Higgs, Dunstable’s sorry state is less about the cruel logic of late capitalism and more about the town’s inability to tap into the “noosphere”, a term coined in the 1920s to describe that rich mulch of shared culture, thought, myth and law from which inspiration and rebirth spring. Heading towards the one bit of new building in the town, Higgs finds that the Grove theatre complex is already promising that this year’s pantomime, still eight months away, will star someone from Coronation Street and two contestants from Britain’s Got Talent. No wonder, he suggests, that central Bedfordshire voted overwhelmingly to leave Europe: “all you know is that it will be something different, so that’s what you choose”.
As long as Watling Street stays in the realm of the noosphere, of myth and story, then it does just fine. It’s when Higgs starts to suggest a way that this world of Miss Havisham (Rochester) and Benny Hill (St Albans), not to mention Alan Turing (Bletchley Park) and Indiana Jones (Elstree Studios, Borehamwood), might somehow translate into direct action in Brexit Britain that things start to feel implausible. A broadside against private education (Tom Brown’s Schooldays, Rugby) and the suggestion of a land value tax (Weston Park, Lichfield) stand out from a narrative that proclaims its indeterminacy. Towards the end, Higgs reveals that, over the course of his journey, he has given us three alternative explanations for how Ian Fleming (St Margaret’s Bay, Dover) came up with James Bond’s 007 handle. It could be after a Kent bus route, or a first world war German code, or the cipher used by the Elizabethan magician John Dee. The point, Higgs says, is that all of these stories have a plausible provenance and we are free to pick the one we like best. This may be a lovely advertisement for the rich plurality of the noosphere, but won’t be much help in finding a new island story on which all Britons can agree. A complacency about the corrosive power of “alternative facts” is surely what got us into this mess in the first place.
• Watling Street: Travels Through Britain and its Ever Present Past by John Higgs (W&N, £18.99). To order a copy for £16.14, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
It is 30 years this month since Eric B & Rakim released their album Paid in Full, which inaugurated the golden age of hip-hop. If you need reminding how remote that era is from today, subtracting the same 30 years from 1987 would take you to a world yet to experience Elvis Presley’s Jailhouse Rock. Hip Hop Hooray (12 August, from 7am, 6 Music) is the faintly Crackerjack title given to 12 hours of programming celebrating this anniversary and its musical heritage, fronted by Mary Anne Hobbs, Huey Morgan, Liz Kershaw, Gilles Peterson, Craig Charles and Nemone.
A mere 20 years before Paid in Full, the Marine Offences Act of 1967 was bringing to an end the short and colourful career of the UK radio pirates and ushering in Radio 1 and 2. In Johnnie Walker Meets the Pirates (14 August, 10pm, Radio 2), the man who kept broadcasting in the early days of illegality talks to Emperor Rosko, Tom Edwards, Tony Blackburn, Pete Brady and others about their brief life on the ocean waves.
Marking the 70th anniversary of the partition of India, there is a new dramatisation of Salman Rushdie’s 1981 novel Midnight’s Children (14 August, 11.45pm; 15 August, from 9am, Radio 4), whose hero Saleem Sinai is born on the stroke of the clock that announced the birth of this momentous new arrangement. Another literary offering comes in the form of Love Henry James: The Portrait of a Gentleman (12 August, 2.30pm, Radio 4), Peter Ansorge’s dramatic explanation of what was going through the mind of the master when he was writing The Portrait of a Lady in 1880. James wrote the instalments of the novel – which was being published in magazines long before he had decided how it was going to turn out – in the city of Venice. He found that the natural wonders of the place, including a handsome young gondolier, kept him from getting on with his work as he would like. Here Guy Paul plays the writer, while Katherine Kingsley is the American novelist trying to get her hooks in him.
The people who do The Daily, the excellent news podcast from the New York Times, are slowly realising that the current state of play in Washington means that they have a situation and a cast of characters in their crosshairs who are more extreme and more interesting than the highly coached stars of pop music, movies and sport. And so they’re following the goings-on in the city with a new podcast called The New Washington. Introducing the new stream, the paper’s Carl Hulse observes that politicians are far more likely to submit themselves to a long conversation than to the cut and thrust of a press conference or TV interview. With the new extended interview format, the politico hopes they will get their point across and the journalist hopes they’ll get something more illuminating than the usual dead bat. Watch this stream.
Man Booker prize-shortlisted author, editor of the New York Times Style magazine T, travel writer: Hanya Yanagihara has distilled three of her greatest passions – books, art and travel – into her one-bedroom apartment in downtown Manhattan. The flat, housed in a steel-framed former bottle factory, has no dividing walls: instead, a vast, double-sided bookcase, containing more than 12,000 titles, acts “as a kind of suggestion of a wall”, Yanagihara says. On one side are her private quarters – bedroom, study, wardrobe and bathroom – on the other, a living room, kitchen and dining table. Floors are black, polished floorboards.
Every book is arranged alphabetically by author. “Anyone who arranges their books by colour doesn’t truly care what’s in the books,” she says. “I’ve always had them and collected them. I have multiple editions of certain titles so I can give them away. But I do try to do a big cull every few years.”
This applies to her substantial collection of photographs and paintings, which covers almost every inch of wall, and even the floor. “Anyone who buys art to match their sofa isn’t actually looking at the art; it’s disrespectful. The art comes first, and if you care for it, it’s your job to accommodate it.”
One wall, filled with a jumble of drawings, photographs, illustrations and paintings, is a glorious pink. “Pink is actually a superb neutral,” says Yanagihara. “There are certain bright colours – jadeite green, Majorelle blue, Paraiba tourmaline turquoise, hot pink – that have the unfair reputation of being difficult, but really, they’re so self-possessed and so singular that they’re able to accommodate almost anything you pair with them.” This includes several mid-century design classics, among them hot-pink Wishbone chairs by Hans Wegner, and a black leather Wassily lounge chair by Marcel Breuer.
Objects from Yanagihara’s frequent travels fill her home: a plaster bust of Ho Chi Minh from Saigon; iron opium weights from Laos and Burma; a solid silver cow from Mumbai; an old brass bell from Bhutan; a mirrored, embroidered pouch from Jaipur; an iron head from the Indonesian island of Flores; and a Japanese Showa-era bronze deer.
Yanagihara may love her apartment, but she doesn’t love New York. “I hate it, and more with each year,” she says. “The reason you stay here is for the thrill of constantly encountering people who are smarter and more interesting than you. But almost everything else about the city – the weather, the poor infrastructure, the overpriced and mediocre food scene, the subway system, the traffic, the idea that what you do is who you are – grates.” Her apartment, she says, is a refuge: “It offers me protection from the city. And it gives me the confidence to make mistakes. I always value a space that reflects who the owner thinks she is, not who she thinks she should be.”
Where in your home are you happiest? At my desk, writing.
What is your home’s greatest extravagance? The hinoki soaking tub. I think it’s the single most expensive piece of architecture in the apartment. It’s a highly mould-resistant cedar, and my architect also lined the walls of the bathroom with it, like a humidor. When the water in the bath is hot, the place is redolent of wood.
What is the most overrated real estate virtue? Sunlight (it damages the art).
Is your home covering up anything? It’s terrifically dusty.
What quality do you like most in a room? Idiosyncrasy and self-assurance. And I love a little vulgarity and kitsch.
If you could change one thing about your home, what would it be? I would’ve covered it with wallpaper by Josef Frank and Amrapali from Designers Guild.
What is your most treasured possession? Bass Strait, a print by Japanese photographer, Hiroshi Sugimoto.
Can you describe your home in one word? Inimitable.
What do you find beautiful? Anything in which you can see the artist’s hand or the artist’s mind.
Is your house a summer house or a winter house? Winter.
What’s one thing you wish everyone knew? That painting a space a rich colour makes any room appear immediately more intimate (and its owner immediately more interesting). That when you don’t have art, you can still hang interesting wallpaper.
What books do you want to read over again? The Untouchable by John Banville, The Remains Of The Day by Kazuo Ishiguro, and Seven Japanese Tales by Junichiro Tanizaki.
• It’s Beautiful Here, by Megan Morton and Brooke Holm, is published on 17 August by Thames & Hudson.
What kind of a play might Shakespeare have written if Lady Macbeth, rather than her husband, had been given the leading role? This is the premise of Kally Lloyd-Jones’s bold and haunting new work, in which she tries to imagine the full story of a woman so deprived of purpose, so hell-bent on vicarious power, that she will goad her husband to commit regicide and exorcise everything female and compassionate in herself.
The contradictions that Shakespeare sketched into Lady Macbeth’s character between her hard “masculine” ambition and her “feminine” conscience are elegantly fleshed out by Lloyd-Jones, who not only divides the role between three dancers but casts them with men.
During the opening scene, where Lady Macbeth calls on the spirits to unsex her, there’s a potent ambivalence in the men’s dancing. Their bodies move with a martial-arts fluency, but their hands flicker through a restless vocabulary of sign language, their gestures catching at the half-heard phrases of dialogue, the incantations of evil that echo through the music (a collage of classics, including Vivaldi, Verdi and Mozart).
From here, the work flashes back to a time when Lady Macbeth was briefly a mother. This is key to Lloyd-Jones’s concept, for the tenderness with which the dancers cradle their swaddled infants is transformed into rage when the “baby” dies, and the swaddling turns out to contain only stones. Anguish is the wellspring of Lady Macbeth’s violence, and by splintering her character into three Lloyd-Jones can show these emotions simultaneously: one man hollowed out with grief, another frantically rocking his empty arms, another hardening his body to a jagged readiness for revenge.
The violence that ensues is never literal – we don’t see the death of Duncan on stage – but soon there’s blood everywhere; raw meaty blood that is smeared over faces, hands and skirts, and that all too believably drives Lady Macbeth into convulsions of suicidal disgust.
If I have one criticism, it’s that anyone without a fair knowledge of Macbeth would miss the full richness and subtly of Lloyd-Jones’s response; the work could have befitted from a little more textual signposting. But it is beautifully made, excellently performed by its three uncredited dancers, and it creates a fascinating if desolate afterlife for one of Shakespeare’s most frustratingly underwritten antiheroines.
Meet Robert Lessing, a Victorian surgeon who is lustrous of hair, vast of ego and handy with a hacksaw. Robert can amputate a leg in 92 seconds, which is a good deal longer than it takes him to relieve a lady of her corsetry while off his tits on absinthe. He has performed more than a thousand procedures in front of rapt audiences who, in the age of God-fearing morality, can’t get enough of squirting pus and the sound of steel hitting bone.
Robert, played with virtuoso dickishness by Rory Kinnear, is one of the gaggle of medics strutting their surgical stuff in Quacks (15 August, 10pm, BBC2), a deliciously gruesome comedy-drama set in 1840s London. There’s also Tom Basden’s John, a dentist and fledgling anaesthetist with a fondness for liquid opium; psychiatrist William (The Wrong Mans’ Mathew Baynton) who eschews the beatings dispensed to mental patients in favour of a revolutionary new treatment known as “talking”; and Robert’s wife, Caroline (Lydia Leonard), a wannabe doctor wrestling with both the patriarchy and her own unruly libido.
Quacks is based on a period in the mid-19th century when huge strides were made in medicine and its pioneering young doctors were treated like rock stars. This week’s opener finds Robert operating on a humble haberdasher with a broken leg, while women furtively clutch their nether regions in the gallery and declare the spectacle “more fun than Madame Tussauds”. Speed is of the essence with amputations since the patients are unanaesthetised – and, really, there is only so much screaming an audience can endure. As the haberdasher flails in agony, Robert lops off his left bollock by accident. No matter: it’s all grist to the mill of surgical showmanship.
There is a hint of Horrible Histories in this series, rooted in historical accuracy and brilliantly milking it for lols. Created by James Wood, who co-wrote Rev, it depicts a society caught between centuries-old belief systems and a more liberal-minded modern age. Thus, dark personal dilemmas reside between the sight gags and smart one-liners. Robert kicks against the medical establishment but his progressive nature doesn’t extend to women: he is exasperated by his wife’s desire for a career and disgusted to find Florence Nightingale opening windows and cleaning instruments in his hospital. Meanwhile, William may be at the bleeding edge of neuroscience but his prudish streak means one touch of a lady’s hand and he’s fleeing the scene while hiding his boner behind his medical bag.
Rupert Everett’s Dr Hendrick, imperious president of the hospital and physician to the aristocracy, represents the old guard here. Rather than examine his female patients, he hands them a ceramic figurine in order that they may point to where it hurts. Visited by a lady with an obvious case of cystitis, he observes: “Clearly you’ve got this problem because you are a woman … You need to fast for a week, ride a horse for two hours a day, not Sundays, and place a freshly cooked baked potato on the infected area.”
Quacks is my kind of costume drama: one where bladder infections are treated with vegetables, man-baby medics get twatted on nitrous oxide and ether cocktails, and the jokes are so good they might just prove fatal.
For some 50 years or more I believed that a quick beginning of the next day’s work was essential. To make sure of this advantage I would write a paragraph the previous night and place it carefully next to my bed. When I got up next morning, there it was, still on the floor loyally waiting for me. Some special nights, when waking from a dream, I would see it as chance to make some subtle and necessary improvements to my original bedside text, turning drama into mysterious comedy. The reason was that I often woke from my dreams laughing – which was rather alarming for anyone near me.
Everything is slower now and my excuse is that I am less young – which is to say in my early 80s, so they tell me. My early bedtime paragraphs have gradually dwindled these days into a single sentence – and have now been reduced to a couple of words, if I can still find them under my bed.
My first two-volume publication, a biography of the biographer Lytton Strachey, was published in 1966-67. It was never top of the bestsellers, but for 50 years has never been out of print. Its early chapters were largely focussed on homosexuality which became almost, but not quite, legal during my two publication years. It had been a criminal offence while I was pursuing my research, and when I look back I am astonished how brave they were, those Bloomsbury Boys, particularly the artist Duncan Grant, a friend of Strachey and Maynard Keynes. What would happen when his and other private love affairs became public reading in my book? None of us knew, but after some painful dialectic everyone decided not to edit my text – and Grant generously drew a picture of Strachey free of charge for the cover.
The conviction of some readers was that I must be homosexual too, which I took as a compliment. There were several invitations to men-only supper parties. The fact is that I have chosen subjects that were very different from me – escaping from myself has been my aim as a writer.
I write in bed of course on a clip-board which by now is quietly battered. I am always at a place of work by day and night. Every year the same pattern of writing, every book very different.
Novelists use dreams to enrich their imaginations. They write, I'm told, whatever they please. Can this be true?
My next biography was about a notorious heterosexual artist, Augustus John – and my third subject someone who appeared to have no sexual life at all: Bernard Shaw. In fact I have learned more when writing books with male titles about the women in them: Dora Carrington, Ellen Terry and Ida John whose letters recently I co-edited.
I envy some novelists who are not imprisoned by facts, but use dreams and wishes to enrich their imaginations. They write, I am told, whatever they please. Can this be true? I know one novelist who has two final chapters in one of her books, one for American readers and the other for the British. I doubt if any biographer or historian could achieve that.
For my latest book I used a large Victorian volume that had lain in the attic of the family house where I lived during and after the second world war. I have been writing a story about the contents of this volume. I never saw it when I lived there but was given it by the people who bought the house after we left.
During her 20s, my great-grandmother made beautiful designs from ferns which she wove into the large pages of this book which her husband had given her on their wedding day. They lived in northeast India and the pages of ferns suggest her happiness at that time. But there was something unusual in the book: a series of empty pages interrupting the ferns and suggesting a pattern of positive and negative times. The empty pages eventually became signals of her death at the age of 30.
Many years later this large half-empty book was given to my aunt. She knew nothing of what it had signified and used it at the end of the first world war when she was in her late teens. She filled many empty pages with pictures of her favourite actors. They were the silent actors from the early 1920s. She had enjoyed cutting out some of their pictures from magazines – until she decided to be grown-up. Before the second world war, she had put her book away in the attic.
The ferns and the actors represent happy days for these two women and I have made then into twin family volumes with short introductions.
• Michael Holroyd’s Ancestors in the Attic is published by Pimpernel on 5 October.
Music None!Pen For computer crisesHours Often many, never noneDrinks One cup of tea, then two of coffee and by the end some wineWindow A loyal friend always behind my shoulder
Rory Kinnear, 39, is the son of actors Carmel Cryan and the late Roy Kinnear, who died in 1988 after falling from a horse on a film set. Raised in London, he was educated at Oxford University before joining the RSC. In 2014 he won an Olivier for his portrayal of Iago in Othello at the National Theatre. He plays Bill Tanner in the James Bond movies. His new BBC2 series, Quacks, starts this month. He has two children, Riley and Hope, with the actor Pandora Colin and lives in London.
Which living person do you most admire, and why?My mother. Any child of a single parent, if they are in a relationship when they become a parent, thinks, “How the hell did you do it alone?”
What is the trait you most deplore in others?Feelings of superiority, which I’m well aware makes me sound like I feel superior to those people.
What is your most treasured possession?On my first date with Pandora, we passed by some children holding a garage sale. I bought some kid’s Postman Pat wellies and I kept them, and both our children wore them. You could say I was keen.
What do you most dislike about your appearance?I realised early in life that I’d have to concentrate on personality, but I’ve realised how liberating that was.
Who would play you in the film of your life?Wayne Rooney, if he was available.
What did you want to be when you were growing up? A butcher.
What is the worst thing anyone’s said to you?“I love how unthreatening your body is.” It was an ex-girlfriend.
What does love feel like?Finding your place.
What do you owe your parents?A sense of humour, perspective, and determination. I feel like we all become our parents in some ways, whether or not they are still alive. I have plenty of memories of my father and I was able to, in some ways, continue my relationship with him by watching the stuff he made.
What is the worst job you’ve done?It’s a toss-up between organising a new filing system at Hammersmith & Fulham social services and relying on tips in the least popular restaurant in London to get through drama school.
What has been your biggest disappointment?Finding cucumber in things is a continual disappointment.
When did you last cry, and why?Last week I saw a moorhen feeding her chicks, and became overwhelmed by the miracle of parenthood and maternal sacrifice. And I hadn’t even been drinking.
How do you relax?See the end of the previous answer.
What is the closest you’ve come to death?I inadvertently rubbed the milky residue of a toxic cactus plant into my eye while filming Women In Love in the desert in Namibia, and my body went into anaphylactic shock as the producer sped me to a clinic 50 miles away.
What song would you like played at your funeral?That will depend on when and how I die, but you couldn’t beat The Birdie Song to set the right tone.
How would you like to be remembered?As the father of Celtic’s all-time top goalscorer (that’s either of my kids).
Where would you most like to be right now?Anticipating a lovely long walk somewhere new.
Soon after its first performance, Berlioz conducted part of La damnation de Faust at the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane. The critic of the Observer, reviewing the concert on 13 February 1848, wasn’t sure what to make of it, or of Berlioz’s music in general, still a novelty in London and rather baffling. After much hedging, and some sideswipes at the French for their fickleness and frivolity, he finally reached his point.
Here was a striking composer of unparalleled descriptive powers and grandeur second only to Beethoven, and a degree of obscurity “the depth of which it was impossible to penetrate”. The critic praised the extracts from Faust – a masterpiece that is neither opera nor cantata but (Berlioz’s description) a dramatic legend based on Goethe – for their invention and fantasy. But the vocal solos disappointed: feeble, inadequate, drowned out by the orchestra.
If only my long-ago predecessor could have heard Tuesday night’s Prom, played by the Orchestre Révolutionnaire et Romantique on instruments close to those of Berlioz’s day, and with the main roles sung by the faultless, never feeble trio of Michael Spyres (Faust), Ann Hallenberg (Marguerite) and Laurent Naouri (Mephistopheles). They were aided by a lively, sardonic Ashley Riches (Brander) and the seraphic Emma Lewis from the Monteverdi Choir which, with the National Youth Choir of Scotland and Trinity Boys Choir, supplied the strong, tightly-drilled and versatile chorus under the baton of John Eliot Gardiner.
The shape-shifting chorus of drunks, damned souls and demons lived every mood and moment
Gardiner’s passion for Berlioz is as deep-rooted as his dedication to Bach, or to Monteverdi (whose trilogy of operas he is performing in Edinburgh next week, and which will be reviewed here shortly). For some four decades, Gardiner has applied the same eagle-eyed scrutiny to Berlioz as to those other composers with whom he is more readily associated, scouring autograph manuscripts and reminding us of works forgotten or misunderstood.
His own discoveries in performance have coincided with a wholesale reassessment of this brilliant, one-off French Romantic composer, spearheaded particularly by two British musicologists. The 26-volume New Berlioz Edition, issued between 1967 and 2006, masterminded chiefly by Hugh Macdonald, and the two-part biography by David Cairns (who wrote last week’s predictably enlightening Proms programme note), are now part of the musical landscape. Others will, and should, mention other practitioners such as Roger Norrington or Colin Davis. Enough history, but a reminder of how re-evaluations are usually the result of powerful individual advocacy.
All of which is to say that Prom 31 was a terrific performance, proving that despite some successful stagings, this is a work that flies highest in the concert hall. Our imaginations furnish, design and direct the action. Above all, we are free to concentrate on the exquisite and often outlandish orchestration. The work’s absolute oddness proclaims itself from the hushed start. What other epic opens with such subtle exposure, violas marked “sweet and expressive” and playing alone, almost apologetically, before the melancholy Faust joins in, equally self-effacing?
Several orchestral set pieces splinter the action, such as the grandiose Hungarian March, the manic, skittish fugue after Brander’s gruesome Song of the Rat, or the Minuet of the Will-o’-the-Wisps, a swirl of febrile instability beneath its veneer of stately order. The ORR excelled in every detail, as they did, too, in accompanying each aria or chorus – four harps rippling ethereally, ophicleides chortling maniacally, trumpets, drums and off-stage horns blasting infernally and mysteriously, flutes and piccolos shrieking like wild cats. Special praise for Michael Niesemann’s tender cor anglais lament, accompanying Marguerite’s D’amour l’ardente flamme (The Burning Flame of Love). The shape-shifting chorus of soldiers, peasants, drunks, damned souls and demons lived every mood and moment.
The American tenor Michael Spyres, who reckons he has sung Faust more than anyone alive, has limitless grace and vocal purity. He soars easily to a high C sharp as if on wings, but there’s no showy heroism in these high notes, often sung pianissimo. He had an ideal match in the peerless, shining-voiced Swedish mezzo Ann Hallenberg. It was her debut in the role. All the soloists sang from memory. Spyres and Naouri are back in La damnation de Faust with Mark Elder in Edinburgh next Sunday. Simon Rattle conducts it at the Barbican in September with an equally promising but different cast.
On Wednesday (Prom 32), more muscular choral work was on show – from the sterling BBC National Chorus of Wales conducted by Ryan Wigglesworth, in the Proms premiere of Britten’s youthful Ballad of Heroes, Op 14, a setting of words by Randall Swingler and WH Auden. Presaging the composer’s Sinfonia da Requiem and War Requiem, this short cantata has the scale and ambition of neither, yet was intriguing to hear. You are left wanting more. Those later works provide it. Toby Spence (tenor) gave heart and clarity to Swingler’s raw words of hope, while the chorus rattled out Auden’s strict but precarious metres.
The centrepiece of this BBC NOW Prom, which also featured a fine account of Elgar’s Enigma Variations, full of pleasures and sharp detail if a little too broadly paced, was the world premiere of Brian Elias’s Cello Concerto. Replacing its dedicatee, Natalie Clein, at short notice, Leonard Elschenbroich was a wonderful, lyrical soloist. In this single-movement, four-section work, his first concerto, Elias spins a dazzlingly textured web out of the opening few bars. Choruses of cellos, percussion, woodwind alternate, discuss or challenge the solo cello, heard in all its voices, from slow, song-like elegy to rapid, chattering spiccato.
Two observations from this halfway point of the Proms. Even less obvious repertoire seems to attract near-capacity audiences. Sibelius’s Karelia Suite may be popular, but his Luonnotar, Op 70, part of the unusual Prom 33, is a rarity – beautifully played by the BBC Philharmonic (some stunning string playing) under John Storgårds, sung with powerful emotion by the dramatic soprano Lise Davidsen. And it’s hard to recall a year in which the BBC orchestras (and choruses) have sounded so good.
Star ratings (out of five):Prom 31 ★★★★★Prom 32 ★★★★Prom 33 ★★★★
• All Proms are available on BBC iPlayer. The BBC Proms continue until 9 September.
Gather the Daughters is set in the alternative reality of a misogynist dystopia. On an island just out of sight of “the Wastelands” (the mainland, or the rest of the world), the descendants of 10 families live in a closed community with no technology later than pen and paper, no money and some disturbing sexual practices.
The island is ruled by “the Wanderers”, a group of elite adult men who make regular trips to the Wastelands, returning with a small selection of useful commodities to eke out the produce of small-scale subsistence farming. Other men follow the kinds of trades one might find in a small medieval town: blacksmithing, weaving and carpentry (though the population is so limited that when the papermaker dies, the islanders simply run out of paper). The women stay at home, contriving what they can by way of food, clothing and cleanliness with limited resources. They divert themselves with gossip and attendance at each other’s childbirths, these being the only occasions on which they may gather without a male chaperone.
Everyone must marry, girls after the “summer of fruition” following their first periods, boys at the end of adolescence. Partly as a means of population control, after the births of two healthy children fathers are expected to have sex with their pre-pubescent daughters, although forbidden to do so with girls of reproductive age. “Defective” babies, whose numbers are increasing because of the small gene pool, are killed at birth.
Women who produce more than three “defectives” are dismissed to make way for second wives. After becoming grandparents, usually in their late 30s or early 40s, people “drink the last draught”, to free jobs and houses for the coming generations.
Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale has had many imitators, and nothing about Jennie Melamed’s setting is particularly inventive, but characterisation is strong and the focus on the leadership and strategic skills of pubescent girls is refreshing. The narrative moves between three girls and one woman, and each has a distinctive voice, character and family background developed in a way that makes her personality plausible and likable.
There is Vanessa, clever daughter of a Wanderer father who allows her access to the large library he has brought from the Wastelands; Caitlin, whose drunkard father beats her and her mother so much that even the islanders disapprove; Janey, resisting puberty and forced marriage through self-starvation, which has postponed her menarche past her 17th birthday; and a supporting cast of young female friends and followers.
The island’s children, harshly disciplined into unvarying routine for the rest of the year, are allowed to run free and live wild all summer, and one year, under Janey’s leadership, the wildness persists underground and fuels a rebellion that threatens the island’s social order and pushes the Wanderers into increasing brutality.
Narrative tension builds as skilful characterisation fills the reader with growing concern for the central voices. The discomforts of low-tech life on a small island that is icy in winter and infested by mosquitoes in summer are convincingly portrayed, and the world built from the detail of coarse, worn-out clothes and beautifully made domestic interiors is believable.
There is a tendency towards distractingly overblown descriptions of landscape and people: Janey notices the “dulcet, garnet gleam in each strand” of her sister’s hair, while “the sky arcs gracefully above them in washes of blue, the dense, pillowy clouds pearlescent and peach-toned along their bulging bellies …”.
Melamed manages scenes of sexual abuse and beatings without prurience, sharing with the reader the strong coping strategies of girls who never conceive of themselves as victims, and also insists that even in a society where all men are rapists, very few are without love and care for the women closest to them.
This is not an unusual novel, but it is a strong example of its kind. And an account of what happens to the rising generation when islanders decide to cut themselves off from the neighbouring mainland to pursue a fantasy of conservatism may be of particular interest to British readers this summer.
• Sarah Moss’s latest novel is The Tidal Zone (Granta).
Gather the Daughters is published by Tinder. To order a copy for £16.14 (RRP £18.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
In an average year, Maggie O’Farrell comes close to death several times. Seized with terror, she dials 999 and is rushed to hospital in a white-knuckle dash that navigates the border of life and death. Breathing becomes impossible, the skin bubbles and blisters; as consciousness fades, cardiac arrest can be just minutes away. The death O’Farrell must come this close to, over and again, is not her own but her daughter’s.
O’Farrell’s middle child is eight years old. Ever since the age of two, she has suffered extreme allergic reactions between 12 and 15 times a year, which can be triggered by – and this list is far from exhaustive – sitting beside someone who ate muesli for breakfast, or at a table where sesame seeds were recently consumed; sharing a paddling pool with someone wearing sun cream containing almond oil; touching the hand of someone who has eaten nuts or eggs or salad with pumpkin oil; eating a biscuit picked up with tongs used earlier to hold a brownie; being stung by a bee.
At just six, O’Farrell’s eldest child had to be taught how to dial 999 and say, “This is an emergency case of anaphylaxis”, if his sister went into shock. The local A&E staff greet her by name; her consultant has advised her parents never to take her beyond range of a good hospital. They never, ever leave the house without her medication.
“We live, then,” O’Farrell writes, “in a state of high alert.”
The novelist had not intended to write a memoir. She used to joke with her husband, the writer William Sutcliffe, that she was as likely to become a mathematician as to write about her private life. “I never, ever thought I’d do it. It just felt to me it would put too much of a tax on friends and family” she tells me when we meet in a London club. O’Farrell began writing I Am, I Am, I Am (the title is taken from Sylvia Plath’s The Bell Jar) as “a private project”, and even after signing a contract with her publishers, still thought she might lose her nerve and want to pull out of the deal.
She refused to accept an advance, because “I didn’t want the pressure of having to pay it all back if I changed my mind. It felt more liberating to me to write it without any expectation.” The publishers pointed out that they had to pay her something to make the contract legal, so she settled for a pound.
Were there moments when she seriously considered cancelling? “Yes, constantly,” she laughs. “Several times a day. I wasn’t even really sure right up until a couple of months ago that I would publish it.”
At eight, O’Farrell contracted encephalitis and was hospitalised in isolation for months. Everyone expected her to die
The book exists, ultimately, for one reason only: O’Farrell wanted to help her children understand that her daughter’s proximity to mortality is not their unique curse, but in fact surprisingly common. She realised she could come up with 17 of her own close encounters with death, and I Am, I Am, I Am is an account of all these occasions in her 45 years, when, as her own mother put it, “I don’t like to think what might have happened.” The memoir is a literary exercise in normalising the near-death experience.
The 17 range from a chilling near-miss encounter in her teens with a murderer to an ambush by a machete-wielding thief on a remote beach in Chile. She almost drowned twice, haemorrhaged catastrophically during her first labour and nearly died of amoebic dysentery in China. Other chapters are less dramatic – an HIV test following the discovery of her boyfriend’s infidelity; a close brush with a passing lorry while out walking – but all are crafted with O’Farrell’s trademark economy and control. She is a breathtakingly good writer, and brings all her elegance and poise as a novelist to the story of her own life.
The self-portrait revealed in its pages, though, is rather severe, and nothing like the person I meet today. More than 20 years ago, O’Farrell and I worked in the same office, and although we didn’t really know each other, I wouldn’t have recognised from her memoir the cheerful presence I recall from those days. “Contrary” and prone to tantrums as a child, O’Farrell’s account of her adult self is often similarly dissatisfied and prickly. Yet in person she is nothing like that at all. She is warm and easy, quick to laugh, full of good humour and generosity. The discrepancy is so striking, I suggest she’s been rather unfair on herself in the book.
“Really? Hmmm. Maybe,” she concedes. “I think I am quite hard on myself, but I think you have to be. I mean, we all are, aren’t we?”
The mystery of how one’s own mind compares with others’ has always particularly deep for O’Farrell, because at eight she contracted encephalitis and was hospitalised in isolation for months. Everyone expected her to die; one night, she even overheard a nurse outside her door tell another patient, “Hush. There’s a little girl dying in there.”
The damage to her cerebellum has left her with lifelong physical impairments, but the neurological legacy can also include traits such as irritability, oversensitivity and, she writes, “a profound sense of unease and dissatisfaction”. Does she feel that her personality has been determined by the disease?
“That’s what’s odd. I can’t tell. Maybe it’s a bit like having a pin in a broken bone. Your body grows around it and it becomes part of you, doesn’t it? Your personality absorbs it. I don’t know where the encephalitis ends and I begin, and which is which.”
She can never be sure, either, if it’s what made her a novelist. From the earliest age, she wrote compulsively, “but I think my illness probably, yes, made me into an observer, an interpreter of what was going on around, the unspoken. It also made me into a reader.” Confined to bed, she read classic novels over and over. “And the eighth or ninth time, you start to think: why did the author change tense here? Or why does this book start with a conversation, instead of a description? You start thinking in those terms.”
Born in Ulster to Irish parents, O’Farrell grew up with her two sisters in Wales and Scotland, where her father lectured in economics. Always academic, she studied English at Cambridge, and had planned to do a doctorate – but her results weren’t good enough. She began her career as an arts journalist. She published her first novel, After You’d Gone, in 2000, and following her second, My Lover’s Lover, two years later became a full-time novelist. She has since published five more, one of which, The Hand That First Held Mine, won the Costa book award, and all of which have been critically acclaimed hits. Spare and unsentimental, yet hauntingly vivid and suspenseful, her work deals with love, loss and all the timeless complexities of the human condition.
“I absolutely love writing,” she says. “It’s the only thing I ever really wanted to do. I never understand when I hear writers saying it’s agony. I always think, well, don’t do it then! Do something else. Go work in the coalmine. Go be a barista – see how you enjoy that,” she chuckles dryly.
I never understand when I hear writers saying it’s agony. I always think, well, don’t do it then! Go be a barista
I tell her I found the memoir quite confronting. I’ve always been impatient with the “what if?” sentiment. Some of her experiences’ claims to be “near-death” felt a little tenuous. It’s only in the very final chapters, when she reveals the full trauma and legacy of her childhood encephalitis and the unimaginable horror of her daughter’s condition, that her motivation for stretching the definition of near-death to include so many instances becomes clear. It wasn’t melodrama but compassion – the urge to comfort and reassure her daughter that she is not alone.
She agrees at once that to dramatise minor near misses can suggest, as she puts it, a slightly grandiose “Look at me” quality. “Yes, I was worried about that,” she nods. I’m curious to know why she didn’t begin the book with the final chapter about her daughter’s illness, to help the reader understand their context, but at this she looks surprised. Her sensibility is entirely literary, and so to her the answer is obvious: it is the dramatic reveal of a novel. “I just approached it as a novelist, and the structure of it is how a novelist will write.”
How O’Farrell has managed to remain such a successful author since her second child was born is a total mystery to me (her oldest, a boy, is now 13, and she has another daughter, aged five). Those life-threatening allergies have been compounded by eczema so severe that for the first five years of her life, “she was literally covered. Every single crease and hair was encrusted in blood. Her earlobes actually detached from her cheek several times, and her skin used to get infected, so she’d have abscesses on her legs, sepsis. She didn’t sleep. I mean, she really didn’t sleep. On a good night, she was up three or four times. On a bad night, she would be up seven, eight, nine, 10, 11 times. I mean, there were nights when at 2am we put her in the bath, and we would still be there at 6am. I have never, ever known anything like it, ever.”
O’Farrell has written about what happened next for the Guardian: in desperation, and equipped with nothing more than O-level chemistry and Google, she invented a homemade emollient that her daughter applies four times a day. But unlike every pharmaceutical cream she was ever prescribed, which had to be applied 16 times a day and didn’t work, O’Farrell’s potion has transformed – possibly even saved – her daughter’s life. Without it, she would be unable to go to school; even with it, she must be hyper-vigilant. “If she was sitting here now, the detergent used to clean these glasses we’re drinking from would have her itching. She couldn’t sit on this sofa because it’s woolly. But our home is a total detergent-free zone in every way – and we manage.”
In any fairy tale, getting what you wish for comes at a cost
O’Farrell has made sense of her daughter’s condition through the prism of a fairy tale, because her birth felt like a miracle. For years following the birth of her son, O’Farrell struggled to conceive; after a series of soul-destroying miscarriages, she resorted to IVF, only to be told it had failed. Three months later, when still no period had come, O’Farrell discovered she was in fact pregnant.
“In any fairy tale,” she writes, “getting what you wish for comes at a cost,” and her daughter’s eczema and allergies evoke for O’Farrell the cruelty of an old folk tale. “I think these tales appeal to our most visceral need for narrative, as a way to explain different things. It did feel magic in a strange, wonderful, weird, mystical happening for her to suddenly appear after being told I wasn’t pregnant. And then it felt like, ‘You can have this – but on the other hand there’s a price.’”
O’Farrell’s fortitude and equanimity seem equally miraculous to me. She would have every reason to be more like the put-upon, faintly aggrieved protagonist of her memoir than the resolutely cheerful optimist I meet. If I had to deal with what she must negotiate every day, I would be seething.
“We were coming back from holiday on Sunday, and I do find travelling on an aeroplane stressful, because she’s in an enclosed space. Airlines are generally very good, and they sent out the announcement [asking passengers not to eat nuts]. Then I look and a woman across the aisle has got out a huge pack of peanuts. I said to her, ‘It’s my daughter. Your peanuts could kill her.’ But she was still angry and cross and bristling.” Another time, a mother at her daughter’s school insisted it was her “son’s human right” to bring in peanut butter sandwiches for his packed lunch. “They think I’m being neurotic, I’m being precious, I’m being oversensitive. But I have to be determined not to get upset, and mostly people are fantastic.”
O’Farrell’s apprehension about making her private dramas public is palpable in the tension behind her smile. “It does feel very different from publishing a novel,” she agrees, “and I am quite nervous about it. It’s funny. A friend said recently, ‘You’ve basically revealed all the secrets you’ve spent your whole life hiding.’ But I did it for my daughter. I was tired of the silence, I think.”
On the path ahead, stepping out from behind a boulder, a man appears.
We are, he and I, on the far side of a dark tarn that lies hidden in the bowl-curved summit of this mountain. The sky is a milky blue; no vegetation grows this far up, so it is just me and him, the stones and the still black water. He straddles the narrow track with both booted feet and he smiles.
I realise several things. That I passed him earlier, farther down the glen. We greeted each other, in the amiable yet brief manner of those on a country walk. That, on this remote stretch of path, there is no one near enough to hear me call. That he has been waiting for me: he has planned this whole thing, and I have walked into his trap.
I see all this, in an instant.
This day – a day on which I nearly die – began early for me, just after dawn, my alarm clock leaping into a rattling dance beside the bed. I have just turned 18 and I have pulled off an escape. From everything: home, school, parents, exams, the waiting for results. I have found a job, far away from everyone I know, in what is advertised as a “holistic, alternative retreat” at the base of a mountain (exactly where remains a secret I keep to this day). I serve breakfast, I wipe tables, I remind guests to leave their keys. I go into the rooms, I make the beds, I change the sheets, I tidy.
All morning, I sift and organise and ease the lives of others. Then, around lunchtime, if I’m lucky, I have four hours before the evening shift to do whatever I want.
So I have walked up to the lake, as I often do during my time off, and today, for some reason, I have decided to take the path right around to the other side. Why? I forget. Maybe I finished my tasks earlier that day, maybe the guests had been less untidy than usual and I’d got out of the guesthouse before time. Maybe the clear, sun-bright weather has lured me from my usual path.
I have no reason, at this point in my life, to distrust the countryside. I have been to self-defence lessons, held at the community centre in the small Scottish seaside town where I spent my teens. The teacher, a barrel-shaped man in a judo suit, would put scenarios to us with startling Gothic relish. Late at night and you’re coming out of a pub, he would say, eyeing us one by one from beneath his excessively sprouting eyebrows, and a huge bloke lunges out from an alleyway and grabs you. Or: you’re in a narrow corridor in a nightclub and some drunk shoves you up against a wall. Or: it’s dark, it’s foggy, you’re waiting at traffic lights and someone seizes your bag strap and pushes you to the ground. These narratives of peril always ended with the same question: so, what do you do?
We practised reversing our elbows into the throats of our imaginary assailants, rolling our eyes as we did so because we were, after all, teenage girls. We took it in turns to rehearse the loudest shout we could. We repeated, dutifully, dully, the weak points in a male body: eye, nose, throat, groin, knee. We believed we had it covered, that we could take on the lurking stranger, the drunk assailant, the bag-snatching mugger. We were sure we’d be able to break their grip, bring up our knee, scratch at their eyes; we reckoned we could find an exit out of these alarming yet oddly thrilling synopses. We were taught to make noise, to attract attention, to yell, POLICE. We also, I think, imbibed a clear message. Alleyway, nightclub, pub, bus stop, traffic lights: the danger was urban. In the country, things like this did not happen.
And yet here is this man, high up a mountain, blocking my way, waiting for me.
'Did he hurt you?' the policeman asks. 'This man, did he touch you, hit you, proposition you?'
It seems important not to show my fear. So I keep walking, keep putting one foot in front of the other. If I turn and run, he could catch up with me in seconds and there would be something so exposing, so final about running. It would uncover to us both what this situation is; it would bring things to a head. The only option seems to be to carry on, to pretend that this is perfectly normal.
“Hello again,” he says to me, and his gaze slides over my face, my body, my bare, muddy legs.
I cannot meet his gaze, I cannot look at him directly, not quite, but I am aware of narrow-set eyes, a considerable height, fists gripping his rucksack straps.
I have to clear my throat to say, “Hi.” I turn myself sideways so as to step past him: a sharp mix of fresh sweat, leather from his rucksack, some kind of shaving oil that seems distantly familiar. I am past him, I am walking away, the path is open before me. He has, I note, chosen for his ambush the apex of the hike: I have climbed and climbed, and it is at this point that I will start to descend the mountain, to my guesthouse, to my evening shift, to work, to life.
I am careful to use strides that are confident, purposeful, but not frightened. Perhaps, I think, I am free, perhaps I have misread the situation.
I am 18. Just. I know almost nothing.
I do know, though, that he is right behind me. I can hear the tread of his boots, the swishing movement of his trouser fabric – some kind of breathable, all-weather affair.
And here he is again, falling into step beside me. He walks closely, intimately, his arm at my shoulder, the way a friend might, the way I walked home from school with classmates.
“Lovely day,” he says.
I keep my head bowed. “Yes,” I say, “it is.”
“Very hot. I might go for a swim.”
There is something peculiar about his diction, I realise, as we tread the path together. His words halt mid-syllable; his Rs are soft, his Ts over-enunciated, his tone flat, almost expressionless. Maybe he’s slightly “touched”, as the expression goes, like the man who used to live down the road from us. Maybe, I think, with a flood of relief, that’s all this means. This man might be like our old neighbour: eccentric, different. Perhaps I should be kind, as my mother was.
I turn to him then. I even smile.
“A swim,” I say. “That sounds nice.”
He answers by putting his binoculars strap around my neck.
A day or so later, I walk into the police station in the nearby town. I wait in line with people reporting lost wallets, stray dogs, scraped cars. The policeman at the desk listens, head cocked to the side. “Did he hurt you?” is his first question. “This man, did he touch you, hit you, proposition you? Did he do or say anything improper?”
“No,” I say, “not exactly, but…”
“But what?”
“He would have done,” I say. “He was going to.”
The man looks me up and down. I’m wearing patched cut-offs, numerous silver hoops through the cartilage of my ears, tattered sneakers, a T-shirt with a picture of a dodo and the words “Have you seen this bird?” on it. I have a mane – there isn’t really any other word to describe it – of wild hair into which a guest, a serene-faced Dutch woman who had travelled to the guesthouse with her harp and a felting kit, has woven beads and feathers. I look like what I am: a teenager who has been living alone for the first time, in a caravan, in a forest, in the middle of nowhere.
“So,” the policeman says, leaning heavily on his papers, “you went for a walk, you met a man, you walked with him, he was a bit peculiar, but then you got home OK. Is that what you’re telling me?”
“He put,” I say, “the strap of his binoculars around my neck.”
“And then what?”
“He…” I stop. I hate this man with his thick eyebrows, his beery paunch, his impatient, stubby fingers. “He showed me some ducks on the lake.”
The policeman doesn’t even try to hide his smile. “Right,” he says, and shuts his book with a snap. “Sounds terrifying.”
How should I have articulated to this policeman that I could sense the urge for violence radiating off the man, like heat off a stone? I have been over and over that moment at the desk in the police station, asking myself, was there anything I could have done differently, anything I might have said that would have changed what happened next?
I could have said: I want to see your supervisor. I would do this now, aged 45, but then? It didn’t occur to me it was possible.
I could have said: listen to me – that man didn’t hurt me, but he will hurt someone else. Please find him before he does.
I could have said that I have an instinct for the onset of violence, and when the man put the binoculars strap around my neck, even though he was saying something about wanting to show me a flock of eider ducks, I knew what came next. I could smell it. I could almost see it there, thickening and glittering in the air between us. This man was going to hurt me. He meant to inflict harm, rain it down on my head, and there was nothing I could do about it.
For a long time, I dreamed about the man on the path. He would appear in a variety of disguises
I decided I must play along with the birdwatching game. I knew that this was my only hope. You can’t confront a bully; you can’t call them out; you can’t let them know that you know, that you see them for what they are. I glanced through the binoculars for the length of a single heartbeat. Oh, I said, eider ducks, goodness, and I ducked down and away, out of the circle of that strap. He came after me, of course he did, with that length of black leather, intending to lasso me again, but by this time I was facing him, I was smiling at him, gabbling about eider ducks and how interesting they were, did eiderdowns used to be made of them, is that where the name came from, were they filled with eider duck feathers? They were? How fascinating. Tell me more, tell me everything you know about ducks, about birds, about birdwatching, goodness, how knowledgeable you are, you must go birdwatching a lot. You do? Tell me some more about it, about the most unusual bird you’ve ever seen, tell me while we walk because is that the time, I really must be going now, down the hill, because I have to start my shift, yes, I work just there – you see those chimneys? That’s the place. It’s quite close, isn’t it? There will be people waiting for me. Sometimes if I’m late, they’ll come out to look for me, yes, my boss, he’ll be waiting. He walks up here all the time, too, all the staff do, he knows I’m out here, he certainly does, he knows exactly where, I told him myself, he’ll be out looking for me any minute now, he’ll be just around that corner. Sure, we can walk this way, and while we do, why don’t you tell me some more about birdwatching, yes, please, I’d like that, but I really must rush because they are waiting.
Two weeks later, a police car drives up the winding track to the guesthouse and two people get out. I see them from an upper window, where I’m wrestling pillows into their cases. I know straight away what they are doing here, so even before I hear someone calling my name, I am walking down the stairs to meet them.
These two are nothing like the policeman at the station. They are in suits, their demeanours serious, focused. They proffer badges and documents to my boss, Vincent, with faces that are still with practised, skilled neutrality. They want to talk to me in private, so Vincent shows them into an unoccupied room. He comes in with us because he is a good man and I am only a few years older than his own children.
I sit on a bed I made that morning, and the policeman sits at an ornamental wicker table where some guests like to take morning tea; the policewoman seats herself next to me on the bed.
Vincent hovers in the background, muttering mistrustfully. He is a former flower child, a Haight-Ashbury survivor, and has a low opinion of what he calls “the fuzz”.
The police are interested, the woman tells me, in a man I encountered recently on a walk. Would I be able to tell them exactly what happened?
So I do. I start at the beginning, describing how I passed him early on the hike, how he headed off in the opposite direction, then somehow appeared ahead of me. “I don’t know how he did that,” I say, “because there isn’t a short cut, or not one that I know of.” They nod and nod, listening with a measured intensity, encouraging me to go on. Their eyes never leave my face: I have their absolute attention. When I get to the part about the binoculars strap, they stop nodding. They stare at me, both of them, their eyes unblinking. It is a strange, congested moment. I don’t think any of us breathes. “A binoculars strap?” the man asks.
“Yes,” I say.
“And he put it around your neck?”
I nod. They look away, look down; the woman makes a note of something in her book.
Would I be willing, she asks as she hands me a folder, to take a look at some photographs and let them know if I see him there?
At this point, my boss interrupts. He can’t not. “You don’t have to say anything, you know, you don’t. She doesn’t have to say anything.”
The policewoman is putting up her hand to silence him, just as I am placing my index finger on a photograph.
“That’s him,” I say.
The detectives look. The woman notes something again in her book. The man thanks me; he takes the folder.
“He killed someone,” I say to them, “didn’t he?”
They exchange an unreadable glance but say nothing. “He strangled someone. With his binoculars strap.” I look from one to the other and we know, we all know. “Didn’t he?”
From across the room, Vincent swears softly. Then he walks over and gives me his handkerchief. The girl who died was 22. She was from New Zealand and was backpacking around Europe with her boyfriend. He was unwell that day, so had stayed at their hostel while she went off on a hike, alone. She was raped, strangled, then buried in a shallow pit. Her body was discovered three days later, not far from the path where I had been walking.
I only know all this because I read about it in the local newspaper the following week: the police wouldn’t tell me. I saw a headline in a newsagent’s window, went in to buy a paper, and there was her face, looking out at me from the front page. She had light-coloured hair, held back in a band, a freckled face, a wide, guileless smile.
It wouldn’t be an exaggeration to say that I think about her, if not every day then most days. I am aware of her life, which was cut off, curtailed, snipped short, whereas mine, for whatever reason, was allowed to run on.
Death brushed past me on that path, so close that I could feel its touch
I never knew if they caught him, if he was convicted, sentenced, imprisoned. I had the distinct feeling, during the interview, that those detectives were on to him, that they had him, that they just needed my corroboration. Maybe the DNA samples were incontrovertible. Maybe he confessed. Maybe there were other witnesses, other victims, other near-misses, who gave evidence in court: I was never asked and was too green or, I suspect, too shocked to pursue the matter, to call the police and say, what happened, did you catch him, has he been put away?
I left the area not long afterwards, so can never be certain. All this happened long before a time of ubiquitous and instantly available news. I can find no sign, no trace of this crime on the internet, despite numerous searches.
I don’t know why he spared me but not her. Did she panic? Did she try to run? Did she scream?
For a long time, I dreamed about the man on the path. He would appear in a variety of disguises, but always with his rucksack and binoculars. Sometimes, in the murk and confusion of a dream, I would recognise him only by these accoutrements and I would think, oh, it’s you again, is it? You’ve come back? It is a story difficult to put into words, this. I never tell it, in fact, or never have before. I told no one at the time, not my friends, not my family: there seemed no way to translate what had happened into grammar and syntax. I have, now I think about it, only ever told one person, and that was the man I would eventually marry, and it only came out years after we met. I told him one evening in Chile, as we sat in the refectory of a travellers’ hostel. The expression on his face was one of such deep, visceral shock that I knew I would probably never tell it again, verbally, in my lifetime.
What happened to that girl, and what so nearly happened to me, is not something to be lightly articulated, moulded into anecdote, formed into a familiar spoken groove to be told and retold over a dinner table or on the telephone. It is instead a tale of horror, of evil, of our worst imaginings. It is a story to be kept battened down in some wordless, unvisited dark place. Death brushed past me on that path, so close that I could feel its touch, but it seized that other girl and thrust her under.
My daughter recently pointed to the top of a hill, seen on our walk to school.
“Can we go up there?”
“Sure,” I said, glancing up at the green summit.
“Just you and me?”
I was silent for a moment. “We can all go,” I said. “The whole family.”
Alert as ever to the moods of others, she immediately caught the sense that I was holding something back. “Why not just you and me?”
Because, I was thinking, because I cannot begin to say. Because I cannot articulate what dangers lie around corners for you, around twisting paths, around boulders, in the tangles of forests. Because you are six years old. Because there are people out there who want to hurt you and you will never know why. Because I haven’t yet worked out how to explain these things to you. But I will.
• This is an edited extract from I Am, I Am, I Am: Seventeen Brushes With Death, by Maggie O’Farrell, published on 22 August by Tinder Press at £18.99. To order a copy for £14.99, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846.
• Commenting on this piece? If you would like your comment to be considered for inclusion on Weekend magazine’s letters page in print , please email weekend@theguardian.com, including your name and address (not for publication).
Some things are just too big. I don’t mean too big for their function, I mean for themselves: aesthetically, ideationally, abstractly, too big.
This thought occurred to me as I was waiting in traffic in Wardour Street, Soho, behind a truck that couldn’t squeeze between two other trucks parked on either side of the road. The driver leapt out – for he was a long way up – in order to fold back the wing mirrors of the other vehicles, and for some reason to check his tailgate. As he trudged back and clambered up, I could see from the weariness in his shoulders that he was thinking the same: too big. I don’t know what he was delivering. It doesn’t matter. Whatever his cargo – iceberg lettuces or grand pianos – as an object in its own right, the vehicle was an excrescence. Let me say it again: it wasn’t utility it offended against, it was nature.
As chance would have it, the person I was on my way to meet is also too big. A man who extends in all directions like a clothes hoist. He makes a comedy of his anomalousness by wearing shorts that are too long or too brief, trainers with little white schoolgirl’s socks, and polo shirts that don’t cover his navel. But you don’t have to be in his company long to see that he feels tragically about himself. Happy giants exist only in Disney.
I have a 104-year-old mother-in-law – it’s not for me to say that 104 is too big a number – who inveighs not just against the size of the plates on which her food is served in restaurants, but against the size of the meals themselves. I have tried to reason her out of this. “Look, I’ll make you more space on the table,” I say, pushing aside the condiments and the flower arrangements. “And just leave whatever it is you can’t eat.”
“But if I leave it, I can still see it,” she says.
I offer to transfer what she can’t eat to my plate – I’m known to be accommodating when it comes to eating what other people don’t want to – but that doesn’t satisfy her, either. That which she is left with was once part of something too big, and therefore the memory trace of something too big still inheres in it. Like rhino steak.
Now that I know how much the BBC pays its favourite functionaries, I understand the metaphysical soundness of my mother-in-law’s objections. Some things are so outlandish, they outrage not only morality, but the very principles of harmony that underpin the universe. Justify them how you will. Nature’s verdict must be the final one. Too big.
Alongside the supremely well-read Bob Dylan, David Bowie was probably popular music’s most bookish star. Christopher Isherwood was an obvious influence on his so-called Berlin period; George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four inspired much of his classic album Diamond Dogs. Judging by a much-circulated list of his favourite 100 books released in 2013, he was also a fan of such literary touchstones as William Faulkner, Albert Camus and F Scott Fitzgerald, as well as a range of modern works, from Martin Amis’s Money to the ribald British comic-cum-institution Viz.
It’s a little strange, then, that whereas good books about Dylan and the Beatles extend into the distance, the range of decent texts about Bowie remains relatively small. Such coffee table works as Mick Rock’s The Rise of David Bowie, 1972-1973 (Taschen, 2016) handsomely showcase the visual aspects of his legend; if you want a forensic guide to his songs, dramatic roles, videos and more, you should start with the pretty authoritative A-Z dossier, The Complete David Bowie by Nicholas Pegg (Titan), first published in 2000 and most recently updated after its subject’s death. But when it comes to in-depth career histories, there are not many to choose from.
Thankfully, one of the most high-profile biographies that appeared before Bowie’s death is very good indeed. If you’re after the definitive tale told with both a novelist’s sense of drama and a deep appreciation of the music, try Paul Trynka’s Starman (Sphere, 2010), written with the help of a huge array of interviewees. Among its many charms are its whip-smart use of endless anecdotes: witness everything from Trynka’s evocation of Bowie’s upbringing on the London/Kent borders (one friend remembers him being “always well-scrubbed, with clean fingernails”) to the recollections of the one-time Deep Purple bassist and singer Glenn Hughes, with whom Bowie shared some of an infamously coke-crazed period in Los Angeles, circa mid-1975.
“The enduring image of their time together is the two of them, sitting alongside each other, isolated,” writes Trynka. “Glenn obsessively working out riffs on the guitar, and David watching the same dark, disquieting movies, over and over, both lost in their own world.” Clearly, there is a certain sickened romance to such scenes, but Hughes is having none of it: “It was miserable,” he says. “It always is miserable.”
David Buckley’s Strange Fascination (Virgin, 1999, last updated in 2012) isn’t as exhaustively researched or as well written, and it tends to restrict its focus to the music – but in that sense, it capably shines light on Bowie’s ceaseless creativity. By way of showcasing the critical faculties at work, 1980’s “Ashes to Ashes” is nicely summed up as a work of “Edwardian queasiness, portraying a world of nostalgia, childhood reminscence and distant memories”, while the accompanying video is portrayed as the spectacle of Bowie summoning “archetypes that had pervaded his writing in the past decade, in order to kill them off and lay to rest the ghost of impersonation”. From the book’s title onwards, most of what Buckley writes is based on what evidently first drew him to his subject: the idea that “rock stars are meant to be weird, disquieting and discomfiting”.
Bowie’s Berlin period, which stretched between 1976 and 1978, was about a partial retreat from those demands, into what then passed for (relative) sobriety and calm. As against his time in LA, he claimed to have suddenly become “incredibly straight, level, assertive, moderate” – although his new companion Iggy Pop later claimed that their average seven days broke down into “two for bingeing, two for recovery and three more for any other activity”.
Whatever, his time in Germany and the music it sparked is explored in Thomas Jerome Seabrook’s Bowie in Berlin (Jawbone, 2008), a mixture of biography and song-by-song analysis that authoritatively nails its subject matter: a time, as the author puts it, of “bingeing and purging, relapse and recovery” – and some of the most visionary work of Bowie’s career.
As a portrait of what Bowie was in Germany to escape from, his first wife Angie’s memoir, the infamous Backstage Passes: Life on the Wild Side with David Bowie (Cooper Square, 1993), takes some beating. The kind of read that mixes tabloid-esque confessions with psychobabble, its tone is established from the off: “We went back to Paddington together,” she writes of one of the couple’s first encounters, “and what was going to happen started happening. I got fucked.” That said, she also makes this claim: “Sex wasn’t the mainspring between David and me. In our partnership the primary imperatives were creative expression, philosophical growth, and the achievement of our separate, mutual, and equally bright-burning ambitions.” He went on to shape pop culture in his image; she ended up in the Celebrity Big Brother house – where, in a grim twist of fate, she learned of her former husband’s death.
Less sleazy and often more enlightening accounts of Bowie by some of his closest collaborators are contained in David Bowie: The Pitt Report (Omnibus, 1983), a retelling of his pre-fame years by his first manager Kenneth Pitt, which is out of print but easily bought second-hand; and the autobiography of his producer and foil Tony Visconti, titled Bowie, Bolan and the Brooklyn Boy (Harper Collins, 2007). Both are full of great material – Visconti’s account of Bowie’s first meeting with John Lennon, for example, is a treat – but are inevitably lacking one aspect of Bowie’s life that is central to his whole story: the bond he formed with millions of his fans, and the way he catalysed their fantasies and ambitions in a way that no musician has since.
This is the basis of Paul Morley’s The Age of Bowie (Simon & Schuster, 2016), the 450-page book its author claims to have written in 10 weeks flat after its subject’s death. It is as idiosyncratic and knowingly pretentious as most of Morley’s writing, but also full of tributes that might be overblown, but speak powerful truths. One of the best captures the magic Bowie spread with his first bona fide classic album, 1971’s Hunky Dory, and might just as well apply to any of the most brilliant phases of his artistic progress. “He flooded everyday reality with exotic information, and made intellectual discovery seem incredibly glamorous and accessible,” writes Morley. “Those indifferent to his ways would probably have just seen grotesque sexualised pantomime, heard noisy, repetitive nursery rhymes, and a narcissistic, half-naked, fidgety, goofy, effeminate singer wearing hobgoblin hair [and] trying far too hard to impress. To those who got it, he was at ease exhibiting his mind and body in the public glare so fantastically, and if you had cracked the code, he was dramatically splitting reality wide open and penetrating time itself. The perfect role model for a teenager.”
• To browse from the books featured in this article, visit bookshop.theguardian.com/david-bowie or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
One of the first, and most important pieces of advice David Bowie ever gave me – this was in the early 1990s – was to make sure I noted down the names of secretaries and assistants I came into contact with. This would help me later, he explained, when I needed to get through to the important people.
Charm, as Albert Camus put it in The Fall, is a way of getting people to say yes before you’ve told them what you want. And Major Tom, or Captain Tom, as Frank Zappa insisted on calling him when Bowie tried to poach his guitarist, had already used his ample portion to get through to the important people. And to the assistants, secretaries and thousands of other women he slept with, sometimes in threesomes and at orgies in Oakley Street in Chelsea, where he lived with Angie Barnett in what was then cutely called “an open relationship”.
Bowie’s father, who knew a lot about music and was an early encourager – perhaps Bowie’s first fan – was head of PR at Dr Barnardo’s. In a sense, Bowie himself always worked in PR, realising early that the image was everything. Even as a teenager he learned to make both men and women adore him. By his early 20s, he had turned to men, sleeping with dancer and choreographer Lindsay Kemp and composer Lionel Bart, among others. A vivacious Kemp, interviewed by GQ editor Dylan Jones in David Bowie: A Life, says that Bowie “went out with most people”, including Kemp’s costume designer, much to Kemp’s chagrin, causing poor Kemp to attempt suicide by bicycling into the sea at Whitehaven in an effort to recreate scenes from both The 400 Blows and Bicycle Thieves simultaneously.
According to Mary Finnigan, another forever disappointed suitor – she wrote a delightful book, Psychedelic Suburbia, about her relationship with Bowie in Beckenham, just after he’d left home and had broken up with the splendidly named Hermione Farthingale – Bart swung down to the south London suburbs in his Roller and disappeared with Bowie on the back seat for the afternoon.
Bowie was an admirer of Joe Orton’s cheeky subversion. They both had something of the Artful Dodger about them; Bowie certainly wasn’t averse to putting it about when it came to getting ahead. He had much to put about. Feminine and extraordinary looking, with different coloured eyes, a swan neck, porcelain skin, good hips and a delicious penis, he had it all. I believe his penis was first detailed in print by his first manager Ken Pitt, whom Bowie left after “Space Oddity” became a hit, poetically describing “his long, weighty penis swaying from side to side like the pendulum of a grandfather clock”. Fans will be pleased that his member is often commented on in David Bowie and might want to think of Bowie as something from a drawing by Aubrey Beardsley, a thin man with a transcendental phallus.
It had been quite a ride. Bowie attended the same school as me, Bromley technical high school in Keston, but 10 years earlier. It is important to note what a shithole it was: bullying, violent, with incompetent teachers. Education, in those days, for working- and lower-middle-class children, was hardly considered essential or even necessary. We were being trained to be clerks for the civil service, like the dour eponymous hero of HG Wells’s Kipps, a rags-to-riches tale of self-improvement that we studied at school, since Wells was the one famous local artist apart from Richmal Crompton. (Crompton, like Siouxsie Sioux, lived in Chislehurst.) The more imaginative boys, or the ones who could draw, went into advertising, which Bowie did after school, working on a campaign for a slimming biscuit called Ayds.
The only decent adult at Bromley Tech was guitarist Peter Frampton’s dad, Owen, who let us use the art room at lunchtime to mess around in with guitars, while complaining about how much he hated Steve Marriott’s voice. His son had just joined Marriott’s band, Humble Pie.
It is instructive to recall how little was expected of us kids and how we were patronised. I remember a nouveau riche friend from “up London” walking into our house in Bromley and saying, to mum’s horror, “What a lovely little house you have!” British pop had always been lower middle class and came out of the art schools rather than universities, which is where all the other British culture – theatre, movies, the novel – came from. Pop was always more lively: the music-mad kids were rebellious, angry and ornery. They always had a chip on their shoulders when it came to class and education. Social disadvantage has always been essential to pop: the hilarious incongruity of kids brought up in small houses without central heating and eating Spam for tea suddenly finding themselves living in mansions after writing a song.
Despite Kemp’s efforts, Bowie was a terrible mime. But he was a great mimic and loved to do the voices of his contemporaries – Mick Jagger, Bryan Ferry – while pissing himself laughing. This matter of the voice is interesting: as with a lot of us, Bowie’s accent wobbled and never really settled. The accent known sneeringly as “mockney”, used by south Londoners such as Bowie and Jagger before they went American, would have been necessary as well as natural at the time for boys brought up among cockneys who’d moved to the suburbs after the East End had been bombed during the war. That accent, which I still do when I’m bad tempered, would have helped you fit in, saving you from being beaten up at school or on the street, since the locals weren’t keen on anyone who didn’t speak like them, or, God forbid, showed an interest in anything artistic. The community was always aspirational, but determinedly downwardly mobile when it came to culture. You wouldn’t have wanted the lads to see you in a dress.
Fortunately, Bowie’s schooling didn’t interfere with his education. Almost everyone remarks on Bowie’s everlasting curiosity, “self-improvement” and wide-ranging intelligence. After reading Robert Heinlein’s sci-fi epic Starman Jones (1953), and collecting from movies, poetry and the numerous artists he admired, he constructed himself and his many aliases from a range of sources, many of which are explored in Jones’s book. As his obvious precursor Oscar Wilde writes in The Picture of Dorian Gray: “Man was a being with myriad lives and myriad sensations, a complex multiform creature ...”
Bowie was more Don Juan than Dorian Gray, a woman’s fantasy rather than a narcissist. It is well known that he made himself up but much in him remained constant. Unlike Iggy Pop or Lou Reed or even his older half-brother Terry, he was born cheerful and was never truly nihilistic or even depressed. Like most of us, he worried that he might go mad, but he clearly never did, despite his best efforts. He was unembarrassable and could be blokey and laddish in the English manner, adoring jokes and TV: Larry Grayson, Peter Sellers, Pete and Dud, The Office.
Bowie wasn’t one to waste anything. Even his period of self-destructiveness yielded some of his finest work, which, like the Beatles’, was that incredibly difficult thing – both experimental and popular. He told me that cocaine almost killed him several times, his friends putting him in a warm bath just to keep his circulation moving. However, he was always concentrated and was never not serious about his career. Both otherworldly and extremely practical, when he had a new album he’d make the terrifying move of playing it to you, sitting opposite in a kimono with a pad and paper, ready to make notes, seeming to believe he could learn from you.
I met Bowie through a mutual friend and asked if we could use his songs on the sound track of the BBC adaptation of my first novel, The Buddha of Suburbia. He agreed, and said he also had ideas for some original music. When he was composing this, and I expressed fear that some of the music was either too fast or slow, I can’t remember which, he hurried back to his pad near Montreux in Switzerland, spending the night redoing everything. He’d never composed for film before: he wanted to make the score for The Man Who Fell to Earth but was too knackered after filming to get down to it.
The collage or dialogical method chosen for this book by Jones, collecting the voices of those who knew or worked with Bowie and running them together chronologically, works very well. Most notably used by Jean Stein and George Plimpton in Edie, their 1982 biography of Edie Sedgwick, it ensures the reader is not pinned down by the biographer’s point of view or prejudices. It is a pleasure to hear from everyone: lovers, managers, journalists, Croydon girl Kate Moss, musical figures such as Carlos Alomar, Earl Slick, Mike Garson and Tony Visconti.
A treat for enthusiasts, whose number seems to be increasing, Bowie bulges with essential and telling Spinal Tappish gossip. The time Jimmy Page spilled beer on Bowie’s silk cushion and blamed Ava Cherry; when a clearly envious Paul McCartney invited him over and then couldn’t bear to talk to him, but got Linda to instead. The time Bowie and John Lennon went on holiday to Hong Kong and were determined to try monkey brains. And when Bowie’s shows had intervals he’d sit in the dressing room watching Coronation Street on VHS.
More importantly, as a more-or-less single parent, he brought up his son, the film-maker Duncan Jones, impeccably, and it is amusing to think of him and Lennon talking together about being good fathers. Bowie always said that Keith Richards was less out of it than he liked others to believe, being an ace at Trivial Pursuit for instance, but the same was true of Bowie.
Some of these stories are as familiar as tales from the life of Jesus, but what is impressive about this biographical method are the accounts by then youngsters such as Nick Rhodes, Neil Tennant, Siouxsie Sioux and Dave Stewart suddenly seeing Bowie as Ziggy on Top of the Pops and understanding something about their lives and what they would go on to do in music. Bowie appealed to those who wanted to get out of Bromley or anywhere that resembled it – most of Britain in the 70s. His kids’ song “Kooks” really is wonderful; he was liberating, and did want to “let the children boogie”.
Bowie and Iman came to visit Sachin and Carlo, our twin sons, when they were born, bringing gifts. That night Paul McKenna, who was a pal, tried to hypnotise Bowie into quitting smoking. He clearly didn’t want to be hypnotised and didn’t want to quit, but he pretended for Paul. Afterwards, I remember him standing on the steps of my house, begging me to get him some fags. “Can’t we go together,” I suggested. “But I can’t go anywhere,” he said, gesturing at Shepherd’s Bush.
Being flattered and fawned over your whole life isn’t necessarily all it’s cracked up to be, and, in his last years in New York, he gave up pleasure for happiness. It seemed he returned to the blessedly ordinary satisfactions of being a good parent and husband. Not that someone like him could give up being an artist; unlike most pop stars, his last albums were a development. If, inevitably, this story is sad at the end – Bowie never seemed the sort of person to die on you – it is inspiring to hear what to meant to so many people.
He always sent a birthday card, which, characteristically, he made himself. He was our starman and he knew it. He did it for us, always prepared to be the hero we wanted, a real star, not a musician in jeans and a T-shirt with dirty hair, but of a glorious glowing beauty like Jean Harlow, Marlon Brando or Joan Crawford, someone who lived it all the time, and who was never bored or ordinary for one moment.
There will, of course, be many Bowie books in the future. But, for the time being, it’s all here. And anyone, anywhere, who has ever listened to pop and danced in their bedroom, will have listened to him and always will.
• David Bowie: A Life by Dylan Jones is published by Preface (£20). To order a copy for £17, go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min. p&p of £1.99.
Everyone talks about Syrians, but very few actually talk to them. Perhaps that’s why Syria’s revolution and war have been so badly misunderstood in the west – variously as a US-led regime-change plot, an ancient Sunni-Shia conflict or a struggle between secularism and jihadism.
We Crossed a Bridge and It Trembled bucks the trend. Here the story is told entirely through the mouths of Wendy Pearlman’s Syrian interviewees, hundreds of them, from all social backgrounds, Christians and Muslims, Ismailis and Druze, rural and urban, middle class and poor. These best of all possible informants – the people who made the events, and who suffer the consequences – provide not only gripping eyewitness accounts but erudite analysis and sober reflection.
The introduction, alongside a concise overview of developments from 1970 to the present, describes Pearlman’s method. She interviewed refugees (who are therefore overwhelmingly anti-regime) in locations ranging from Jordan to Germany. And she interviewed them in Arabic, enabling “a connection that would have been impossible had I relied on an interpreter”. The result is testament both to Syrian expressive powers and the translation’s high literary standard.
These heart-stopping tales of torment and triumph are perfectly enchained, chronologically and thematically, to reflect the course of the crisis. They begin with life under Bashar al-Assad’s regime, “not a government but a mafia”, when children were trained to lie for their family’s security. “It was a state of terror,” says Ilyas, a dentist. “Every citizen was terrified. The regime was also terrified.”
Assad inherited power from his father in 2000. His crony-capitalist “reforms” meant “the poor got poorer and people got angrier, day after day”. Interviewees recount the 2004 Kurdish uprising and smaller, isolated acts of resistance.
In 2011, against the background of the Arab spring, decades of frustration exploded. According to Cherin, a mother from Aleppo who speaks like a grassroots poet: “You have an inheritance, and after 30 years you slam it on the ground and shatter it.” State repression only intensified the fury. “The government sent dead to every village,” says Abu Thair, an engineer from Daraa. “The funerals began. And imagine, each funeral becomes a demonstration.”
The early revolution was marked by cross-sect cooperation, a new sympathy for distant regions and a reinvigorated sense of nationality. “You are my people,” enthuses Waddah from Latakia. “You are extraordinary.” Revolutionaries set up coordination committees to organise and record protests, to try to provide security, then to build makeshift field hospitals (the injured arriving at state hospitals were often murdered). Later, people elected local councils to administer liberated areas – the first experience of democracy in more than 40 years, remarkably under-reported, and an evidential rebuke to those who believe Arabs are culturally unsuited to ruling themselves.
In response, the regime practised rape and torture. It delivered tens of thousands of peaceful activists into prisons that serve as extermination camps, and simultaneously released jihadists. Ayham, a web developer, complains: “The regime puts all the movement leaders in prison, and then says the movement has no leaders.”
Curfews were followed by sieges, gunfire and warplanes. The revolution’s militarisation was inevitable, even necessary, but it inevitably brought down a host of curses, from banditry to warlordism. “We need somebody to do the wrong thing in order for future generations to have a life that is morally stable and functioning,” Adam, a media organiser, says, before admitting: “We opened Pandora’s box.”
Pearlman hears rebel fighters talking of their motivations (houses burnt, relatives abducted) and civilians recounting experiences of bombing, massacres and chemical attacks. Assad deliberately provoked sectarian breakdown; foreign interventions fanned the flames. Global jihadist groups arrived as parasites on the chaos, and some Syrians joined them, because, in one informant’s words: “You are in dire need for a narrative that can justify this futility.” A fighter explains the generalised rage thus: “No country in the world is paying attention to me. Not a single one is doing anything to protect any fraction of the rights I should have as a human on this earth.”
Now revolutionaries resist the new authoritarians alongside the old. Khalil, a defected army officer, articulates a common sentiment: “We won’t accept another dictator to take [Assad’s] place.”
High ideals coexist with grim reality. More than half the population have been driven from their homes, and families have splintered. Pearlman hears of the poverty, disease and humiliation of exile. She talks to a woman who kissed the walls of her neighbourhood before she fled, and a mother who made terrible journeys through Europe, ending with her determined journey to Berlin.
There is certainly hope. Throughout this book, Syrian irrepressibility and resilience are set against the logic of self-immolation and nihilism of “Assad or we burn the country”. It is a book that sheds necessary light and confounds misapprehensions, not least in that it reveals the roles of revolutionary women, usually invisible to the outside.
A reader wishing for a fuller political and cultural background will consult other works too, but this one contains all the human context necessary, and in the people’s own voices. Syrians, Pearlman writes, are too often cast as “victims to be pitied, bodies to be sheltered, radicals to be denounced or threats to be feared ... it can be difficult to find chances to listen to actual Syrians as human beings”. But she has listened.
• We Crossed a Bridge and It Trembled: Voices from Syria is published by Custom House. To order a copy for £16.14 (RRP £18.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
‘This was the most important era in standup comedy; this is when it all changed,” says Michael Aguilar, executive producer of Sky Atlantic’s high-profile new US import, I’m Dying Up Here. “This is when comedy went from setup-punchline jokes to storytelling, to therapy, to creating characters.” The era was the early 1970s, and the standup scene was Los Angeles, where the careers of many soon-to-be comedy superstars, including Richard Pryor, Steve Martin, David Letterman and Robin Williams, were just being launched. “In 1973, when Johnny Carson moved The Tonight Show from New York to LA, that became the scene,” continues Aguilar. “It moved from the east coast to the west coast, and these guys were suddenly the kings of the Sunset Strip.”
Which is not to say that those making their first forays on to the spotlit stage enjoyed overnight success. Certain of the struggles portrayed in the comedy-drama series come straight from the annals of producer Jim Carrey, who optioned William Knoedelseder’s 2010 bestselling book on the period – also called I’m Dying Up Here – on which the show is based. “I lived in a closet when I first came to LA,” he confessed at a Television Critics Association panel earlier this year. “I met somebody at the Improv [a renowned comedy club] who said they had a room, but it turned out to be a closet.” Aguilar later tells me that while living in said closet, Carrey was also dating the singer Linda Ronstadt. “I am pretty sure he went to her place,” he quips.
Such dimly lit, booze-fuelled, late-night depictions of the comedy club world and curious lives of standup comedians would appear to be having a moment. HBO’s Crashing, the semi-autobiographical story of its creator and star Pete Holmes’s early days on the circuit is currently filming its second season in New York, where Amy Sherman-Palladino, creator of The Gilmore Girls, is also knee-deep in production on her new series for Amazon, The Marvelous Mrs Maisel, the tale of a housewife and would-be standup in the 1950s. The Big Sick, standup comic Kumail Nanjiani’s real-life tale of how he met his wife, is still doing good business in cinemas. And Funny Cow, starring Maxine Peake as a comedian on the northern working-men’s club circuit of the 1970s – which, by comparison, makes living in a closet in LA seem impossibly glamorous – is set for release later this year.
I’m Dying Up Here stars Melissa Leo as Goldie Herschlag, the fierce matriarch of the fictitious Goldie’s, the club in which aspiring comedians, including Bill Hobbs (Andrew Santino), Eddie Zeidel (Michael Angarano) and Cassie Feder (Ari Graynor) vie for coveted spots; Goldie herself is closely based on the famed Mitzi Shore, who founded Los Angeles club The Comedy Store in 1972. “They really captured the feeling of the era, the feeling of the camaraderie and the competition, and the smartass quality of being a comic,” said Carrey of the show. “Oftentimes it wasn’t who was funniest on stage; it was who was funniest at the bar or who was funniest in the parking lot. That’s what mattered to comics.”
This authentic transposition of club to screen stands in stark contrast to the apparent problem in capturing another creative industry – the music business – and turning it into successful television drama. The series Empire and Nashville stand out as notable recent exceptions, but HBO’s big-budget period piece, Vinyl, set in the record industry of 1970s New York City, was canned after one season, in spite of a creative team that included heavyweights Mick Jagger and Martin Scorsese. Showtime’s comedy-drama Roadies, about the backstage world of touring bands, also lasted just one season. The Get Down – Baz Luhrmann’s ambitious Netflix show tracing the birth of hip-hop, also in 70s New York, and notable for costing a reported $120m for its first season – has recently been cancelled, too.
“The world of standup comedy, and the world of being a musician in a band both fascinate people – because it is nightlife, and travelling, and there’s a grungy aspect to it, so it seems a ripe world to exploit – yet it is so hard to capture the authenticity of those particular worlds,” says Sherman-Palladino. She should know; her father, Don Sherman, was a standup, and she spent her childhood in California “with a group of Jews sitting around in my backyard, talking about the good old days in the Catskills [the upstate New York area where standup boomed in the postwar years].” She later worked at The Comedy Store, for Shore, a friend of her father. “But even if you don’t know what it’s like to be in a band, even if you don’t know what it is like to be a standup comic, you can smell it when it is not authentic,” she says of audiences.
Aguilar, meanwhile, believes the contrast between the fortunes of the two scenes onscreen mirrors that of them off-screen, too. “I think the music scene, right now, is just not as vibrant as the comedy scene is,” he says simply. “You can’t get into The Comedy Store on the Sunset Strip on a Tuesday night unless you know someone who can get you on the list; it is completely sold out, and that was not the case five or 10 years ago. And, at the same time, Tower Records can’t stay in business one block further up the street.”
The febrile political atmosphere is a significant factor in those fortunes, he believes. “As much as we connect to music emotionally, we connect with comedy intellectually, with a comedian telling you: ‘This is another way to look at the world,’” he says. “And I think, at certain moments, like now, or in the mid-1970s, there is a greater need for that.” As Carrey commented of the era depicted in I’m Dying Up Here: “We were coming out of Vietnam and Nixon. It was a very intense time, and that helped give birth to a new attitude and a new desire to express yourself and say those edgy truths.”
“You have an audience hungry for that again now because there is anger and fear and frustration,” agrees Aguilar.
The recent British-made documentary Dying Laughing features interviews with some of the most celebrated standups including Billy Connolly, Jerry Seinfeld, Eddie Izzard, Steve Coogan, Amy Schumer and Jo Brand. And there’s no doubt, according to Lloyd Stanton – one of its directors, who calls it “a love letter to comedians” – that such comics have a more crucial role than ever to play in the current political climate.
“As Chris Rock says in the film: ‘It sounds corny, but we are the last philosophers,’” Stanton says. “And that is what you think when you see Louis CK and Chris Rock, or you watch Colbert or The Daily Show: in an era of fake news, you go to these people, feeling that they are able to tell the truth.” Stanton and his co-director Paul Toogood will further examine the genre in a 10-part television series, exploring what they see as “this new golden age of standup”. Their previous work includes the documentary Something from Nothing: The Art of Rap. “It struck us that standup comedy was also, perhaps, similarly misunderstood, and that standup comedians possibly don’t get the praise they deserve as artists,” says Toogood.
With comedy, Stanton adds, there is an inherently high risk of failure: “It’s a bit like walking on stage and picking up a violin, and learning to play and write music in front of a live audience. You can’t practise on your own, you can’t rehearse on your own; it only works in front of an audience.”
“That’s what makes it very exciting,” enthuses Crashing creator Holmes. “There is no Google Hangout version of standup. I mean, there is; you can do a VR standup show, but it’s a little bit like sex, in the sense that there’s no digital substitute for a real, live audience.” For makers of scripted drama, standup also offers a useful vehicle to elucidate the social and political context, without as much heavy-handed exposition. David Flebotte, a former comedian himself who now heads up the writing team for I’m Dying Up Here, says: “When Cassie does her big blowjob routine on stage, we are not saying: ‘This is great standup’, but we are saying that for a woman to do this onstage in 1973 was a big freaking deal.”
“There is something very confessional about standup comedy, it’s as if you were in therapy,” notes Michael Showalter, director of The Big Sick. “So you have an environment in which your characters are entitled to speak their truth in a way that doesn’t feel contrived.” Showalter also believes the comparative lack of glamour makes standup a better fit for on-screen entertainment than music. “The banality of comedy is not sexy, but it’s very relatable,” he says. “I can’t relate to the life of a rock star. I can’t relate to what it is like to sleep all day, play a show and then party all night. But I can relate to a comedian like Jerry Seinfeld, where every little thing is funny to him but his life is really quite boring. He’s not doing cocaine off supermodels’ butts. At least, not that I am aware of.
“I think there is a fair amount of vanity in musicians; they care deeply about how they look, about the image that they project,” he continues. “That is not an appealing thing; people can’t relate to that idea of: ‘I’m so sexy, I am so comfortable with my sexuality, look at my body.’”
Comedians, he posits, are very much the opposite, lampooning themselves for laughs and stripping back vanity in favour of raw vulnerability. “Comedians shine a light on their own insecurity. So for an audience – at home or in a club – there is an invitation there from the comedian saying: ‘Don’t worry, however insecure you are, I am a thousand times worse.’” It’s a cleverly subversive way to get girls, I note: playing up your weaknesses. “Yes, you’re shy, you are socially awkward, and you go onstage and tell jokes, and suddenly everyone wants to talk to you,” Showalter agrees. “You are using your insecurity as a weapon, as a tool.”
For television and film scriptwriters, too, what could be a better tool for drama than a physical venue that serves as a showcase for human frailty and roiling insecurity? Of course, most punters don’t queue round the block at The Comedy Store consciously hoping to witness hours of raw vulnerability. But in a year characterised by anxiety, despair and political chaos, they are almost certainly seeking more than simply a belly laugh. “Music is about letting go of inhibition, about escaping the bondage of everyday life,” continues Showalter. “Whereas I think comedy, on a lot of levels, is about making sense of everyday life.”
And, goodness knows, we need all the help we can get with that right now.
I’m Dying Up Here starts on Wednesday 16 August, 10.10pm, Sky Atlantic; Dying Laughing is on Amazon Prime, iTunes and other streaming services; The Big Sick is on general release; the pilot for The Marvelous Mrs Maisel is on Amazon Prime
Like every 18-year-old boy, Sam wants to get laid. But being on the autism spectrum isn’t helping him achieve this. Netflix’s new show Atypical is a coming-of-age comedy about Sam and his attempts to get a girlfriend.
There are some good things about it. I like the way it’s as much about Sam’s family, and how they’re affected by Sam’s condition – day-to-day and over time – as it is about Sam. Mum’s consumed by it, dad’s hurt, sister’s ignored and overlooked because of it. These are things people will recognise.
And it’s neither po-faced nor a sob story. It recognises the humour in the subject and that humour might even be beneficial. Also, though a lot of the humour comes from Sam saying and doing the wrong things, not all of it does. There are laughs in other places, too, such as the support group for parents (who are po-faced, mainly worried about getting the language right). But …
Well, it’s not funny enough, or sharp enough. Or surprising – the boldness ends with the subject. The characters feel like sitcom characters, mum (Jennifer Jason Leigh) is having her midlife crisis and straying with a hot young barman. She looks lasciviously at the cucumbers in the supermarket after a night with him … ugh, really?! Dad (Michael Rapaport) is a typical, regular dad; he’s had his wobble, left because he couldn’t handle that he didn’t have a typical, regular son, but now he’s doing better. Sister Casey (Brigette Lundy-Paine) is kind of perfect – smart, funny and pretty.
Even Sam’s character is familiar. He’s high-functioning obviously, because high-functioning makes the best TV. So Sam’s an A-grade student, it’s just that he’s over-literal, not so good at reading social cues, exchanging small talk, dating, etc. Plus he’s a bit obsessed with penguins. The symptoms are all there, tick tick tick, typically atypical.
There are people who are better qualified to – and will – write about how representative Atypical is. Hey, like maybe even someone with autism. From where I am it looks as if it’s been well-researched, with input and consultation from experts, and then all shoehorned in, autism by numbers. It lacks an inside edge, a truth that might have come if, say, the actor playing Sam was on the spectrum himself. It’s a decent performance by Keir Gilchrist, not overdone, sensitive. But is there really no one out there who could have brought some personal experience to the part? That would have been bold, and interesting, and honest.
A friend recently asked me whether her young children watched too much television. After briefly outlining the screen-time agreement hammered out with my own teenage sons – a document as complex and painfully negotiated as the Peace of Westphalia, its inception littered with deadlocks and walkouts – I explained that TV was exempt. “Watching TV is the only wholesome family time we have most days,” I said.
TV is how my family bond, but it turns out we’re swimming – well, slumping on the sofa – against the tide. The rise of on-demand and streaming services has apparently triggered the demise of cosy family viewing sessions: new Ofcom research released last week paints a picture of a nation binge-watching solo on tablets and laptops rather than gathering together to squabble over the remote control. Every day, 45% of us watch TV alone, while only 30% of us watch as a family. But over here in the 30%, television keeps us together: some days ours feels like a flat-screen family therapist.
It wasn’t supposed to be like this, but I accept responsibility: my children have suckled at the teat of telly all their lives. The day we took my elder son home from the hospital, my husband sent me, hallucinating with exhaustion, to bed; I woke a few hours later to find him watching a Channel 5 programme about enormous bridges, our baby, grey-blue pebble eyes still open, tucked in the crook of his arm. A few months later, I remember the transgressive thrill-shame of seeing him (the baby, not my husband) spellbound by his first viewing of Teletubbies. 
Back then, we had thoughtful picture books in which animals learned valuable lessons about cooperation, wooden toys and principles. I believed I was the kind of person who amused her baby with homemade play-dough and lentils in margarine cartons, but after six months I discovered I was another kind of person entirely: the kind who would do anything for an uninterrupted shower, and if Tinky Winky was offering that, then I would bite his purple hand off. 
Delusions thus shattered, television became part of our family life and soon our son could recite DFS adverts more fluently than nursery rhymes. Predictably, the birth of our second son less than two years later cemented our dependence: television equated to an extra pair of hands at key moments, and when we moved to Paris – exchanging family and friends for a neighbour who banged on the ceiling with his walking stick whenever the boys cried – that was a lifeline.
I accepted, willingly, a succession of brightly coloured CBeebies blobs and, reluctantly, the dark year during which our elder boy would only watch a DVD of excavating equipment at work, set to jaunty tunes. Soon, a grim regime of Thomas the Tank Engine and Tweenies shaded into marginally more tolerable fare (though to watch The Suite Life of Zack & Cody dubbed into French is truly to gaze into the abyss). Eventually, there were a couple of idyllic years when both boys loved Horrible Histories and The Simpsons and watching TV with them became a genuine pleasure. 
Now though, we stand on the blasted heath of parenting teenagers and not even the Wonder Pets can save us. It could be worse. No one has been arrested yet and they are good kids, funny and thoughtful. But they are growing up and away, as they must, and we, their parents, are fast becoming an irrelevance: a tiresome, temporary necessity to be endured until they can escape for good. My role has narrowed down to catastrophising and laundry; my husband is in charge of shouting and maths (we share the onerous nagging duties). 
We need to keep talking, but words often feel loaded, my attempts by turn excruciating or inadequate. When we call their names, a weary, defensive look comes over them, one that seems to convey that everything we have to offer – a request to tidy up or do homework, a serious talk about “your future” or a telling-off – is terrible. We still eat dinner around the table together, as recommended by parenting manuals, but our meals are less a forum for free and heartfelt exchange than five minutes of taciturn chewing.  
Sometimes we all sit in the same room and the boys, heads bowed over phones, enveloped in a miasma of Lynx Adrenaline and secrecy, feel unimaginably remote. What are they thinking, I wonder uselessly, falling over their gigantic trainers for the 19th time that day. Are they happy? Where have I gone wrong this week and what should I worry about next? Glue, sexting, grades? How do we stick together through this tricky bit? We used to go for walks or play board games; nowadays, the suggestion of a round of Monopoly elicits as much enthusiasm as a trip to the dentist.  
What we can still share is television and every night at 9pm, when the Peace of Westphalia stipulates we put our phones away, we sit down and turn it on. Crammed together on a too-small sofa, eyes forward, the pressure is off, somehow, and we can laugh, comment and forget (briefly) why we hated each other earlier. Of course, there’s nothing special about that. A family bonding in front of a television is a staple of, well, television, from The Royle Family to Gogglebox and The Simpsons. But it’s a trope because it’s true: sometimes TV can reach the spots other parenting can’t reach. 
I am not for a second suggesting we simply put the telly on and bond, like magic. Apart from anything else, we struggle to agree on what to watch. My elder son likes dense, well-constructed dramas with rivers of blood and plentiful severed limbs, while my husband only tolerates programmes that feature explosions or cars or feed his decades-long crush on Kevin McCloud. My own tastes tend to drag queens and murder, the grimmer the better. I also insist on watching The Yorkshire Vet, to universal uproar. I cannot comprehend why my family hate its inspired combination of spectacular landscapes, countryfolk banter and harrowing scenes of castration and uterine prolapse (a whole cow was seemingly turned inside-out last week) but that just proves you never really know those closest to you. My younger son only likes Doctor Who, though he also enjoys viciously critiquing the production values of almost everything else. A Venn diagram of our individual viewing habits would be four circles strenuously avoiding each other – which is also, sometimes, how family life feels. 
But thanks to the much-vaunted golden age of television and enabled, not hindered, by on-demand and streaming, we manage to reach a sort of consensus, finding shows we all enjoy, or can at least watch without mutiny. I took a risk introducing them to Father Ted (no blood, Time Lords or Kevin McCloud), but it paid off and comedy has been our staple since then, working through 30 Rock, Arrested Development, Parks and Recreation and more. We take the occasional break for drama (Breaking Bad, Fargo) or inadvertent comedy (Designated Survivor, in which Kiefer Sutherland as president of a terrorist-riven America conveys emotion by taking off his glasses or putting them on again). 
Not everything works. I had high hopes for Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, dismissed as “too girly” and, much as he enjoyed parts of it, at 10 my younger son was probably too young for Flight of the Conchords, particularly the episode in which penury forces Jemaine into prostitution (sample song lyric: “you can say no to being a man ho”). 
But when the alchemy operates, it’s magic. Some evenings we aren’t really speaking when we sit down, the atmosphere thick with resentment or exasperation (like so many treaties, ours has not delivered lasting peace), but after 20 minutes, we’ve probably at least shared a grudging laugh. Realising we all find certain things funny is oddly comforting and when we find ourselves laughing simultaneously – at Titus Andromedon walking a “definitely not rented” peacock in Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt the other week – it feels like credit in the bank of teenage parenting: for an instant, we’re not just tedious nags. Life inside a box set can become a happy bubble carved out of reality, away from arguments, exams and the friction of daily life. Physically, too, there is a closeness that we mainly have to do without now the boys are self-contained giants. One son will use me as a cushion, while the other warms his feet under my husband’s legs. Even when they don’t, the sagging sofa cushions tip us towards one another anyway. 
I don’t expect our viewing to have a message: TV is a truce, not a learning opportunity. Even so, we’ve taken in thoughtful perspectives on sex, ambition, grief, betrayal, guilt and more, and occasionally that opens up a space and a set of references to communicate a little better about the big stuff. I have been happy, too, to watch my sons enjoy successful, funny, fully clothed women (Liz Lemon, Leslie Knope) doing responsible jobs, enjoying food and having positive – if at times deeply weird – adult relationships. 
More universally, the comedies we love feature groups of people bound together by circumstance (the Pawnee Parks Department, Craggy Island Parochial House) or blood (the Bluth family) and tangled in a web of obligation, history and sentiment. Unfit parents and awful children feature equally and the characters behave selfishly or stupidly but are forgiven and loved, over and over again. They do not offer the comforting automatic reset button of sitcoms – characters learn, grow and change – but the assurance of a continued, if evolving, bond no matter what feels very hopeful from over here on blasted teenage heath. “Do you know what family means to me, Lemon?” says Jack Donaghy in 30 Rock. “Resentment, guilt, anger … Easter egg hunts that turn into knife fights.” But Donaghy also tolerates his dreadful mother. Perhaps, with a little help from television, my children will keep tolerating theirs.
Unbreakable Kimmy Schmidt
Her ordeal as a “mole woman” (imprisoned in a bunker for 15 years by Jon Hamm’s deranged reverend) taught Kimmy resilience. “You can stand anything for 10 seconds,” Kimmy’s mantra, has numerous applications in family life (it is not, however, a revision method, as my elder son believes).
Flight of the Conchords
By all means pursue your creative dreams like struggling New Zealand pop combo Bret and Jemaine, but be prepared to end up sharing a single teacup with your bandmate. Possibly for years.
30 Rock
How to apply erratic TV star Tracy Jordan’s exhortation to “Live every week like it’s shark week” to daily life remains one of the philosophical conundrums of our age. The relationship between producer Liz Lemon and her boss, Jack Donaghy, however, is a true inspiration – coming from totally different perspectives, they nevertheless forge a relationship of trust, respect, support and even love.
Look for a boss who treats you like Jack (alternatively, look for a life partner who looks at you like Liz looks at Sabor de Soledad cheese puffs).
Parks and Recreation
Enthusiasm may not look cool, but it is an irresistible force for good, as Leslie Knope’s tireless work for the Pawnee Parks Department proves. Even flinty-eyed “aggressively mean and apathetic” intern April Ludgate finds her passion eventually.
Father Ted
Most questions in life can be answered with “yes”, “no” or “that would be an ecumenical matter”.
Elementary
Don’t let anything hold you back in life: if Lucy Liu’s Dr Watson in this entertaining but formulaic Sherlock Holmes reboot can attend crime scenes in floor-sweeping palazzo pants, flagrantly disregarding forensic best practice, truly anything is possible.
Arrested Development
Falling in love with your cousin is likely to lead to misery. And there is always money in the banana stand; you just have to work out what “banana stand” represents in your life.
For someone so enamoured of TV, I have done precious little telly-watching this summer. America is cautious when it comes to dropping quality entertainment on the small screen in the warmer months, which are seemingly only good for game shows and repeats.
But hark! In the distance there is the sound of the cineplex with its churning popcorn machines, the stench mixing with the aftershave of the teenage employees. Bless the cinema, and praise the Lord for the sweet flow of air conditioning, necessary in a city where the summers feel like punishment.
I saw my second superhero movie of the summer a couple of weeks back – Spider-Man: Homecoming. After five Spider-Man films in 15 years, I felt I had moved on from Peter Parker and his radioactive spider bite – but that was before British actor Tom Holland stepped into the blue and red spandex suit. As the teen superhero, Holland is effervescence in human form – almost breathless with youthful brio, that perfectly earnest face carrying the charm of an entire boy band.
I loved all the young performers, actually: Zendaya and Laura Harrier and Jacob Batalon. Best were all the young people with no lines who made up the school body at Parker’s fictitious New York high school: it looked like an actual Queens school. Latinx kids, Jewish kids, Asian kids, black kids! And – I say this with no offence intended – they were all so regular-looking. Forget the big second-act surprise, this was the stuff that thrilled me the most.
Imagine a world in which onscreen teenagers were allowed to look like their acne-prone, ill-dressed, chronically normal, real-world counterparts. It’s easy if you try.
Robert Manne is one of Australia’s most distinguished intellectuals and a frequent participant in public debate. He has written on everything from asylum seekers to the Holocaust to Wikileaks to the Stolen Generation. Manne’s politics also famously shifted in the mid 1990s from the right wing to the left.
But one form Manne hasn’t explored yet is the personal essay. A throat cancer diagnosis – first in 2008, then again last year – has given him reams of new material and experiences to chew over. In an operation late last year, he lost his ability to smell and to talk without the aid of a device.
He sat down with Guardian Australia in Melbourne recently to talk about his recent experiences with cancer, losing his voice and his plans to write about the experience.
Brigid Delaney: How do you feel about writing about your experiences with cancer?
Robert Manne: Particularly during the time I was in hospital (from 24 November last year for a period of weeks) and shortly after, I felt a great need to write about it. There are many reasons and one was there a lot of people in this situation who are normally very vocal and who retreat into silence or privacy. And I felt the opposite.
For example, look at writer Nora Ephron. Her career was based on telling the truth about things that had happened to her but when she got cancer she completely hid it from everyone including some members of her own family. I’m a much more private person than she ever was but I had the opposite feeling: that I ought not to be quiet. It is a human experience.
Christopher Hitchens wrote about his diagnosis and treatment of oesophageal cancer. Did you read about his experiences in his book, Mortality?
I never felt close to him at any part of his political career. I know I should read it but I’m not drawn to him for various reasons. I’ve read a little about Tony Jundt – The Memory Chalet – that explores the different emotional dimensions of being ill. As for my own writing, I’ll discover in Bendigo [at the writers festival] and also discover when I start writing, the emotions and the form the writing will take. But I don’t think fear will feature.
Why not? I can imagine having cancer would be terrifying.
I haven’t felt fear at any point to do with the illness. I don’t understand why. I had a second operation where the original wounds that were created by the surgeons became infected and I had to be rushed to emergency for a second operation. I imagine that’s fairly common. And I discovered by talking to the two surgeons that it was a life-threatening situation and I could have died. I felt no fear whatsoever when I went into the operation. I am interested in why I felt no fear. But what I have realised is I don’t want to die without notice... I think there’s a lot of preparing to be done with friends and family.
But you feel like you’ve shifted gear?
Yes. It’s a big shift. For a start, being understood has changed. As you can tell, in a quiet place it’s easy to hear me; in a noisy place it’s not. I have to look for restaurants that are quiet and have good food. It’s not all that easy.
I won’t get my voice back. You can have amplification [the insertion of a microphone], which I feel uncomfortable with, or I can speak at full volume, which is a semi-loud whisper.
They had to remove the larynx and reconstruct the throat. There’s a silicon prosthesis that is inserted, and I have to press something [to speak – he places a finger to the base of his throat]. It used to be when people had their larynx removed they made a horrible sound like a robot.
Do you feel a sense of loss that your old voice, used to great effect in public debates and lectures, is gone?
Luckily my primary way of expressing myself is in writing but for many years I’ve lectured [largely at La Trobe university], been on ABC radio, television occasionally and I’ve been involved in many public debates, but because it’s a secondary activity it hasn’t hurt me as much as it could have.
But it has made me wonder why people are so repelled or frightened by loss of voice or change of voice, so I’ve become interested in that – but it hasn’t been as a big a blow as people think.
You are going to be talking about the nature of care and caring for other at the Bendigo Writers Festival. Did you have any problems receiving care?
I haven’t found it hard to receive care partly because of (his wife) Anne’s nature. But I was actually very moved by the doctors and nurses and the speech pathologists. I’m an independent person with close family and friends and then I suddenly relied on the goodness of a small army of medical people I came across. I don’t find it difficult to be cared for when I need to be, so the overwhelming emotion is gratitude for what these people did as part of their normal life. I was a private patient but I was assured by my surgeon who works in a public hospital that people in the public system are treated in the same way.
I had great conversations with the nurses – they would sit on my bed and we would discuss literature, politics or whatever. They told me about Ireland, where they came from, and my overwhelming desire was to express gratitude.
But it wasn’t always that way. My mother had been very ill with MS and the look and the smell of hospitals have been very distressing to me since then – so when visiting them I’d avert my gaze and scurry along. But I had this almost transcendental moment when I was walking around the ward this time, when instead of being slightly averse to the experience I suddenly thought: these hospitals are the cathedrals to the humanist spirit. Everything in its place, everything working.
Did you think about how those with fewer resources might have coped with this type of cancer?
I don’t know how I would have got through this by myself. So it’s made me think about that. Apparently this form of cancer is concentrated among a lower socio-economic group – it’s usually associated with people who smoke and drink a lot. I haven’t smoked in 40 years or more and didn’t drink a lot. There’s not a lot of support for that group financially. I am speaking with an implant and the government does not support it financially. It’s not on the PBS.
You have written a lot of polemics but the personal essay is a new form for you. How do you feel about writing about your body?
I’m actually quite nervous about doing it because I’ve written on my political change of mind and a few essays of that kind but I’ve never written about my body and my relationship to it. I’m going to discover when I’m writing about it over the next few weeks how easy or difficult it will be. I either can or can’t pull it off.
I have to find something to say. There has to be some reason for writing – usually in my case it has been anger. But this is about acceptance and desire: desire that people understand it a bit. And the expression of gratitude.
• Robert Manne is appearing at the Bendigo Writers Festival on Saturday 12 August
A year after NK Jemisin became the first black person to win the Hugo award for best novel, the African American author has landed the prestigious science fiction prize for the second year running.
Jemisin was announced as the winner of the best novel Hugo at Worldcon in Helsinki on Friday. She took the prize, which is voted for by fans, for The Obelisk Gate, the follow-up to her Hugo award-winning novel The Fifth Season. The series is set in a world that is constantly threatened by seismic activity, and where the mutants who can control the environment are oppressed by humans. The New York Times called Jemisin’s writing in the series “intricate and extraordinary”.
Hugos administrator Nicholas Whyte said that 3,319 people voted in this year’s award, the third-highest vote total ever and the highest participation in the Hugos for a Worldcon outside the US or UK. “There’s been a very high level of genuine engagement and thoughtful participation,” said Whyte. “People can read into that what they like.”
The last two years of the Hugos have been plagued by block-voting campaigns from conservative lobbies calling themselves the Sad Puppies, and the more politically extreme Rabid Puppies. The two factions were out to combat a perceived tendency to reward books described by one disgruntled writer as “niche, academic, overtly to the left in ideology and flavour and ultimately lacking what might best be called visceral, gut-level, swashbuckling fun”. In 2015, this led to “no award” beating the Puppies’ slate of nominees in an unprecedented five categories, in order to avoid giving prizes to the group’s nominations. In 2016, candidates put forward by the so-called Puppies also dominated the ballots, but only two “no awards” were given.
This year, there was not a single “no award” given. On a roster of predominantly female winners, Seanan McGuire’s Every Heart a Doorway took the best novella gong, Ursula Vernon’s The Tomato Thief won best novelette, and Amal El-Mohtar’s Seasons of Glass and Iron won best short story. Revered fantasy author Ursula K Le Guin took the best related work Hugo for Words Are My Matter, a collection of her writing about life and books spanning the last 16 years, while Lois McMaster Bujold won a new award for best series, for her long-running Vorkosigan Saga. The John W Campbell award for best new writer was taken by Ada Palmer.
“This is the first time that the same author has won two years running since Lois McMaster Bujold in 1991 and 1992, a quarter of a century ago; and of course Bujold’s continuing appeal was confirmed by the Vorkosigan saga winning the new best series category,” said Whyte of Jemisin’s win. “This is a super set of results ... which demonstrate that SF is thriving and diverse.”
When Jemisin won the Hugo last year, she said that when she set out to write The Fifth Season, she had thought that no one would want to read it, and then when it was nominated for a Hugo, she had wondered who might vote for it.
She wrote on her website: “I wondered how many of my fellow SFF fans, in a year headlined by reactionary pushback against the presence and performance of people like me in the genre, would choose to vote for the story of a fortysomething big-boned dreadlocked woman of colour waging an epic struggle against the forces of oppression.”
“But I forgot: only a small number of ideologues have attempted to game the Hugo awards. That small number can easily be overwhelmed, their regressive clamour stilled, if the rest of SFF fandom simply stands up to be counted. Stands up to say that yes, they do want literary innovation, and realistic representation. Stands up to say that yes, they do just want to read good stories – but what makes a story good is skill, and audacity and the ability to consider the future clearly rather than through the foggy lenses of nostalgia and privilege.”
The Hugos have been running since the 1950s and have been won by authors including Isaac Asimov, Robert A Heinlein and Neil Gaiman.
Best novel The Obelisk Gate by NK Jemisin (Orbit Books)
Best novellaEvery Heart a Doorway by Seanan McGuire (Tor.com publishing)
Best noveletteThe Tomato Thief by Ursula Vernon (Apex Magazine, January 2016)
Best short storySeasons of Glass and Iron, by Amal El-Mohtar (The Starlit Wood: New Fairy Tales, Saga Press)
Best related work Words Are My Matter: Writings About Life and Books, 2000-2016 by Ursula K Le Guin (Small Beer)
Best graphic story Monstress, Volume 1: Awakening, written by Marjorie Liu, illustrated by Sana Takeda (Image)
Best dramatic presentation (long form)Arrival, screenplay by Eric Heisserer based on a short story by Ted Chiang, directed by Denis Villeneuve
Best dramatic presentation (short form)The Expanse: Leviathan Wakes, written by Mark Fergus and Hawk Ostby, directed by Terry McDonough (SyFy)
Best seriesThe Vorkosigan Saga by Lois McMaster Bujold (Baen)
John W Campbell award for best new writerAda Palmer
Rather than worrying about rainbow badges to indicate anti-homophobia or avoidance of the word “Easter” in their publicity (The National Trust has become an easy target in the culture wars, G2, 9 August), the National Trust would do better to pay more attention to the accessibility of their paths.
Anyone who has pushed a wheelchair through the deep gravel so beloved of NT country house gardens will know what I mean – it is almost impossible.
A binding resin, or a double run of stone-flagging, the width of the wheels, would blend sympathetically with the surroundings and solve the problem immediately. As Sir Simon Jenkins could confirm, I have written to the Trust three times over the past few years, asking for a fundraising campaign to be considered, to begin a rolling programme of such improvements.
I also offered starter money to begin the fund. I received bland assurances in reply and precisely no action.Anne AyresHuthwaite, Nottinghamshire
• Why is the National Trust not insisting on its army of volunteers undertaking their duties in wheelchairs in order to demonstrate empathy with their disabled customers. Any organisation worth its salt as a virtue-signaller should have been on to this long since.Edward ThomasEastbourne, East Sussex
• The trivial nature of the complaints against the National Trust obscures more serious concerns. The NT has adopted the signature message “for ever, for everyone”, but this does not apply to its libraries. The NT has one of the country’s largest collections of old and rare books and complete libraries, but the average visitor does not have any access to these. Visitors often cannot get near enough to see the book titles. The books are just there for decoration, locked away, never to be used or consulted. Although the libraries are being catalogued and conserved, there does not appear to be any NT policy for displaying the contents for visitors or making any educational use of these vast and interesting collections.Malyn NewittLockerley, Hampshire
• Reading about the recipe change by the National Trust to their flapjacks, I wondered if it was one of these that Jill Archer threw at a restaurateur last week? Though I would expect her to approve of the new ingredients – using seeds, fruit and nuts and less sugar. I do that myself.Jill BennettSt Albans, Hertfordshire 
Congratulations to Michael Billington for capturing the spirit of Max Wall, who starred in Krapp’s Last Tape at Greenwich in 1975 (Why Krapp’s Last Tape leaves us reeling, 10 August). Almost 10 years later I directed a South Bank Show documentary with Max, who played the role again for our cameras. During the filming we met Samuel Beckett and he gave us permission to film the play on location for the first time. Max’s stressing of the word “spool” came from his variety act as Professor Wallofski, who was about to give us a recital on the pianoforte and couldn’t fine the stool to sit on. He elongated the word “spool” in our film too.Paul FoxallCollingbourne Ducis, Wiltshire
• I would like to add to Michael Billington’s tally of memorable performances of Krapp’s Last Tape. Mine was in the early 1970s, in Paris. The studio was small, stuffy, dark and cramped. Everyone was just a few feet from the actor. Although a French speaker, I had to concentrate quite hard. I was suddenly brought out of myself by an angry aside from the actor, admonishing the audience to keep quiet. Later I went back to the script to reassure myself that this indeed came from the actor, rather than from Beckett himself.Val MainwoodWivenhoe, Essex
The recent hold of caped crusaders over cinema has been unavoidable, but now a new Netflix show aims to push the boundaries of the superhero genre on television.
The Defenders, which has been described as the “urban Avengers”, is the latest show in the ever-expanding Marvel universe and is released on 18 August. It brings together the New York-dwelling outsider superheroes – Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, Daredevil and Iron Fist, who all had their own individual Netflix shows – and unites them as a quartet to battle the crime syndicate known as The Hand.
The expensive production and ambition of the project confirms Netflix’s commitment to superhero television. This week the streaming site announced it had acquired comic publisher Millarworld, whose roster includes Kick Ass, Kingsman and Wanted, in a move to own and develop its own universe of superhero TV series and films.
The Defenders began as a comic in the 1970s, with heroes such as Doctor Strange and the Hulk appearing throughout. It was discontinued but in January, ahead of the TV series debut, Marvel relaunched it as a comic book written by one of the comic book company’s most popular writers, Brian Michael Bendis. He described it as “a sprawling, Godfather-like epic at the street level of the Marvel universe” based around “a modern, elaborate organised crime story”.
Marvel’s head of television, Jeph Loeb, said the decision to bring together the four heroes in a single, eight-episode TV show had been a challenging and risky undertaking. It had been based on the model of Marvel film The Avengers, which united Iron Man, Hulk, Thor and Captain America on the big screen after each starring in their own movies.
He said: “I think that The Defenders is the most ambitious television project to date, period. We really set out to do something that had never been done in the history of television. From the very beginning, we started and committed to four separate television series, not knowing whether any of them would work.
“The idea was that at the end of completing all four of them, we would take all of our actors, not knowing if any of them would even be suitable for the roles, and put them together in a story where they would interact with each other and fight a common problem. That’s an extraordinary journey.”
Daredevil, Luke Cage and Jessica Jones were all praised, but fans were critical of Iron Fist.
The series opens with Luke Cage (Mike Colter) recently out of jail; private investigator Jessica Jones (Krysten Ritter) drinking hard; Iron Fist Danny Rand (Finn Jones) returned from Cambodia; and blind lawyer Matt Murdock AKA Daredevil (Charlie Cox) working as a pro-bono prosecutor.
Loeb said a key appeal of bringing these troubled, solitary, often reluctant heroes together in one series was “that you would get to see what the nature of heroism is from the perspective of four different types of people. It’s not easy with the job that they have or the choices that they make, because the choice that they’ve made is to stand up when everyone is told to sit down. That’s really the hardest part about being a hero.”
It was a view echoed by Cox, whose character, Matt Murdock, got his powers after being blinded as a child. Cox said: “If you think about all four of these characters and the possibility that on a daily basis they all live with a level of loneliness and shame around who they are, there is suddenly the possibility to feel part of something, to feel heroic in a completely new sense of the word and to feel understood in a way that they haven’t been understood before,” he said.
The show’s villain is played by Sigourney Weaver, and aside from her name, Alexandra Reid, and her immaculate wardrobe, Marvel and Netflix have kept her role and her character’s motives secret. Weaver described her as “a very confident, smart and persuasive leader. When people say that I’m the villain, well, I think that that is just one way to look at the character.”
She added: “To me, Alexandra has a lot of wisdom because she’s been doing what she does for a long time and she has a lot of empathy. She’s a very complex character and I felt delighted to be a part of that. There’s also a lot of comedy, action and a lot of great character work, plus a lot of surprises in the show.”
The Defenders’ showrunner, Marco Ramirez, said it was driven by the differences and clashing personalities of its four heroes. He said: “We wanted to pay respect to Brian Michael Bendis and to a lot of the creators who have worked really hard on the comics and who have already established this very layered, backstreets of New York world. I think that some of the fun has been seeing where a storyline can intersect with the comics and give fans, like myself, some really fun moments.”
My musical solutions are now fully in place, locked and loaded, should Donald Trump act unwisely. And guess who’s at the top of my “Motivating Music for a Nuclear Winter” playlist? Taylor Swift.
The last few days have seen a temperamental Trump tweet the world closer to world war III. The president has been emotional, voluble and reckless – traits one would tolerate in a toddler but which are treacherous in a head of state.
Presenting a far more presidential demeanor, however, has been Taylor Swift. This week, the pop star has been settling a score of her own in a Denver courthouse. And while the White House may be a hot mess, Swift has been the picture of cool, collected and courageous. If Trump wants to learn what tough really looks like, he could do with taking some lessons from Tay-Tay.
In case you’re unfamiliar with the case, a quick recap. In 2013, Swift took a photo with a Denver radio host called David Mueller during a meet-and-greet. According to Swift, Mueller groped her butt as they were having their picture taken. Mueller was subsequently fired and, in 2015, sued Swift for at least $3m, claiming he lost his job because of allegations he says are false. The singer swiftly counter-sued for sexual assault.
Swift is seeking a symbolic $1 and has said she wants to be an example for other women who have been assaulted; any money she wins will be donated towards a charity that fights sexual assault.
On Thursday, Swift took to the stand for the first time to testify. Immediately, she was subjected to the sort of victim blaming-and-shaming that stops so many women from coming forward about sexual assault.
Mueller’s lawyer, Gabriel McFarland, for example, asked Swift how she felt about her accusations costing his client his job. Swift defended herself in a manner that has been an inspiration to women everywhere: “I’m not going to allow you or your client to make me feel in any way that this is my fault. Here we are years later, and I’m being blamed for the unfortunate events of [Mueller’s] life that are the product of his decisions – not mine.”
While Swift has rightly been lauded by many, she’s also been criticized and accused of attention-seeking. Of course she has. Anytime a woman stands up for herself, there are always people ready to knock her down. Anytime a woman refuses to be treated as if her sole purpose in life is the pleasure of men, there are people quick to punish her for it.
Last year, for example, the supermodel Gigi Hadid fought off a man who attempted to grab her from behind as she was leaving a fashion show in Milan. As if it wasn’t bad enough that Hadid had to defend herself from a stranger who thought he was entitled to manhandle her, the supermodel was then forced to defend her actions to critics who basically accused her of overreacting.
“NOT MODEL BEHAVIOUR”, read one headline from the Daily Mail, which presumably thought Hadid should have been flattered by the attention. The incident was also severely played down by journalists, with the man routinely described as a “prankster”.
Forcing yourself on to someone like that isn’t a “prank”, however – it’s assault. That shouldn’t be something you have to explain. Nevertheless, women are constantly forced to explain the fact that their bodies aren’t public possessions over and over again. Swift is doing just that at the moment.
Women are also constantly forced to fight for proper recognition of and respect for their work. Throughout her career, Swift has routinely been portrayed as “crazy” and obsessive; a silly “boy-obsessed” little girl.
This despite the fact that the 27-year-old is worth $280m and the youngest woman on Forbes’s list of America’s richest self-made women. This despite the fact that she was the youngest person to single-handedly write and perform a number one on the Hot Country Songs chart.
This despite the fact that, in 2009, Swift became the youngest album of the year winner at the Grammys. I could go on and on. Ever since she started working in music at the age of 14, Swift has amassed an impressive list of accolades. And yet she’s still got men trying to negate her achievements.
Take Kanye West, for example, whose song Famous features the line “I made that bitch [Swift] famous” – in reference to when West famously interrupted Swift at the VMAs in 2009.
But as Swift is reminding the world this week, she made herself famous, and for good reason. Swift is a force to be reckoned with: underestimate her at your peril.
With a misogynist in America’s highest office – a man who treats women like objects for his personal amusement – Swift’s public declaration of her self-worth and her assertion of her rights is incredibly powerful.
So … Tay-Tay 2020, anyone? If there is a 2020, that is.
Not so much theatre shows as exercises in tedium, these new pieces from Trainspotting author Irvine Welsh would never have seen the light of day if they didn’t have his name attached. An audience expecting the skanky wit and vim of Trainspotting will be disappointed by this duo of tired and clumsy plays.
Performers, written with Dean Cavanagh, is potentially the more interesting of the two. Apparently, when making the 1970 movie Performance, which starred Mick Jagger and James Fox, directors Nicolas Roeg and Donald Cammell wanted to hire real villains to play the gangsters. Their quest for authenticity sees low-life criminals Alf (Perry Benson) and Bert (George Russo) turning up at the production offices. But with slack direction from Nick Moran, it has all the tension of a used teabag. The comic tour de force that is supposed to ensue when a pretentious young assistant director persuades Alf to take off his clothes is embarrassingly limp.
Set in 1969, it would have looked dated and if it had actually been written that year, and – in their own quest for authenticity – Welsh and Cavanagh appear to have copied out a cockney rhyming slang dictionary lock, stock and barrel.
If Performers aims for comic grittiness and misses by a mile, Creatives is all bland, slick shininess; straight out of the Fame mould. It’s a musical, written with Don de Grazia, about a group of would-be songwriters attending a Chicago course run by former punk Paul, whose career has nosedived and whose personal life is complicated.
The students are all stereotypes, ranging from moody goth girl to (bizarrely) a redneck Trump supporter, and the entire thing starts to resemble an audition for the X Factor but with less convincing back stories, until a violent plot twist pushes it into outright melodrama.
The US cast are game, and Laurence Mark Wythe’s music and lyrics cry out for a better vehicle than this cliched attempt to explore the price of creativity and the pressures to sell out for a quick buck. One imagines that is exactly what Welsh has done with these abysmal efforts.
• Performers is at the Assembly Rooms until 27 August. Box office: 0131-623 3030. Creatives is at the Pleasance Courtyard until 28 August. Box office: 0131-556 6550.
Dance has had an uneven history at the Edinburgh fringe. For decades it seemed to be marooned within the official festival – considered either too posh or too delicate to survive elsewhere. But this year the situation has been entirely reversed, and while the official programme looks predictable and lacklustre, the fringe is presenting one of its boldest, sparkiest seasons yet. At Dance Base, the modest but excellent complex of studios on Grassmarket, I saw three seriously interesting works in one afternoon.
038, Kuo-Shin Chuang’s minimalist but intensely felt work for Pangcah Dance theatre is rooted in the folk culture of rural Taiwan. Its concerns, however, are those of the restless, rootless 21st century as it addresses the core of yearning that’s carried within those who’ve migrated far from home.
At a casual glance, Chuang’s choreography may look formulaic. Nine women, uniformly dressed in grey smocks, are bunched in close-knit formations: shuffling, sprinting, sometimes lined up on chairs as the insistent chug of an electronic score drives them forward on some unspecified journey.
Yet that journey begins to acquire a powerful, emotional imperative. The women’s faces turn raptly towards the light, perhaps seeking some common destination. There’s quality in their dancing, their gracefully held arms and their grounded, patterned footwork that speaks of an older tradition pulsing urgently through their bodies. As folk melodies and the sound of lapping waves emerge through the music, and images of rural villages are projected onto a screen, we feel so strongly the emotional tug of home that the closing image, a clustering group embrace, has a piercing quality of nostalgia.
Perhaps it’s a measure of our times that all three of the works I saw at Dance Base had an element of being adrift, embattled or lost. John, the rugged outdoorsy hero of Joan Clevillé’s North, is desperate to find his way home, although according to the work’s fairytale logic, he’s magically forgotten where home might be. All he knows, from the evidence of one desultory Christmas tree and some polystyrene snow, is that he’s somewhere very far north from where he wants to be.
Two women, dressed identically – and surprisingly – in Fair Isle sweaters and gold jeans, offer to help. But as in all fairytales, strangers can be dangerous. As the two women dance around John, they engage him in riddling conversations, and shapeshift haphazardly into howling wolves, comic-book reindeers or squeaky cartoon characters.
Clevillé, who grew up Barcelona, is clearly fascinated by a region so remote from his own origins and he brings an interesting hinterland of Nordic folk tales and frozen landscapes to the stage. I found myself thinking of Kay, the lost boy in Hans Christian Andersen’s The Snow Queen.
But this hour-long piece of dance theatre is patchy. Some of the material is funny and ingenious, such as the sequence where the two women “fly” John through the sky, rippling his anorak and his cheeks as though he were being buffeted by high winds. But too many of the jokes become banal. When John is finally persuaded to relinquish his past and accept his new surroundings, the conclusion feels forced and unearned.
A far more epic journey – Captain Ahab’s quest to catch Moby Dick – is the inspiration for James Wilton’s Leviathan. You have to admire the chutzpah of even conceiving a dance out of Melville’s novel, and in some respects Wilton does make it work.
He himself performs a very convincing Ahab – tall and gauntly charismatic – and the vocabulary he deploys for the captain and his four sailors has a gnarly obsessive power, their bodies knotted together in fierce, full-bodied leaps and rolls and lifts. With bells clamouring through the electro-rock score (by Lunatic Soul) and a simple set design of flashing lights and ropes, Leviathan conveys an impressive sense of men battling the elements. Wilton’s choreographic invention fails, however, when he tries to conjure the terror and mystique of the great white whale.
Sara Jane Taylor, whose impossible job it is to inhabit this role, undulates her spine very beautifully, her arms outspread, but she can’t come close to projecting the symbolic or physical magnitude of Moby Dick’s presence. Nor is there much evidence of a developing narrative beyond the falling of bodies as Ahab and his crew perish. Wilton says he’s taken only “loose” inspiration from Melville, that Leviathan is also a meditation on man’s predatory relationship with the natural world. But even with the collaboration of a dramaturg, Mark Laville, the work feels muddled, and far less than the sum of its very real potential and craft.
038, by Kuo-Shin Chuang Pangcah Dance theatre, 15.15, until 27 August (not Mondays); The North, by Joan Clevillé Dance, 16.15, until 13 August; Leviathan, by James Wilton Dance, 17.30, until 13 August. All at Dance Base, Edinburgh. Box office: 0131-225 5525.
A former bodyguard for Taylor Swift has said he saw a DJ she accuses of groping her reach under the singer’s skirt during a 2013 pre-concert meet-and-greet photo session.
But Greg Dent testified on Friday he did not take any immediate action because he generally took his cues from Swift, and she gave him none.
Dent said he was a few steps away from Swift at the photo-op and watched everyone who came in and left. Dent said David Mueller groped Swift under her skirt a moment before a staff photographer took a photo of Swift, Mueller and Mueller’s then-girlfriend.
He says the photo shows Swift trying to move away from Mueller. Swift testified the photo captured the exact moment she was groped.
The pop superstar testified for about an hour on Thursday, sometimes using unflinching language in giving her account of what happened.
When Mueller’s lawyer asked how she felt about him losing his job at a radio station following their encounter, Swift said: “I’m not going to allow you or your client make me feel in any way that this is my fault.
“Here we are years later, and I’m being blamed for the unfortunate events of his life that are the product of his decisions – not mine.”
Her testimony came four days into a rapidly moving trial that is scheduled to last nearly two weeks.
Mueller sued Swift after her team reported the alleged assault to his bosses at a country music station. He’s seeking up to $3m, saying the allegation cost him his job and reputation.
Swift counter-sued, claiming sexual assault and seeking $1. Mueller testified he did not grope Swift.
We’re coming to the end of a particularly chilly summer in Hollywood. It’s been a brutal week for movie theater chains as they ready their quarterly earnings reports for shareholders and warn those investors that they’re not going to like what they see. The AMC theater chain is hemorrhaging money, with a 27% decrease in value over the summer, ticket sales have fallen 10.8% across the board, stocks are in a nosedive (China’s Wanda Group has ponied up $100m to buy out available AMC stock), and the four largest multiplex operations have cumulatively lost $1.3bn.
Present projections predict a year-end total of $11.2bn in ticket sales, chalking up a hefty slide down from last year’s $11.37bn. Just last week, The Dark Tower, a starry wannabe franchise-starter, became the latest under-seen fatality of the season. Things are not looking good.
While the past few months have seen a handful of highly visible exceptions (Wonder Woman, for one, raked in a princely $400m to claim the No 2 spot for the year to date in box-office gross), the articles declaring 2017 to be the greatest movie summer on record refer mainly to the preponderance of high quality films making the rounds rather than big-impact blockbusters.
Positive reviews do not a hit make – consider the sad example of Atomic Blonde, a glossy action flick which has barely recouped its $30m budget despite glowing notices and Charlize Theron as a bisexual martial arts Amazon in black lingerie – and we’re in a severe drought of crowd-pleasers operating on a studio scale. It feels like the ink has scarcely dried on last year’s postmortem of the summer wreckage, and yet the time has come to undertake the solemn work of surveying the damage once again.
The defining lesson of this year’s flop crop: there’s no such thing as a sure thing. We’ve watched studios incrementally move away from original, creator-driven projects seen as “risky” (meanwhile, the first-time director Jordan Peele’s Get Out is the most profitable film of the year, with a $175m payday on a measly $4.5m budget) towards franchises and other projects ostensibly boasting built-in audiences through brand recognition. But this summer, audiences drew a line under what they’ll buy into on simple merit of nostalgia or the sunk-time fallacy, and now the chickens of failure have come home to roost.
2017 was the year that moviegoers finally rejected presumption. This year saw a crop of films boldly positing themselves as franchise-starters crash and burn on arrival, learning the hard way that audiences don’t want to spend 90 minutes on what feels like setup for something they’ll get in two years. The Dark Tower condensed seven novels of knotty Stephen King prose into one incomprehensible package that then positioned itself as Act I in a grander, dumber vision with its final minutes.
King Arthur: Legend of the Sword, The Emoji Movie, Power Rangers and Baywatch all attempted to substitute familiarity for wit and heart, assuming the audience wanted to hang out with characters they knew without first proving they deserved to be loved.
Films content with their own finality fared surprisingly well, however; Baby Driver has nearly hit the hundred-million mark, and though Dunkirk didn’t quite match Christopher Nolan’s past successes, it more than paid for itself with a $140m US gross. While horror and action continue to thrive, this year Hollywood has struggled with comedies; successes like The Lego Batman Movie, Despicable Me 3 and The Boss Baby all fall under the “compulsory kiddie cinema” umbrella, and the twin disappointments Rough Night and The House simply weren’t funny enough to survive in the laugh-or-be-killed landscape of comedy. Girls Trip is the odd sleeper hit out, and its fiscal success ($95m worldwide to date from a $19m budget) may help make sense of a scattershot season.
While public discourse continues to rage over the position and utility of identity politics – the championing of marginalized groups along lines of gender, race and sexuality – executives have found that the topic isn’t so embattled in cineplexes. Girls Trip, Wonder Woman and Get Out all earned public goodwill by offering someone other than a white man their moment in the spotlight, and proved that audiences aren’t afraid of diversity. Quite the opposite, in fact; white men have been calling their bankability into question left and right. Once upon a time, the mention of Will Ferrell, Tom Cruise or Johnny Depp would have been enough to sell The House, a Mummy revival or another lackluster Pirates of the Caribbean flick. But with no wattage to hide behind, The House face-planted and the latter pair failed to meet earnings expectations, despite objectively large sums.
Which leaves the confounding case of Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets. On paper, it should have been huge: an unfamiliar story in a time when audiences grumble over Hollywood’s lack of creativity, a ravishing sci-fi spectacle with enough CGI to make Avatar look like a student film, a cast featuring a supermodel and a pop star bringing their huge followings to the table. Perhaps in practice, it was all too outré to sell to the American people, an incoherent mishmash when compressed into ad form.
Maybe critics wield more power than conventionally assumed, as the majority of reviews warned that the complete bafflement of the ad campaign carried over to the film itself. Either way, the most expensive independent production of all time had to rely on overseas markets to make its money back, settling for a $37m haul in the US. (Things are just peachy in China, Hollywood’s twin to the east; its entertainment economy keeps growing as US films develop a foothold, with Wolf Warrior II’s nearly $600m take setting the national record for highest-grossing film of all time.)
If there’s sense to be made out of this mass carnage, it’s that movies can no longer afford to phone it in. At least in the past few months, audiences have gotten sharper about shunning entertainment that panders to them or insults their intellects. Half-baked ready-made franchise pilots, braindead remakes of half-forgotten pop culture flotsam, sequels coasting on the goodwill earned by preceding films – you’re all on notice. If there’s a more inspiring bellwether of hope for the future than the latest Pirates and Transformers movie’s grosses paling in comparison to those of previous installments, I’d love to see it.
“Every scene needs a chronicler like Lizzy Goodman,” was Jim Carroll’s wholehearted recommendation, in the Irish Times, of Lizzy Goodman’s Meet Me in the Bathroom: Rebirth and Rock and Roll in New York City 2001-2011. The book is “a meaty oral history”, “a wild read” and “strikes all the right notes. As oral histories go, this is one of the very best.” In the Observer, former music journalist Barbara Ellen admired Goodman’s ability “to marshal a veritable army of interviewees who’re not only prepared to talk, but also to gossip, muse, digress, ramble, even bitch and fume, to build the most accurate picture”, making the book “beautifully paced, vivid, informative and compelling”. For the Sunday Times’s Lise Verrico, it was exhaustive at more than 600 pages, and “full of colourful characters, catty comments and incredible candour”.
Anthony Quinn’s novel Eureka also looks back at a swinging time, in this case London in the 1960s, with characters including acid casualty screenwriter Nat Fane. It is part three of a “loosely linked and hugely enjoyable trilogy”, explained Peter Stanford in the Observer, but “works just as well as a standalone”. Stanford found mysteries, wit and entertainment aplenty, but reassured readers: “If Eureka is beginning to sound too clever by half, rather like a 60s counterculture film, what brings it all delightfully together is Quinn’s flawless, easy-going prose. He never once puts a foot wrong either in the wealth of period detail or in giving each well-drawn character their distinctive voice. Clever, certainly, but in just the right measure.” The Mail on Sunday’s Hephzibah Anderson described it as a “pleasingly melancholic romp [which] gallivants towards a dark mystery”, and the Times’s Siobhain Murphy decided that “Quinn’s immersive approach to his historical fiction means we’re soon woozy with the sounds and sights of that significant year”. Not the Daily Mail’s John Harding, though. “[The 60s] are unconvincingly evoked here, with pop music limited to the Beatles and references to Mr Fish fashion and hula hoops feeling tacked on,” he wrote. “The book is padded out with excerpts from Nat’s film script. Let’s hope it never gets made – it’s as flimsy as a go-go dancer’s miniskirt.”
Critics were also divided over the debut novel by Zinzi Clemmons, What We Lose, about a light-skinned black woman living in the US. “Luminescent,” raved Lucy Scholes in the Independent. “Sometimes fierce and angry, other times quiet and tender, it’s a story about identity organised around [a] central, momentous loss – that of a parent – that expands and contracts, as with the beating of a heart, to encompass meditations on race, sex and love … Intelligently and impressively conceived, and beautifully told.” “A memoir trying hard to pass itself off as fiction,” complained Claire Allfree in the Daily Mail. “Clemmons, who shares a lot of biography with her narrator, has a bracingly clear-eyed view on racial politics and the psychological dissonance of living between two cultures, and the tension between her steady prose and turbulent emotions is beautifully sustained. Yet I found it frustrating ... Clemmons has yet to make this territory her own.” But the Sunday Times’s Phil Baker was impressed, on balance, finding that “sometimes the result feels like a struggle between grief and pretentiousness, but the frankness and intelligence of the writing win out”.
A TV drama that has a doctor and a cop as its central characters is not giving itself much chance of originality. However, Valkyrien - which starts on Channel 4 on Sunday at 9pm, with all episodes subsequently streamed on All 4 - succeeds in being truly unusual.
This is because the medic and the investigator are paranoid mavericks who end up running a secret hospital for those whose treatment the state will not fund, or who cannot risk, for reasons of notoriety or privacy, showing their face at an ordinary clinic.
The distinctiveness of the series is even more impressive because the eight-parter, the latest subtitled offering from the Walter Presents store of global drama, is of Scandinavian origin. Having revolutionised first the crime drama with The Killing and then political fiction with another Danish series, Borgen, Scandi-drama was at risk of releasing inferior imitations into an international market packed with local shows that had learned lessons from the first wave of Nordic imports.
But, made and first shown in Norway, Valkyrien suggests that this pioneering TV region is still ahead of the game. Creating its own genre of hospital-cop-fugitive dramas, Valkyrien’s only obvious debt is to the TV show that the schedules of Walter Presents have revealed to be the most globally influential - Breaking Bad. Most countries now having their own story about the middle-class professional who, Walter White-like, goes rogue. In Magnifica, 70, one of WP’s strongest finds, a Brazilian film-censor becomes a pornographer and, in Valkyrien, a surgeon starts to operate literally underground.
Dr Ravn (Sven Nordin) is a specialist who designs an experimental treatment for his dying wife, but is refused permission, on ethical grounds, to treat her. The acceptance of his wife’s death by mainstream medicine drives him outside the profession, setting up a laboratory in a disused bomb shelter beneath an Underground station.
These premises were identified by Ravn’s mate, Leif (Pål Sverre Hagen), a member of Norway’s Civil Defense Unit, which risk-assesses and assists with emergency situations. Untroubled about taking his work home with him, Leif is a prolific doomwatch blogger, warning his fellow nationals of the imminent possibility of society collapsing through terrorism, over-population, climate change or energy shortages. Leif strongly believes that his nation was wrong to stop building bunkers when World War II and the Cold War were over.
A procedural peculiarity at the funeral of Ravn’s wife will lead most viewers to guess the twist at the end of episode one, but Valkyrien is not a series that depends on an over-arching plot tension or cliffhangers. What keeps you watching is the week-by-week possibilities of the type of people whose only option is to be treated illegally by a struck-off doctor assisted by a conspiracy theorist. Patients prepared to try anything, terrorists, refugees, celebrities, politicians are some of those we might expect to check in.
Equally attractive is the odd, ominous atmosphere of the piece. Post-apocalyptic dramas are quite common on television (Survivors, Fallen Skies, Dominion), but Valkyrien is, much more intriguingly, pre-apocalyptic, topically catching the mood of a Europe in which peace, resources, money, hope and luck seem to be running out.
The rights to an English-language, London-set version of Valkyrien have reportedly already been sold, but conspiracy theorists in British TV should surely soon start investigating exactly how and why it is that Scandinavia, in recent years, has proved to be so far ahead of everyone else in making TV fiction.
Bricks-and-mortar bookshops have launched a broadside against Britain’s “deeply unfair” tax system, which they say forces them to compete against the likes of Amazon “with one hand tied behind their backs”, after it was revealed that the online retailer’s corporation tax more than halved last year.
On Thursday, Amazon’s latest annual accounts for its European online retail business revealed that while turnover at Amazon UK Services – the company’s warehouse and logistics operation – rose to almost £1.5bn in 2016, its corporation tax payments fell from £15.8m to £7.4m year on year.
“It is simply wrong that the current system is so heavily weighted against bricks-and-mortar retailers, who are paying £2.41 in business rates for every £1 paid in corporation tax,” said the Booksellers Association’s head of corporate affairs Giles Clifton. “This deeply unfair system must end.”
Bedford’s Waterstones branch currently pays 17 times more in business rates per square foot than the nearby Amazon distribution centre. Changes to the UK’s business-rate system, which came into affect in April, saw booksellers warning the Treasury that the subsequent increase in rates for small businesses would negatively impact the 800-odd independent booksellers currently on the UK’s high streets
Clifton said that British booksellers were demanding “fair taxation” and “a level playing field” from the government, and called for the issue to be addressed immediately.
With Oxfam calling for the UK government to urgently implement comprehensive reporting for multinationals “to ensure they pay their fair share of tax”, the Booksellers Association has now also demanded reform, or risk the closure of the UK’s 867 booksellers – nearly half the number that existed 11 years ago.
“These latest figures from Amazon confirm what has become an annual event, an annual Groundhog Day. This is, quite simply, that Amazon is able to pay very low rates of tax in the UK … This gives Amazon – possessed of a huge market share and all the associated commercial bargaining power that goes with it – a further substantial advantage over its competitors in the UK book trade,” said Clifton, calling the current system “out of date and discredited” and warning that, without change, “there is a clear danger that more independent booksellers will close”.
“We have to be optimistic and start off with a belief that we can convince people the current system isn’t working. If our calls are not heeded, then we will continue with a situation in which it is much harder to succeed commercially as a bookseller, as the system is unbalanced,” said Clifton. “The system needs to be reformed so the burden of taxation … is spread more evenly [and] corporations like Amazon contribute more.”
A spokesperson for Amazon told the Guardian: “Amazon pays all the taxes that are required in every country where we operate.”
Late-night hosts on Thursday addressed Donald Trump’s press conference at his golf resort in New Jersey, where he doubled down on his threats to North Korea.
“Before we start the show tonight I’d like to go on the record: I do not want the world to blow up,” Stephen Colbert began. “That’s where my house is.
“But things are getting tense between Donald Trump and Kim Jong-un,” he continued. “For the record, we didn’t start it. North Korea has been testing these missiles for a long time now and saying specifically they’re making them to attack the United States. So obviously a firm response is necessary, but maybe not ‘fire and fury the likes of which the world has never seen’,” he added, referencing Trump’s comments from Tuesday.
“I understand wanting to say that,” the host went on. “But this is like a hostage situation. You don’t start with ‘go ahead kill everybody, I’ll kill ’em better, then who wins?’
“There is one world leader who actually thinks Donald Trump did not go far enough. And that would be Donald Trump. Because this afternoon, he addressed a nervous world from the steps of the Jersey White House.”
Colbert then showed footage of Trump answering questions from the press, repeating that his “fire and fury” statement might not have been “tough enough”.
“What is tougher than fire and fury?” Colbert asked. “Lava and rage? A paper cut and a lemon? Rizzoli and Isles? Crate and Barrel? Key and Peele?”
Colbert continued: “To be fair, North Korea isn’t helping in this situation. Today they said they’re drawing up plans to launch four intermediate-range ballistic missiles into waters near Guam. Speaking of which, the president addressed those threats this afternoon.”
Trump, at that same press conference, said: “Let’s see what he does with Guam.”
“Let’s not see what he does with Guam,” the host shot back. “You can’t just offer up a US territory for target practice. It’s filled with people!”
Seth Meyers of NBC also weighed in on the president’s escalation of his rhetoric toward the North Korean government, and his advisers’ attempts to talk them back.
“As you recall, tensions with North Korea were simmering at a moderate heat until Trump decided to crank up the burner with this reckless comment on Tuesday,” Meyers began. “Almost immediately after that comment, the adults around Trump tried to tamp down the rhetoric. First up, secretary of state Rex Tillerson.”
Meyers then showed a clip of Tillerson addressing the North Korean threat in more modulated terms, telling the American people they can “sleep well tonight”.
“Sleep well tonight? We haven’t been sleeping well since November,” Meyers responded. “Other Trump aides even went a step further than Tillerson, essentially telling the rest of the world not to take Trump seriously. One aide told a reporter for Politico: ‘Fire and fury was not carefully vetted language from Trump. Don’t read too much into it.’”
Meyers continued: “So naturally, hearing that some of his aides and advisers might have been trying to tone things down, Trump went back in front of the camera today and doubled down, insisting that his original comment might not have been tough enough.
“What’s crazy about all of this is that the original comments Trump is now doubling down on were improvised on the spot during a briefing on the opioid crisis,” the host explained. “In fact, the paper he seemed to be looking at wasn’t even a scripted statement on North Korea. It was a fact sheet on [the opioid] crisis.”
Meyers then addressed the president’s comments on the opioid crisis, which displayed his unfamiliarity with the issue.
“And you can tell Trump was familiar with the facts from the ingenious plan he came up with for stopping the opioid epidemic,” Meyers said. About that epidemic, Trump said: “Talking to youth, telling them no good, really bad for you. If they don’t start, it will never be a problem.”
Meyers responded: “If you don’t want people to start taking drugs, stop making them think the end of the world is imminent.”
One day 51 years ago, Tom Phillips strolled from his home in Peckham, south London, with his friend, the American painter Ron Kitaj. His idea was to buy a secondhand book at random and work on it for the rest of his life as an art project. Whatever book Phillips found, he would draw, paint and collage over its pages. The result would be a found text with a new story, a creative betrayal of the original. “Betrayal is too strong a word,” the 80-year-old painter, poet and composer corrects me as we drink tea at his kitchen table. “I envisaged myself climbing on someone else’s shoulders to make myself taller.”
The book he bought for threepence at a nearby junk shop was the 1892 romantic potboiler A Human Document by forgotten Victorian novelist William Hurrell Mallock. Oh come on, I say to Phillips. It wasn’t really random. What if you’d picked up An Introduction to Macroeconomics? “I might have put it back and chosen something else.”
Phillips has done many things in his richly varied creative life – painted portraits of everyone from the Queen to Samuel Beckett to fatwa-era Salman Rushdie, written experimental music and sung with the likes of Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, illustrated his own translation of Dante’s Inferno, taught his Ipswich Art School student Brian Eno how to play piano tennis (which involved lining up pianos in a hall and throwing tennis balls at them). But nothing has been quite so absorbing as what has become known as A Humument (a truncation of Mallock’s original title).
The Humument project appealed to him because he’s a creature of odd, enduring habits. In the kitchen there are files of his collection of 50,000 postcards, which he plans to use in some forthcoming artwork. Elsewhere in this multistorey cabinet of curiosities that he and his second wife, Observer music critic Fiona Maddocks, call home are pots of mud from everywhere he has visited. There are also Mason jars of historical beard trimmings, some of which figured in his 1997 work The Artist Encounters His Younger Self, which consisted of two hair-covered skulls, one black, one white, presented as a reflection on ageing.
When he started mutilating Mallock in the mid-1960s, Phillips was on trend. Books really suffered at the hands of art world eviscerators. Joe Orton and his lover Kenneth Halliwell were jailed in 1962 for cutting up and rearranging the covers of Islington Library books to create erotically charged works of art. In 1966, at St Martin’s School of Art, John Latham invited his students to chew and spit out pages of critic Clement Greenberg’s Art and Culture, and then returned the masticated results to the college library. Creative destruction was the order of the day: taught by Gustav Metzger at Ealing Art College, the Who’s Pete Townshend was adhering to the tenets of auto-destructive art when trashing his guitars on stage.
Meanwhile, over in Peckham, Phillips cut, embellished, snipped, erased, painted over the threepenny paperback, though leaving some original text peeping through in curious bubble shapes. New characters would emerge as Phillips worked, such as one called Bill Toge whose surname, according to Phillips’s stipulation, could only appear on pages that originally contained words such as “together” or “altogether”. He showed early versions of the book he created to William Burroughs, the doyen of cut-up literary technique, who pronounced what he saw “a funny sort of science fiction”.
By 1969, Phillips had produced not just a sumptuous book version of A Humument, but had composed and performed an opera called Irma, inspired by passages from the text. “Mallock’s story is operatic,” he says. “And some of his original lines are very singable. So I made them sing.”
I get a sense of Phillips’s musical sensibility when, as we chat, he places on the table a special hourglass that he commissioned. Its blue sand takes precisely four minutes 33 seconds to fall – a homage to John Cage’s silent piece of music of the same duration. The late American composer was one of his heroes. Phillips, when he was teaching in the 60s, got him to lecture at Ipswich for a £40 fee and, indeed, Cage’s prepared pianos are clearly precursors of A Humument, which Phillips subtitled “a treated Victorian novel”.
In 1973, Irma mutated from opera to gouache, when Phillips painted a series of portraits of A Humument’s heroine called The Quest for Irma. She had become a creative imagining of the original character, a projection of the artist’s quest for unattainable beauty. In 1978, Eno produced a recording of Irma for Obscure Records directed by Gavin Bryars with a cast including composer-pianist Howard Skempton and Phillips himself.
Phillips continued to labour on A Humument, ultimately producing six different editions and an iPad app. In so doing, he inspired several artists, including Jonathan Safran Foer, whose 2015 cut-up book Tree of Codes did to Bruno Schulz’s The Street of Crocodiles what Phillips had done to Mallock. Phillips’s aim was never to obliterate the book; in fact, he has effectively retrieved it from obscurity. “What I bought for threepence would now cost you £300 on AbeBooks,” he says.
“I worked on A Humument for 50 years until I decided to stop last year.” Why stop then? “Well, I’d done two versions, each taking 25 years. I could imagine doing a third, but that would have taken another 25. So I’d be a dribbling 105-year-old. More likely dead, before I finished it. So it was time to stop.”
It must leave a hole in your life. “It is,” he concedes, “a melancholy thing.” After finishing A Humument, he was asked to be a Man Booker judge for this year’s prize. “The request came at the right time. I had to read 130 novels for the longlist, which took my mind off.” But if Phillips has let go of A Humument, it hasn’t finished with him. We are meeting because next month, two admirers of it, opera director and designer Netia Jones and experimental musician Anton Lukoszevieze will stage their interpretation of his opera Irma at the South London Gallery, round the corner from his home and where he first exhibited as a Camberwell Arts College student in the early 60s.
We walk to the gallery for lunch. Quite possibly we’re following the route he and Kitaj took all those years ago. Your manor’s changed since those days, I suggest. “Gentrification? That’s down to me,” he says. In 2000, he and fellow Peckham artist Antony Gormley worked on Southwark Council’s Peckham Renewal Project, designing lampposts, pavements and bollards for nearby Bellenden Road. He hands me a DVD, which turns out to be Jake Auerbach’s film record of Phillips’s annual pilgrimage: since 1973, each spring he’s walked a nine-mile circuit around his south London home taking photographs of 20 specific places to record how his neighbourhood has changed.
Phillips has never left this south London stomping ground for long. Born in 1937 in Clapham, he played bassoon and violin in his grammar school orchestra, studied English at Oxford and took life drawing lessons at Ruskin college. He taught English in Brixton while taking evening classes in life drawing from (Jake’s father) Frank Auerbach at Camberwell College for Arts. He taught at Wolverhampton and Ipswich, before being sucked back into SE15’s vortex. The house he lives in his mother bought in 1953 for £500 (her ashes are in a pot he designed under the ginkgo tree outside) – it’d sell for more than £1m now.
Restaurant staff at the gallery know Phillips well and serve him his favourite dish – Double Bubble (bubble and squeak artisanally reconstituted into what, in today’s Peckham, are probably called timbales) and red wine. It’s in the adjoining gallery that Phillips’s opera Irma will get its first multimedia performances. Visitors will be able to see an audiovisual installation during the day followed by hour-long evening performances.
Jones and Lukoszevieze are working from a graphic score Phillips made of the opera. Graphic notation, in case you’re wondering, is the representation of music through the use of visual symbols rather than traditional musical notation. Phillips’s graphic score, which started out as one sheet but in 2014 mushroomed into a lovely book, is a work of art in itself. “I’ve no idea what they will make of it,” he says.
“For me, Tom is the anti-Samuel Beckett,” says Jones. “Where Beckett tells the director exactly what to do, Tom just gives you suggestions and so utter freedom.” Lukoszevieze plans to perform Irma with singers, a piano quintet and a synthesiser. The cellist, artist and founder/director of the experimental music ensemble Apartment House will construct the performances as an hour-long palindrome, he explains, riffing on Phillips’s 1993 piece Palindrome. “The singers won’t be singing backwards but you’ll have the sense of everything coming back in the second half-hour. I’m not going to be adding any notes or pitches Tom hasn’t already written; I’ll just be arranging his notes in a certain order.” He is planning to include a segment from Wagner’s Ring cycle as a nod to A Humument as Phillips’s Gesamtkunstwerk.
As we walk back to his house for photographs, I ask Phillips if he would consider returning to portrait painting. “No. I did 100 portraits and that was enough. I loved a lot of it, painting people like Iris Murdoch. But, oh, painting captains of industry! Never again.” Enviably, for someone in his ninth decade, he is fired up with ideas. He’s seeking approval from TS Eliot’s estate to make an illustrated edition of The Waste Land for the Folio Society. He hopes some of his projects will outlive him and that his son will carry on his tradition of taking spring photographs of Peckham’s evolution. And that, fingers crossed, artists of the calibre of Jones and Lukoszevieze will continue to work on his masterpiece A Humument. “I’d like that,” he says.
10.10am, Zoo Southside (until 22 August)
Chris, an out-of-work plumber, starts an online relationship with data analyst Josh, who spends his spare time working for a charity that tells the truth about civilian casualties in Syria. The charity is short of cash and Josh has found a way to make money on the dark web. Soon Chris is involved too. But, even if it’s for a good cause, does the end always justify the means? The production may be basic but the knottiness of Rory Horne’s writing keeps you gripped in this thriller, which reminds us we all have blood on our hands. Smart young writing. LG
11am, Pleasance at EICC (until 27 August)
It may be aimed at two- to five-year-olds, but the clowning is terrific for any age group in this whimsical silent show about a pair of bears who want to reach the golden star they had in their grasp, but which floated away. The bears are endearingly lovable and incompetent as they grapple with their problem – failing and failing better before they finally get blast-off. Lovely work. LG
11.45am, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
Original family shows are a rarity, and this one – a deliciously eccentric plea to save the bees – is a pleasure for all ages. Bossy Josie and her friends are having a party as part of a campaign to help the bees, who are so small that their importance is over-looked. I caught This Egg’s debut show, Googles, last year, and it’s great to see this fresh-faced company developing their quirky comic style and putting it to good use for both insects and young audiences. LG
12.20pm, Assembly George Square (until 27 August)
Jazz is “the only black in the village”. Best friend Brogan (“I’m not racist, I get a Chinky every Friday”) provides the friendship that stops her feeling isolated, but when the former hooks up with a new boyfriend things take a turn for the worse. Jazz knows she needs to get out of Somerset and see the world. Natasha Marshall’s debut show, which she also performs solo, is a little cracker: full of fierce wit and neat observations about village life and what being a best mate really means. LG
1.25pm, Roundabout @ Summerhall (until 26 August)
When Rebecca and Paul arrive at a remote country cottage for a few days in an attempt to repair their marriage, the first thing they notice is the Stephen King novels in the bookcase. They should probably turn around and go straight back home, but they don’t, and soon Rebecca says they are being watched. They are. Paul’s former lover, Helen, is in the vicinity. James Grieve’s production of Brad Birch’s play for Paines Plough racks up the tension as Rebecca tries to make Paul feel her pain in a revenge drama with a twist. LG
1.25pm, Roundabout @Summerhall (until 27 August)
There’s more than a touch of Elena Ferrante’s stories of female friendship in Elinor Cook’s play, which spans more than 30 years and follows the relationship between best friends Lorna and Grace Grace is the sparkier, but when she gets pregnant it is Lorna who goes out into the world beyond to make her mark. Cook writes with beady-eyed awareness about opportunity and social mobility, and how so many women’s lives are still defined by men. But it is brilliant, sensitive and sometimes raw too on rapport between women too, the jealousies as well as the enduring love. LG
2.15pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
It was the prawns that did it. At least that’s what W, a police officer, claims when she throws up while attending an incident following a suicide. But maybe the trigger was that earlier event, which brings back the memories and makes W confront her own hurt, bafflement and anger over her beloved brother’s death. Nicola Wren’s deft monologue, which she performs herself, is effective because it is so understated and matter-of-fact. Its emotional impact creeps up on you, because it’s only as W faces up to the past that she starts to see how she has been crippled by unacknowledged grief. It’s great to see DugOut theatre company pulling heartstrings and not just hitting funny bones, and Wren is a talent to watch. LG
2.30pm, Summerhall (until 26 August)
Selina Thompson’s one-woman show retraces the transatlantic slave triangle from Britain to Ghana to Jamaica and back. This piece is about a personal journey Thompson made, but it is also about the journeys of millions of black men, women and children. They were sold in the slave trade on which the wealth of Europe was built, providing the foundations of its economic success today. On a cargo ship to Ghana, Thompson encounters contemporary racism: cruel, casual, completely normalised. At the former trading fort of Elmina castle, Ghana, she stands before the Gate of No Return that faces the Atlantic ocean. Salt is haunted by absence – of the many who died in Elmina, during their voyages and on the plantations – that the traumas of the past become palpably present. LGRead the full four-star review
2.40pm, Summerhall (until 13 August)
Remember that childhood game where you have to make it across the floor without your feet touching the ground, or the sharks will get you? Maybe that’s what it feels like to be a young person entering the adult world – particularly the world of work. This terrific piece, from the Young Vic Taking Part department and writer James Fritz, feels like a cross between a particularly nasty gameshow, a malicious Alice in Wonderland and a Kafkaesque nightmare as the youngsters try to work out the rules and stay alive. Great participatory work. Great work, full stop. LG
3pm, Underbelly Cowgate (until 27 August)
When a man’s body was found on Saddleworth Moor in 2015, 40 people came forward claiming he was the missing relative they were looking for. The young man at the heart of Max Dickins’ finely crafted monologue is one of them. His dad took him to school one morning when the boy was 10 but he never came home again. For 20 years the young man has wondered at and obsessed over what happened to his father. Every year in the UK, some 2,000 people go missing and never return. This show entwines fact and fiction, not always comfortably but to good emotional effect, to tell what it feels like to be left behind, the unknowability of even those we love the most, and the stories we tell to comfort ourselves. LG
3.15pm, Dance Base (until 27 August)
Kuo-Shin Chuang’s minimalist but intensely felt work for Pangcah Dance theatre is rooted in the folk culture of rural Taiwan. Its concerns, however, are those of the restless, rootless 21st century as it addresses the core of yearning that’s carried within those who’ve migrated far from home. Nine women, uniformly dressed in grey smocks, are bunched in close-knit formations: shuffling, sprinting, sometimes lined up on chairs as the insistent chug of an electronic score drives them forward on some unspecified journey. The closing image, a clustering group embrace, has a piercing quality of nostalgia. JMRead the review
5pm, Underbelly Cowgate (until 27 August)
A gentle but seductive introduction to the Saturday Night Live writer’s talents, this fringe debut finds Julio Torres sitting at a desk, introducing us (via live feed to an upstage screen) to his favourite shapes and trinkets: jewellery, Ferrero-Rocher wrappers, tiny toy birds. For each one, Torres narrates a kooky story or personality: “This one is Eddie Redmayne”, and so on. Imagine the blissed-out stylings of Demetri Martin mixed with Will Adamsdale’s packaging fetish, and you’re getting there – but Torres brings a whole outsider perspective of his own, as a “queer vegan immigrant” (he’s El Salvadorean) drolly aware that he’s every Trump supporter’s worst nightmare made flesh. BL
5.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
Best newcomer buzz swirls around this conventional debut hour, which introduces Pattison to audiences, tells her tale of heartbreak - then delivers redemption. I found that ending a bit trite, but there’s no gainsaying Pattison’s standup abilities. She’s fast, forthright and filthy after the Millican fashion, but more vulnerable than her fellow Geordie. The show’s about her body image issues and her efforts to recover confidence after being “ghosted” by her ex. She’s got some good gags about her own booziness (“I had a bottle of prosecco on the tube as an amuse-bouche”) – although, by telling us that everyone in Newcastle is tough and alcoholic, she overplays that hand. You can see why there’s a fuss though: she’s got the chops. BL
6.30pm, Upper Church @ Summerhall (until 27 August)
Remember the 2008 financial crash? Sure, we’re all up to speed on how it happened, aren’t we? We are completely confident it couldn’t happen again – right? In this 90-minute interactive show from those tricky theatrical customers Ontroerend Goed, you’ll discover more about the financial markets and how they operate than you ever thought possible, and you get to play them. The piece’s tight structure has its frustrations, but it gives an utterly fascinating glimpse into human behaviour and greed. I walked away with £45m. Do I feel guilty? Hell, no. That’s the beauty of it. LG
6.30pm, Summerhall (until 26 August)
Graeae, a company led by people with disabilities, had a hit in 2015 with The Solid Life of Sugar Water, and there’s lots to like about their production of Jackie Hagan’s two-hander, set in the new town of Skelmersdale. Hagan offers a warts-and-all portrait of a place hit by the double whammy of recession and the Tory government’s austerity policies, where everyone has a nickname, from Posh Anne to Dufflecoat Dave. For all its beady-eyed honesty, this is a story told with a fierce, exasperated love for the people and the place. It’s also the tale of an oddball friendship. LGRead the full three-star review
7pm, Underbelly Circus Hub (until 26 August)
There are humans, and then there are the performers in Australian circus Circa. Over the years, they have proved themselves superhuman with their extraordinary physical feats. This seamless crowd-pleaser full of slick, dizzying tricks played out on a largely bare stage shows them testing the limits of the human body. It’s mightily impressive but a wee bit cold, with the personalities of the performers subjugated to the feat itself as bodies become impossibly twisted and defy the rules of gravity. LG
7pm, Pleasance Dome (until 27 August)
Cinderella can’t touch this. Two years ago, Dave Johns was about to quit standup after 30 years and start selling donkey rides. Then Ken Loach came calling about the lead role in his new film. The rest is movie history: I, Daniel Blake – Loach’s film about benefit cuts – won 23 awards internationally, turned the tide of Britain’s political conversation, and changed Johns’ life. Our host has got an incredible rags-to-riches story to tell, and does so in this fringe return with humility, starry eyes and unpretentious good humour. BLRead the full three-star review
7pm, Festival theatre (until 12 August)
When is a performance of an opera in the theatre not a production? The answer, at least according to conductor Ivan Fischer, is when it is a staged concert. Fischer and the Budapest Festival Orchestra previously presented his singular vision of the Marriage of Figaro in Edinburgh two years ago. I recall this as being full of energy and humour, with the orchestra literally at the front and centre of the stage, and at the very heart of the drama. Fischer and his orchestra return to Edinburgh with another Mozart/Da Ponte opera with Fischer once again in the dual role of conductor and director. RSRead the full three-star review
7.25pm, Assembly George Square (until 27 August)
Henry Cyril Paget, the fifth Marquis of Anglesey, was born a winner. He had every advantage and a fortune. But he was a loser in the eyes of his kin, who tried to erase him from the family history. This is his revenge – using the theatre and the spectacle he so adored. Seiriol Davies’ whip-smart, opera-style extravaganza is an off-the-wall and very tongue-in-cheek celebration of sequins, difference and narcissism, and the pleasures and pitfalls of turning life into one big performance. LG
7.30pm, Summerhall (until 26 August)
Is it possible for us to understand someone else’s pain, to really feel how they do? Director Rachel Bagshaw tries to do just that in this unique, disconcerting and always compelling show. Put together with care and intelligence by Bagshaw and writer Chris Thorpe, it becomes an unexpected thing of beauty. There are times when the sound composition and design (by Melanie Wilson) and the video and lighting design (by Joshua Pharo) collide in such intense and surprising ways that it feels as if we are immersed in pain itself. LGRead the full four-star review
8pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
Festival favourite Morpurgo returns with another sui generis offering, here spoofing the conventions of the post-show Q&A. It begins when “the show” ends. The fictional Joseph Morpurgo, actor-impresario extraordinaire, has just presented his one-man Frankenstein – playing all 85 characters himself, in 12 different languages, over nine hours. Now he’s back for a post-show discussion with the audience and correspondents online. Morpurgo’s main target is the brittle actorly ego, provoked to distraction whenever conversation drifts from the subject of his own genius. The portrait of a thespian in personal and professional freefall isn’t subtly done, but this is an uproariously silly show, stuffed with so many jokes both on screen and on stage that you could watch it twice and not stop laughing. BLRead the full four-star review
8pm, Dance Base (until 27 August)
What kind of a play might Shakespeare have written if Lady Macbeth, rather than her husband, had been given the leading role? This is the premise of Kally Lloyd-Jones’s bold and haunting new work, in which she tries to imagine the full story of a woman so deprived of purpose, so hell-bent on vicarious power, that she will goad her husband to commit regicide. The contradictions that Shakespeare sketched into Lady Macbeth’s character between her hard “masculine” ambition and her “feminine” conscience are elegantly fleshed out by Lloyd-Jones, who not only divides the role between three dancers but casts them with men. A fascinating if desolate afterlife for one of Shakespeare’s most frustratingly underwritten antiheroines. JMRead the full four-star review
8pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
In telling the stories of two gay men and their community of friends, 201 Dance Company’s 2015 work Smother staked out significant new ground for hip-hop. With Skin, choreographer Andrea Walker tackles even more demanding material, charting the story of one child’s journey towards gender transition. This is a theme that’s currently blowing through the theatrical zeitgeist, but the challenge of navigating its psychological and political intricacies is a particularly tricky one for pure dance. As cleverly as it sketches the narrative basics, as fine and committed as its dancers are, Skin doesn’t quite develop into a fully felt or fully imagined drama. JMRead the full three-star review
8pm, Underbelly Cowgate (until 27 August)
Adam Riches is the most notorious exponent of the in-vogue art of audience participation; Aussie act Steen Raskopoulos is closing in and returns (after a best newcomer nomination in 2014) with another neatly constructed set. It’s good fun, at least in proportion to the enthusiasm of Raskopoulos’s volunteers (and I use that word loosely). Audience members are press-ganged on stage, to be buyers at prospective house purchase, or a misbehaving office worker obliged to perform an interpretative dance. But the material isn’t quite proof against an audience member’s shyness, nor safe enough to let participation-phobes like me relax in our seats. BLRead the full three-star review
8.15pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
Even at a festival where comedians routinely tackle thorny subjects,the matter of Kiri Pritchard-McLean’s new show feels unlikely: Appropriate Adult is about her volunteer work with vulnerable children. It chronicles her mentoring relationship with one 15-year-old girl, including reflections on her own maternal instinct and the millennial generation’s refusal to reproduce. Pritchard-McLean has form in tackling uncomfortable topics: her 2016 fringe debut addressed the vexed question of sexism in comedy. That show was good; this one’s better. Pritchard-McLean’s confidence and craft and has come on in bounds, and her new set is packed with laughs and not short of narrative incident. BLRead the full four-star review
8.15pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 27 August)
He doesn’t use a mic, he’s got an unnerving stare, he wants to talk to you about bed-wetting. Yup, there’s not much to distinguish Sean Patton’s show from a hostage situation. Just the laughs, of which there are plenty, as the New Orleans man delivers a striking autobiographical set structured around his various OCD tics. There’s considerable authority and a sense of controlled wildness to Patton’s delivery, as he recounts an encounter with a philosophic flasher, a spring break gone wrong, and his family’s dramatic brush with Hurricane Katrina. An impressive hour of storytelling and no-frills standup by turns, from a man whose tooth-brushing techniques alone, he tells us, are keeping the asteroids at bay. BL
8.30pm, Gilded Balloon Teviot (until 13 August)
“Hilarious characters with rich, complex inner lives”, says the publicity – to which this fringe debut from US comic and improviser Andy Daly doesn’t even try to live up. It’s a fun hour though, in which the Comedy Bang Bang man performs as three broad, loosely inhabited characters, and takes questions from the floor. Dalton Wilcox is a “cowboy-poet” plagued by vampires and with a lyrical flair to rival McGonagall’s. Don DiMello is a croaking impresario who directs deviant children’s theatre. L Ron Hubbard is … well, you know that one, but you’d never have imagined him as chirpy and guileless as this. It’s all lively good fun, and Daly is skilled and at ease in the audience interactions which form a substantial portion of the show. BL
8.45pm, Heroes @ The Hive (until 27 August)
Sincerity and self-disclosure are the new comedy virtues, according to Ewins. Well, his show Adventureman 7 (don’t ask) might just be good enough to propel sheer idiocy back into fashion. It’s an absolute hoot, a DIY Indiana Jones spoof constructed from digital animations, good-natured crowd interaction and a droopy stick-on moustache. A winning silliness predominates: an Egyptian streetscape fleetingly forms the face of a Chuckle brother. What’s impressive is the volume as well as the unexpectedness of the jokes: there are hidden jokes and jokes-in-passing, as if every jokeless moment has been rigorously weeded out. BL Read the full four-star review
8.50pm, C Chambers Street (until 28 August)
This is what the fringe is for: to shine a light on theatre practice across the globe. In this case, Korea, which has a significant presence at this year’s festival. Bet it’s not all like this version of Medea, produced in a series of wildly different styles, from a press conference in which the hacks nudge Medea towards revenge, to a final cop-show shootout in which she is the only one left standing. It’s often quite mad (a group of American students got the giggles on the night I was there), and frequently so culturally dislocating that it’s hard to get a handle on, but at times it’s also illuminating. Anyone up for watching Medea and Jason’s encounter played out like The Jeremy Kyle Show? LG
9.30pm, Canada Hub at Kings Hall (until 27 August)
It’s 1908 and Jewish-Romanian refugees Chaya and Chaim meet on Pier 2 in Halifax Nova Scotia. She lost her husband to typhus somewhere in Russia on the long journey to Canada; he lost his entire family in a pogrom. Can they be happy together or does so much suffering make happiness impossible? The title of this neatly put-together show, threaded through with haunting klezmer melodies in which joy and sorrow swirl around each other, has a double meaning: those grandparents and great grandparents who came before us, and Canada’s old stock, who objected to the influx of Jews. It’s a hugely engaging experience and one that puts the audience on the spot: when there is a knock in the night, do you open the door? LG
9.15pm, Summerhall (until 27 August)
Think boobs, cascading blonde curls and rhinestones and you think Dolly Parton. But what is it that makes Dolly Dolly? What makes us all unique? Sh!t Theatre set out to discover in typically off the wall, wonky style with a show that they big up as “our main-stage crossover hit” and which encompasses the world’s first clone, Dolly the sheep, a trip to the tacky world of Dollywood and a visit to Tennessee’s body farm, where bodies are left to decay for forensic study. The show doesn’t quite deliver the laughs of their previous work but it’s an enjoyable meditation on how we represent ourselves to the world, both on stage and off. LG
9.20pm, EICC (9 and 20-24 August)
If you thought Frankie Boyle’s monologues on his recent BBC show New World Order were too mild, this is the show for you. Repeatedly in Prometheus Volume 1 – receiving a handful of performances on the fringe – Boyle tells us this or that joke was censored from TV. And you can believe him. This is an hour of terrifically brutal material and one only hopes the man has a strong mouthwash on hand backstage. But it’s wickedly funny. Boyle is in the meanest streak of his career – the gags are still ruthlessly well honed, but the targets are more deserving and there’s a radical worldview to back up the radical insensitivity. BLRead the full four-star review
9.30pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 27 August)
There must be half a dozen future fringe shows bursting to get out of Harriott’s maiden hour. He’s got a lot of life experience to draw on: drug-dealing relatives (“My family tree is a cannabis plant”), dad’s suicide in prison, Rastafarian inheritance, a former career as a bouncer. But the smiley Birmingham man keeps it light in Defiant, which ranges across all of the above and much more besides. From Black Lives Matter to Brexit, from al-Qaeda (“Where are they now?”) to the gender pay gap, this Brummie cheeky-chappy makes light but seldom trivial work of some big-hitting subjects. “All these different genders,” he jokes. “That’s really going to ruin the game Guess Who?” We’ll be seeing more of him. BL
9.30pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
From a performer whose force of personality is her USP, Jayde Adams’ show is machine-tooled to engineer supportive whoops from the crowd. As for laughs? Well, there are plenty, generated more by Adams’s outrageous behaviour (her mannerisms, her vocal tics, her antics onstage) than by joke-writing flair. She provides, in short, entertaining company, as she dragoons an audience member on stage to undertake a “best-friend test”, or struggles to practise tai chi while being endlessly interrupted by a beeping phone. BLRead the full three-star review
9.45pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 27 August)
Rose Matafeo has watched a lot of romcoms, and decided that she’s classic “sassy best friend” material – hence the title of this new show. But what does that mean, and is it a good thing to be? A year on from the New Zealander’s whirlwind fringe debut with Finally Dead, this latest offering interrogates – with the lightest of touches – the personalities on offer to women, and one way in particular that those personalities can be tampered with. BLRead the full four-star review
10.20pm, Pleasance Courtyard (until 28 August)
Gein’s are sketch purists, apparently, never using lights, sound, or accents. So it’s intriguingly unclear where sketches begin and end and when we’re back in the moment, watching simpering Ed Easton and grumpy Kath Hughes play “who would you rather fuck?” with the audience, strangle one another in the name of jewellery, or shed clothes dementedly under siege from an imaginary bee. BLRead the full four-star review
10.30pm, The Hub (until 27 August)
Whether she is clutching a blow-up doll replica of herself or being hoisted above the stage, Meow Meow’s enjoyable tongue-in-cheek evening uses cabaret and torch songs to slyly subvert the myth of enduring romantic love. The great Australian diva sends herself up mercilessly and ponders a life spent “not waving but clowning”. Haven’t we all, darling? This is clowning around, but there isn’t a red nose in sight – only sequins and glitter, as the chanteuse delivers songs and dismantles Hans Christian Andersen’s unlovely story about the mermaid who so loves a prince that she’s prepared to give up her voice for him. LGRead the full three-star review
10.30pm, Studio (until 27 August)
Turner prize-winner Martin Creed’s impish sense of humour and refusal to take himself too seriously inform this 80 minutes in which he sings some of his songs, shows us some of his art, and wrestles with words and feelings. It’s clearly complicated being inside Creed’s head, a place where he sometimes goes to parties, meets himself, holds conversations in which he doesn’t understand anything he says, and is held hostage by his emotions. The artist’s thoughts and murmurings veer from the inconsequential to the profound as he attempts to find the perfect alignment of words and music to express how he feels. It’s endearing, exposing, ticklish and so totally unassuming that it’s hard to resist. LGRead the full four-star review
Traverse (until 27 August)
Three backsides are perched on a trestle table. They’re talking to us: quoting from ignorant reviews and commentating on their own show as a sneering critic might. Might Adrienne Truscott, Ursula Martinez and Zoe Coombs Marr be telling us that critics talk out of their arses? Wild Bore explores the relationship between artists and critics. Who sets the aesthetic rules? Who has the last word? What gives one way of seeing any authority over others? It is an exercise in scrambling the search for meaning, and it delights in upending our expectations and making improbable things happen. One scene finds the trio stuffing food into their arse-faces, another puts Truscott on Coombs Marr’s shoulders and dresses them both as an anchovy, and by the end they’re all circuiting the stage, nude, with a transgender Asian performance artist in hot pursuit. It’s a caper, in other words, but one underpinned by fierce intelligence and an urge to complicate and democratise the standards by which theatre is judged. BLRead the review
Traverse (until 27 August)
Think of Pygmalion and then queer it, play with gender and colonialism and throw in some pink mud, lots of camp and some Victorian mutton chops and you have a flavour of this show from Australian company Sisters Grimm. When a wild creature, apparently found with a pride of lions in the wilds of Borneo, is delivered to the Dutch hospital run by Dr Penworth (Hot Brown Honey’s Candy Bowers), lobotomy is the intention. But language – which eventually proves so slippery – saves the creature who Penworth designates as female despite a visible penis. There’s lots going on here – perhaps too much for it all to land – but this comic mashup is very sure of its own aesthetic as it reminds us that some of our attitudes to race and gender are still stuck in the 19th century. LG
Pleasance Courtyard (until 27 August)
Sara Pascoe’s Edinburgh fringe return marks a departure from the shows that made her name, chronicling her efforts to be happily single after the breakup of a four-year relationship. It’s still whipsmart and winningly funny, as Pascoe overthinks and overshares in the name of our entertainment. After last Christmas is reduced to a tear-stained mess, Pascoe escapes to a yoga retreat in Costa Rica, and then to Paris on Valentine’s Day, where the city of love is revealed, sans lover, to be the city of nothing very exciting happening. It may be a looser and less intellectual construction than Pascoe’s comedy lectures on pair bonding or Nietzschean philosophy, but this show communicates a keen sense of a woman reborn, at an all-bets-are-off time of her life, luxuriating in her skills and enjoying her comedy. BLRead the full four-star review
Traverse (until 27 August)
All fans think their relationship with their idol is unique, but for the teenager at the heart of Gary McNair’s first-person monologue, fandom is a matter of life and death. When his school counsellor tells him to find someone he can talk to, the boy chooses the singer once voted the second greatest living cultural icon after David Attenborough and ahead of Paul McCartney. His appeal? “He dared us not to fit in.” So begins an entirely one-sided correspondence. But can Morrissey deliver the answer to the question that the teenage McNair so desperately seeks? LGRead the full three-star review
Traverse @ Codebase (until 27 August)
The summer when Meera was 11, she formed a friendship with the town’s bad girl, Ashleigh. For the last 20 years, she has tried to put what happened to Ashleigh that summer out of her mind, but when a stolen boat is found on the coral reef, Meera has to confront the past. Curious Directive have come up with a novel way for the audience to experience the past, too: as this thriller unfolds, we don VR glasses and the years – and the undersea coral reefs –come vividly to life. A wee bit contrived story-wise, but still gripping stuff. LG
When Benjamin Clementine eventually pads on stage barefoot and perches on a high stool at his grand piano, it’s in complete darkness that has descended on the theatre long enough to leave audience members sniggering in discomfort. But even without the preceding half-hour delay caused by technical issues, this show would have felt fantastically awkward.
It’s the first live airing in Britain of songs from Clementine’s second album due for release in September, I Tell a Fly, a rumination on migrants, refugees and displacement, musically inspired by Erik Satie and Isao Tomita. It may confound anyone looking for more of the dramatically surging torch songs that characterised his Mercury prize-winning debut, At Least for Now.
Backed by a three-piece band in blue boiler suits, and behind them a five-strong female chorus in white boiler suits who dance theatrically during the uptempo bits – all of them barefoot, too – when the ex-homeless troubadour breaks into his first song By the Ports of Europe, a baroque pop oddity with the feel of an avant-garde musical number, it’s with sweeping grace and gravitas. With its mannered singing and celestial references to an “alien passing by wishing everyone peace”, Jupiter can’t help but invoke Bowie; Awkward Fish could be Kid A Radiohead sung by Anohni, underpinned by a splintered drum beat, bassline and ambient drones.
And yet the music is sharply juxtaposed throughout the evening with weird and funny conversational tangents. It’s hard to tell if Clementine, dressed in a ruffled lace cape, is squirming with nerves or simply enjoying throwing his public off balance. For a man who speaks so softly it’s as if he’s scared of his own voice – and who sings as if he’s trying to rip his voice in two – Clementine speaks a lot, including ad-libbing over the closing bars of Paris Cor Blimey about how the delay at the start sapped his adrenaline and now he’s scared we’ll “tell people I’m shit”.
His fans like to speak back, too. One man holds up the show to give a lengthy explanation of how Clementine “resonates” with him, at the end of which the singer deadpans: “Anyone else?” Later there’s a hilariously bizarre passage in which a woman persistently insists on telling Clementine she’s from Aberfeldy, to which Clementine responds by improvising a song in her honour that goes on longer than it probably should.
Perhaps inevitably, all the hold-ups lead to his set being cut short. But not before I Won’t Complain has delivered the kind of majestic, stripped-back, tremblingly beautiful moment most people probably came expecting more of, and Ave Dreamer has dispatched a last flourish of harpsichord and lush choral exuberance. They earn this rare, unvarnished and unpredictable artist the standing ovation he deserves.
During his five years as director of the Victoria and Albert Museum, Martin Roth put the London institution on the international stage, travelling tirelessly as its “ambassador”. His resignation last September – greeted with widespread surprise – was prompted to a significant extent by his disappointment at Britain’s referendum decision the previous June to leave the EU.
Full of his usual energy, he left London with ambitious plans to become more involved in global issues. However, only a few weeks later he was diagnosed with cancer, from which he has died, aged 62.
Well known on the museum scene in his native Germany, Roth had a low profile in Britain, and his appointment to the V&A had also been greeted with surprise. His personality and approach to leadership turned out to be very different from that of his predecessor, the more scholarly Sir Mark Jones.
Always impeccably dressed, Roth enjoyed mixing with figures of international standing to advance the causes of cultural exchange and what he declared to be “the world’s leading museum of art and design”. Confident and forthright, he enjoyed controversy and debate.
Under his stewardship the V&A prospered, with visitor numbers rising to 3.5m, and in 2016 it won the Art Fund museum of the year award. There was a string of highly popular exhibitions, including David Bowie Is (also seen in 10 other countries); Alexander McQueen: Savage Beauty; and Disobedient Objects, on design and social change.
Roth oversaw building work on a £50m extension on Exhibition Road with a new entrance and underground temporary exhibition gallery, which opened to applause in June. V&A-branded galleries are also nearing completion in Shenzhen (in China, on the border with Hong Kong, opening in December) and Dundee (due for 2018). Roth’s most ambitious legacy may well be a branch of the V&A in east London, a massive new gallery building planned for the former Olympic site and set to open in 2021.
On his arrival at the V&A, Roth instituted management changes to make the museum more efficient. This initially created difficulties with both trustees and staff. Feelings among curators remained mixed during his tenure, unsurprisingly in a museum with wide collecting fields. Some curators outside the performance and fashion collections felt that the V&A’s traditional focus on the decorative and fine arts was being sidelined in favour of blockbuster shows.
When Roth was away he left much of the administration to his deputy, Tim Reeve, who recalled working with him as being “scary, fun, exhilarating... encouraging us all to take risks, to search for the new, the different, the alternative”. Reeve came to think of him as a friend, “sometimes infuriating, but mostly inspiring”.
When Roth decided to leave, he made a clean break with the museum. As he told me in an interview: “It’s like a love affair. Once you split, you don’t want to share the kitchen table.” A month after the announcement, he moved to Berlin, where he had been offered the post of president of Germany’s Institute for Foreign Relations, which deals with cultural exchanges. Though his health was deteriorating, Roth took up the post at the start of July.
He was born in Stuttgart: his mother was a tailor and his father an electrician. For his doctorate at the Eberhard Karls University in Tübingen (1987), he wrote a thesis on museums and cultural politics in Germany from 1871 to the end of the Third Reich. Then he did research at the Maison des Sciences de l’Homme in Paris and the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. After serving from 1989 as a curator at the German Historical Museum in Berlin, he moved to Dresden in 1991, just after the country was reunified, to become director of the German Hygiene Museum, an important medical museum with popular appeal. From 1996 he helped develop the 2000 Hanover Expo, and he served as president of the German Museums Association (1995-2003).
Roth’s big break came in 2001, when he was appointed director general of the Dresden State Art Collections, which comprises 12 museums. The city had suffered terribly from Allied bombing during the second world war, so this was an another ever-present reminder of the effects of conflict. One year later he faced the challenge of dealing with a catastrophic flood of the River Elbe and its tributaries. After the initial rescue operation of the Dresden artworks, he oversaw the construction of a safe storage facility as part of the renovated Albertinum gallery.
When Roth left Dresden, it was to go to the V&A. He told me that moving on from the latter came partly because of the referendum result. That was “just an element, but definitely an element”. Roth was characteristically outspoken in his comments: “Brexit was about telling people lies, Little England coming back, new nationalism returning to Europe, xenophobia, hate crimes.” Brexit strengthened his determination to return to Berlin and become more politically engaged. Roth was very disturbed by the recent rise of nationalism and racial tensions throughout Europe, and he saw cultural ties as way of bringing peoples together and fighting hatred. He was determined to use his new post at the Institute for Foreign Relations to make the organisation more of “an art and culture mediator”.
In May, however, Roth became embroiled in controversy when he co-curated the Azerbaijan pavilion at the Venice Biennale, with critics pointing to its government’s poor human rights record. Although admitting to some regrets over his involvement, Roth maintained that “the art world also needs to talk to regimes it opposes”.
He is survived by his wife Harriet (nee Hauger), a son and two daughters.Martin Bailey
Hella Pick writes: Martin Roth was a citizen of the world, a convinced European and a German who felt deeply about the need to redeem the Holocaust. He was an imaginative and enterprising practitioner of cultural diplomacy who passionately believed that the great public museums not only have an educational role but can help to build bridges across political divides.
Both as director of the Dresden State galleries and more recently at the V&A, Martin reached out to the wider world. While at Dresden he developed close links with the Pushkin State Museum of Fine Arts in Moscow and its director, Irina Antonova. His diplomatic skills led among much else to an exhibition in the National Museum of China, in Beijing, dedicated to the Enlightenment – an extraordinary achievement which nevertheless caused considerable controversy in Germany. Roth’s critics argued that he had betrayed the cause of human rights.
I first met Martin when he participated in an arts conference organised by Lord Weidenfeld’s Institute for Strategic Dialogue, where he delivered a paper that argued for closer cooperation between national museums. This led both to collaboration over a number of arts-related conferences in Dresden and once in New York, and above all to a close friendship.
His achievements in restoring Dresden’s collections to their full glory reached their peak with the reopening of the Grünes Gewölbe (Green Vault), Europe’s greatest collection of treasures. But he was equally proud when the restored Türckische Kammer (Turkish Chamber) was reopened, accompanied by a conference on the Ottoman influence on Germany and how it related to the country’s large present-day Turkish community.
Martin was immensely proud when he was invited to take charge of the V&A, though I remember that one of his first concerns was whether British Jews would find it difficult to see a German at the helm of such a national institution. He had many plans for his post-V&A life, not least that he would be able to spend more time with Harriet, who fully supported his work even though it meant that he was so often away. He had hoped to play an active role in the strengthening of the European project while maintaining his links with the museum world. When the Roths left London last year they were convinced of a new lease of fulfilling life. It was sadly not to be.
• Martin Roth, museum director, born 16 January 1955; died 6 August 2017
TRACK OF THE WEEK
Young, sure: at 19, Khalid Robinson is a goddamn millennial falcon. But the former army brat with the wistful R&B croon certainly isn’t dumb, and if he keeps putting out songs as good as this hummable humdinger, won’t ever be broke, either. More decrepit listeners might detect echoes of the Cure’s Close to Me amid Young Dumb & Broke’s palliative organ spiral, but that just adds to the bittersweet vibe of taken-for-granted golden years turning to ash.
FOB have been gearing up for that notoriously difficult third post-reformation album since recent single Young and Menace – a catastrophic excursion into EDM histrionics – saw them seemingly short-circuit their emotional GPS. Thankfully, Pete Wentz and co are back on track with Champion, a gritted-teeth tale of triumph via masochistic endurance, built on some road-tested riffage.
Anyone who has accidentally handed over their Tesco Clubcard at the Waitrose checkout while trying to claim a free latte knows that loyalty can be a slippery philosophical concept. Who better to debate the pros and cons than RiRi and Ken? The volcanically hot pair fluidly fence over a nervy, serpentine slow jam created, remarkably, by someone putting Bruno Mars’s cheerfully facile 24k Magic through a digital spiralizer.
Turns out the word “twerk” sounds a lot more appealing in Portuguese. In what feels like a rather opportunistic attempt to either slipstream or eclipse the world-gobbling Despacito, Diplo drafts in Brazilian pop star Anitta and drag queen Pabllo Vittar to add some fire emoji to the latest in Major Lazer’s production line of future-hedonism floorfillers, complete with dancehall stomps and nose-flute solo.
More of a shy “still here!” wave than booming “we’re back!” statement, this appealing curio from the indie leviathans takes its sweet time to get going, though the relative novelty of hearing the patron saints of Breton T-shirts and library cards unleash a breakbeat will likely get you past its dreamy longueurs to what’s a pretty kickass chorus.
I’d been going to carnival since I was on my grandad’s shoulders. This was my first and only time in the parade; I was about eight years old and we’d not long moved into Lancaster West – one of the big new blocks, right next to Grenfell Tower.
Growing up, carnival was the highlight of my year. I remember the excitement of waiting for it to start up; hearing the floats from a distance, the sound getting louder and louder until you were drenched in colour and sound and people smiling and dancing. You got lost in the happiness. Carnival was for the community – and the kids – in those days. People were poor but they were happy and it was an excuse for a big party.
There was a lady, Sylvia, who used to organise the kids for the parade. She made the costumes herself. This day, about 50 of us were dressed as Johnnie Walker, from the whisky bottle. I loved the white satin tourers and red jacket. We took turns to rest on the truck. The photo is taken at the corner of Lancaster Road and Portobello Road during one of many standstills. We congregated outside our flats and got in line to follow the truck, which played calypso music. Back then, they strung out the parade for six or eight hours, so it was a long day.
I had no idea about the riots that took place later that day. I felt none of the tension. We were indoors by the time trouble started. It’s only as I got older that I remember kids coming from outside the area, causing trouble.
As Notting Hill got richer, the local feel got lost. Carnival didn’t feel like ours any more. Roads were closed off and curfews put in place. It’s beige now – it lost its colour, its soul. It became big and commercial although there are still pockets where the community really parties.
As adults, my friend and I would open our houses, cook jerk chicken, rice and peas and watch the parade from the balcony. I went every year until 2005, when I moved out of the area. I still cook Caribbean food on carnival weekend.
I first saw this photo in a magazine. Later, when I Googled it, I put in “white girl at carnival” and it came straight up. I look so much like a minority but that was never the case. Growing up in 1970s Notting Hill, I didn’t see colour at all. I grew up with Moroccans, Spanish, Portuguese and West Indian families living next to each other. The kids in this photo were my friends; kids I went to school with. One of them, Roger (in the middle), became a teenage sweetheart.
I’ve not been since 2010 but my heart is still there and I miss it. My mum and niece live there and we had friends and family caught up in the Grenfell fire. People from outside the area have suggested carnival shouldn’t go ahead because of it but I think they’re wrong.
I went to visit in the days after the fire. Latimer Road was heaving with people hugging and talking. We held a candlelit vigil and people were singing gospel. This is a tight-knit community. Carnival this year will be very special and very emotional. We are mourning but I think it can be a small part of the healing process, to honour the people we lost and celebrate those who helped. Maybe, this year, it will belong to the community, as it did all those years ago.
• Are you in a notable photograph? Email thatsme@theguardian.com
Interludes on US rap and R&B albums used to involve “hilarious” voicemail recordings, breathy come-ons or – as on Ludacris’s 2003 opus Chicken-n-Beer – an automated menu offering niche advice: “If you woke up with a hangover and a pair of hairy balls on your forehead, press #7.” The rise of consumer cherry-picking facilitated by streaming has curtailed the often-skipped interlude, but now they’re back, and in a very specific way.
Solange, Frank Ocean, Chance the Rapper, SZA, Jay-Z and Beyoncé have all used the voices of their respective parents, or parental figures, on interludes to weave a narrative through recent albums, accenting their broader themes. Take, for example, Jay-Z’s Smile from 4:44, in which his own soul-baring about his mum Gloria’s homosexuality is anchored by her appearance at the song’s end. Sister-in-law Solange, meanwhile, built A Seat at the Table around interviews with her parents, their monologues on race bookmarking the album’s personal narrative; while Beyoncé used a clip of Jay-Z’s grandmother as the denouement of Lemonade. From Chance the Rapper’s dad, Ken, telling him he’s proud of him on Acid Rap to Frank Ocean’s friend’s mum sweetly listing things to avoid on Blonde (“Don’t use that cocaine or marijuana”), artists keep using the voices of their elders. But why?
“It’s usually a device to enrich someone’s story, to suggest the entire world that produced the artist you’re getting to know via their work,” says Ross Scarano, deputy music editor at Complex Media. It’s no coincidence that a lot of these artists are deeply private outside of their work, often saying very little in interviews or, in the case of Beyoncé and Jay-Z, just not doing them. These interludes offer up personal history, communicating a warmth and humanity at odds with the unreachable status of the old-school megastar. They also often appear in the artist’s most self-consciously important work, an acknowledgment that such artistic heights could never have happened without that support network.
More than helping to craft An Album, such familial sermons cement the bond between artist and listener. Radio 1 DJ and life-long Carter-Knowles stan Clara Amfo says: “[Jay-Z]’s been open about aspects of his life before but on 4:44, it’s the first time I felt like: ‘OK, I’m seeing you as a whole person now.’” For Amfo, A Seat at the Table offered up a similarly direct conversation. “Her parents’ speeches put into context why Beyoncé and Solange have become the people they’ve become. I don’t think that album would be the same without them.”
Jerry Sadowitz. His seething, bile-fuelled, offend-all-and-don’t-give-a-fig approach to standup floats my boat.
Ben Willbond’s spot-on, uber-posh character Fulham Ed at Edinburgh a few years back. A travesty that it’s not known to all.
I spent time in the Middle East as part of my medical school training and lost all sense of fashion. I returned to the UK the owner of a skin-tight orange tank top and a leather sarong.
Most people’s Instagram posts.
Recently, Netflix’s Wet Hot American Summer: First Day of Camp. Not only hysterical in its own right, but you get to see the same actors from the original 2001 film, many of whom are now huge movie stars, return to play younger versions of themselves.
Dr Seuss. The man’s a genius. Anyone who can come up with “Do you know who’s asleep out in Foona-Lagoona? Two very nice Foona-Lagoona Baboona” deserves to be a doctor.
Jason Bent, the preening, narcissistic Premier League footballer character I play has had some hilarious barnets over the years.
A few nights ago I dreamed that I went for a picnic with Will Ferrell. It wasn’t that funny but I woke up thinking that was a useful meeting.
Diffendoofer.
The funniest meal I’ve ever eaten
Last month I ate some off tuna at an Italian restaurant and ended up in an ambulance thinking I was going to die. You had to be there.
Lee Nelson: Serious Joker is at The Pleasance Courtyard: Cabaret Bar, Edinburgh, to 27 August
Jean-Pierre Melville’s 1962 thriller Le Doulos is rereleased in connection with a complete retrospective for his centenary at London’s BFI Southbank. The title means “hat”, slang for informer, stoolpigeon, rat or grass, and it’s a moody, ruminative lowlife crime drama winding up with as many corpses on the floor as Hamlet, and pungent with the sweaty maleness of Melville’s tough-guy pictures.
It’s also a world of grisly unreflective misogyny, in which women can be slapped around and beaten up. The movie features Melville’s classic images: the nightclub scenes, impassive criminals in cars wearing the uniform of snap-brim hats, trench coats, cigarettes dangling from the mouth – so uniform, in fact, that they look alike, and Le Doulos is the one Melville film that finally puts a self-aware, black-comic narrative twist on this generic mannerism.
Jean-Paul Belmondo plays Silien, a safe-cracker who labours under the reputation of a “doulos” because of his friendship with a cop. His buddy Maurice (played by the Italian actor and singing star Serge Reggiani) is just out of prison and, having already whacked the fence he knows killed his girlfriend while he was inside, is now on the run again because his latest robbery was interrupted by Silien’s inspector friend, whom Maurice shoots dead before escaping. Silien is suspected of fitting him up, so he realises that to redeem his criminal honour, he must get the law off Maurice’s back by framing an alternative suspect for the cop killing: creepy club-owner Nutthecchio (Michel Piccoli).
It’s a very distinctive movie, although not as good, for me, as Melville’s Le Samourai or Army of Shadows. There is a brilliant moment when a victim stares terrified into the camera lens – and we realise he is staring down the barrel of the gun that will kill him.
A solo play about a painter sounds an improbable idea. If Alan Franks’ portrait of Lucian Freud holds our attention, it is less for any startling insights into the nature of art, than for a mesmerising performance by Henry Goodman. It has long been known that Goodman has a matchless technique, but here he makes you believe you are watching an artist at work.
The idea is that Freud is engaged, over several months, on a portrait of an unseen naked model. Prompted by her questions, he talks at length about the people he has painted. These include the Queen, who supposedly asked, “Still just the 14?” in reference to Freud’s multiple children. We also hear Freud’s views on professional colleagues such as Francis Bacon – “He throws himself at the canvas in the hope of a collision” – as well as people he has known, from Greta Garbo to the Krays. Names are clangorously dropped, but, while we learn about Freud’s famous forebears, his sitters and his gambling addiction, we don’t discover what motivated the “unconsoling candour”, in Robert Hughes’s phrase, of his celebrated nudes.
Even if the play belongs to the realm of higher gossip rather than art history, it is lifted to another plane by Goodman. The first thing one notices are the eyes.
Shakespeare’s Berowne says “a lover’s eyes will gaze an eagle blind”: so too would Goodman’s, which are forever widening with rapt fixation as he seizes on the reddened soles of his imagined sitter’s feet or an unexpected fold in her flesh. It is clear that Goodman has done his homework on Freud. He adopts a faint German accent, wears the unlaced boots we see in the artist’s self-portrait and paints with his left hand. However, while Goodman, under Tom Attenborough’s direction, has obviously studied his subject, he transcends Franks’ text to suggest something else: that the true artist – whether painter, writer or musician – is always the victim of an ungovernable obsession. Franks captures an unpredictability that allows Freud to behave towards his female model with a mix of testy impatience and wolfish seductiveness. The memory one carries away, however, is of Goodman’s remarkable portrait of the artist as someone in total, unforgiving thrall to the work in hand.
• At Ustinov Studio, Bath, until 2 September. Box office: 01225 448844.
Even at a festival where comedians routinely tackle thorny subjects, the matter of Kiri Pritchard-McLean’s new show feels unlikely: Appropriate Adult is about her volunteer work with vulnerable children.
It chronicles her mentoring relationship with one 15-year-old girl, including reflections on her own maternal instinct and the millennial generation’s refusal to reproduce. Pritchard-McLean has form in tackling uncomfortable topics: her 2016 fringe debut addressed the vexed question of sexism in comedy. That show was good; this one’s better. Pritchard-McLean’s confidence and craft and has come on in bounds, and her new set is packed with laughs and not short of narrative incident.
But should we be laughing at a story about a vulnerable child? Pritchard-McLean is alert to the ethical concerns: names are changed, and she makes fairly sure it’s mentor not mentee who’s the butt of the jokes. Principle among them is the running one about her motivation for volunteering: is it so she can help others, or so she can be smug? A parallel concern finds our host measuring her every caring action on a scale running from “good mum” – selfless and nurturing – to “cool mum”, who she’d much rather be.
As that implies, this isn’t a worthy show – at least until the curtain call, when Pritchard-McLean openly admits she hopes it inspires us to do some volunteering ourselves. She’s certainly a good advert for a social conscience, coming across as someone to whom life – its ups and downs (including a recent breakup) notwithstanding – is huge fun, and to whom earthy humour and a sense of her own ridiculousness is reflex. There’s choice material on being a 30-year-old nightclubber, the moral superiority of porn to alt-right politics, and “John Wayne-ing it around” with an outsized menstrual cup in her vagina. Pious, it’s not.
What’s most impressive is the command with which Pritchard-McLean dispatches the material. This feels like a precision-tooled set It’s pacey and lean; no opportunity is missed for a second laugh to build upon the first; every joke comes with a just-as-funny aside. The three strands (volunteer work; maternal instinct; millennial angst) flow together smoothly. It’s a level of control that’s essential, as her mentoring responsibilities grow more complex and her story and turns towards a troubled conclusion. You won’t get a redemptive finale, but you do get an hour in the hands of an increasingly impressive comic, making powerhouse standup from the thorniest of subjects.
• At the Pleasance Courtyard, Edinburgh, until 28 August. Box office: 0131-556 6550.
Herefordshire is one of England’s most rural places. Cradled by Worcestershire against the wall of Wales, it is the last of England. My family have lived here for 800 years.
The west of the county is peregrine-stooped upland. The Black Hill, beloved of Bruce Chatwin and wilderness walkers, soars to 640 metres. The east is pastorally perfect: rich green fields for the famous Hereford cattle, and fertile red earth for hops. There are orchards too: this is the cider county, the home of Bulmers.
Red sandstone gives the local ploughland its carmine colour. It is also the source of the building blocks for Hereford’s gothic cathedral, home of the Mappa Mundi, a map of the world drawn in the 1300s by a monk with a forgivable parochialism. Hereford is one of the handful of places he deemed worth mentioning outside the Holy Land. Well, it is heaven on Earth.
There is a necklace of startling black-and-white Tudor villages north of Hereford. Postcard makers are ardent for Weobley, Eardisland, Eardisley and Pembridge. them. But the villages were conserved by poverty, because no one had the funds to modernise them.
George Orwell thought a quiddity of England was an old maid cycling through mist to church. Here’s another: three ladies of a certain age playing cribbage in the back room of a country pub. You’ll find them at The Crown, in Woolhope, just south of Hereford. Only Orwell’s fantasy pub, The Moon Under Water, tops it.
Next door is Saint George’s church, with its 1581 timbered lych gate. Almost everywhere you turn in Herefordshire there’s a jewel of a church. Brockhampton’s Arts and Crafts church was built in 1901 with no expense spared. Even the nails were specially manufactured. Eccentric and utterly English, the church is next to (of course) a cricket pitch.
The Wye valley downstream from Woolhope is as lovely as the Dordogne, especially if you take the secret riverside lane through the hamlet of Hole-in-the Wall to Ross. From a distance, Ross seems pinned to its red cliff by the needle steeple of St Mary’s.
Peeping from behind Ross is May Hill, and Edward Thomas country. In the early 20th century, Thomas was part of an informal poets’ and writers’ commune in the village of Dymock. The American Robert Frost was another luminary. The Dymock boys had a love of nature worthy of the Romantics.
Thomas became besotted with Herefordshire, where “the land was sweet”. He walked with Frost around Dymock, Much Marcle and May Hill. For him, Herefordshire was “This England”, and his love for it imposed a duty of protection. He enlisted in 1915, and was killed at Arras in April 1917.
Soon I’ll go over Dymock way, and walk along the lanes, following the Poets’ Paths. This will be my pilgrimage to Thomas, soldier and nature lover, the man who inspired my latest book, Where Poppies Blow.
• John Lewis-Stempel’s Where Poppies Blow: The British Soldier, Nature, The Great War (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, £20) won the 2017 Wainwright prize for nature writing. To buy a copy for £17, including UK p&p, visit the guardian bookshop
The winning piece of this year’s National and Torres Strait Islander art award – the country’s most prestigious and longstanding prize for Indigenous art – reveals its meaning slowly.
The eye is first drawn to its installation: 37 spears arranged cell-like, boxing in a striking photograph of the young artist Anwar Young, standing straight up with his left hand holding his right wrist, as he stares with power and defiance directly at the camera.
Overlaid across the image is text – written, erased and then rewritten by photographer Rhonda Dick, Anwar’s aunt – which tells two stories: one of Indigenous incarceration, and the other of a return to culture.
The formation of the spears tells both of these stories too, Anwar’s grandfather Frank Young says: “It’s talking about ‘behind bars’, like jail, and it’s talking about [being] behind our culture.” The piece is titled Kulata Tjuta – Wati kulunypa tjukurpa (Many spears – Young fella story), and it’s a collaboration between the three generations of one family.
Indigenous incarceration has been a brutal and damaging force for communities such as theirs, resulting in cyclic dysfunction. As Frank Young says in the artist’s note, “the whitefella way of locking people up isn’t working”. Children in need would be better served, he believes, by returning to their culture; by learning from their elders.
The Pitjantjatjara artist remembers his own childhood growing up in the Amata community of South Australia. “I used to watch my grandfather making spears every day, and thinking, ‘One day I’ll do that.’”
The cultural practice of spear-making – for fighting and for hunting – had been passed down through Frank’s community for generations, “grandfather to grandson”. And it’s hard work, he says.
“For a strong spear, he would wait for the sun to go over and make the mast, and then heat the mast in the ashes in the ground. To make them straight he’d use the knee, straighten it up.” Here, Young leans down from his chair to demonstrate holding a spear under his knee, and using his arms to straighten it. “Sometimes it broke. Yeah, it’s hard work.”
That practice is the focus of the Kulata Tjuta (many spears) project: a program of cultural maintenance and skill-sharing between older and younger generations of men across the Aṉangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) region, which has been realised in a series of high profile installations and artworks since it began officially in 2010 at the Tjala Arts centre.
The Natsiaa-winning work is the project’s latest offering, and it’s being exhibited – alongside 64 finalists chosen by a pre-selection panel, and five category winners chosen by the judges – at the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory (MAGNT) in Darwin.
The piece was entered into the inaugural multimedia category – an evolution of the prize which recognises innovation in Indigenous art around the country – and was chosen as the winner by a panel of three judges: artist Emily McDaniel, QAGOMA director Chris Saines and Indigenous artist Regina Wilson. McDaniel told Guardian Australia she was struck not just by the photograph and its installation, but by the multi-pronged story it was telling. “It wasn’t simply a protest, it wasn’t simply a statement. It was offering a solution, a hope, a future way forward of addressing these issues that are so pertinent to Australia.”
The winning work is one of more than 20 of the finalists, and four of six category winners, which comes from the APY region in the remote north-west of South Australia – a population of around 2,500 people which is consistently recognised, at both a national and international level, for the quality and innovation of its art.
Western Arrente artist Robert Fielding, who won in the work on paper category for the second time this year, is another artist from the region. His work, Milkali Kutju (one blood), is a striking piece in red that features a giant hand raising a finger – the number one – with thousands of holes painstakingly burnt into the paper by heated wire, spelling out the words as the light shines through.
While the work has the composition of a political poster, Fielding’s message is one of reconciliation and equality rather than of politics, he says. “We look at each other, at what’s on the surface – but below the surface of the skin, it’s blood and one blood, it’s the same. There’s no different colour blood ... It’s red, and red alone.”
As he speaks, Fielding repeats the phrase “ngapartji ngapartji”, which translates roughly to “you help or give to me, I help or give to you”. He says this approach is behind the success of what he describes as “a revolution” of APY art.
“[Our region] is not only the Hadley [art prize] winner; we’re not only the Wynne [landscape prize] winner, twice – we are now also the Telstra winner,” he says. “And we have these non-Indigenous people who are working in the arts centres in these areas – I must acknowledge each and every one of them ... ngapartji ngapartji.”
The arts centres dappled through the APY lands help the artists to create their work and then showcase it at the highest level, which is paying dividends for the region and the communities around it. Fielding namechecks Tjala arts (who represent not just this year’s winner, but close to 10 of the finalists), Mimili Maku and Iwantja arts centre for their involvement in the success of art from the region.
“It [comes down to] the ngapartji ngapartji between our art coordinators and managers that are working with us ... It’s about artists persevering and being consistent in their work, and these managers putting those works out there in places that we might not understand – these prestigious awards that are happening throughout Australia and are recognising us for our hard work.
“We work together – co-ordinators, artists, workers – and we are one body,” Fielding says, alluding again to the message of his winning piece. “When we win these awards, and get this prestige, that pushes other communities to the next level too.”
McDaniel, who recently represented Indigenous Australia as a first nations curator at the Venice Biennale, says success from the region is nothing new.
“The APY region has been on fire for the last 17 years, arguably even more. There’s a lot of artistic innovation that happens there, and I think that’s a direct result of the collaboration that takes place between multiple generations – and we see that in the winning work ... They aren’t settled into a practice. They want to challenge, they want to innovate.”
The relationship between “contemporary” and “traditional” Indigenous art, and innovation within it, has been a contested topic in the art world for decades. Last year, 2016 Natsiaa judge Vernon Ah Kee told Guardian Australia: “Aboriginal art is so often relegated to the decorative arts or the primitive, and with good reason: because it’s been consistently described like that for decades ... [we are] more than just blackfellas in the desert.”
But according to McDaniel, the issue is more nuanced than that: “We need to move away from this sense of what is ‘contemporary’, and what is ‘traditional’. I find it a very limiting framework to operate in. There is a cultural continuum that runs throughout all contemporary practice.”
She continues: “We are the oldest living culture in the world. We say that as a tagline, we throw it out there every now and again, but there is a very strong meaning in that. We’re the oldest living culture because we have always changed and innovated; we have always responded to the changing world that we live in. Art is no different to that – in fact, it’s the documentation of that process.”
McDaniel highlights a number of winning works this year which are “simplified in their form, and recall cultural objects and cultural practices that have always been there” – including Nyapanyapa Yunupingu’s winning work Lines, in the bark painting category, and Matjangka (Nyukana) Norris’s winning piece Ngura Pilti, in the general painting category. “But they’re still innovating in each one – you see the artist in each object.”
That’s particularly true for the winner of the 3D category, Shirley Macnamara: her stunning bowl, titled Nyurruga Muulawaddi (old woman spinifex), was painstakingly woven from the notoriously unyielding fibre she and her grandsons gathered from the station her family runs south of Mount Isa, and from her traditional land.
When she tells me she put herself into the artwork, Macnamara means it both figuratively and literally. You can feel the tension in the multicoloured fibres held together by her work, which is deceptive in its simplicity and in its gentleness. “The pieces of spinifex come off and go in [your skin] – you often have bits and pieces in you,” she says, laughing. “And there were bits and pieces of me going into that work as well!”
Macnamara, an Indjilandji Dhidhanu Alwarre woman who grew up near Camooweal, was forbidden from learning the language and songs of her culture as a child, for fear of being stolen from her family. Picking up the traditional craft was a way to weave her grandmother’s story into her art, and pass down the history of her people.
“It’s an economic gesture, but it’s such a profound one,” says Natsiaa judge Chris Saines. He was struck by the quality of the 3D category this year, but Macnamara’s was the standout. “There’s a strength, a kind of resilience, that inhabits that seemingly simple object that makes it, I think, one of the best works in the exhibition.”
The Natsiaas introduced an emerging artist category this year – an evolution of the youth category, open to any artist who is just beginning their practice. It was won by Pitjantjatjara artist Betty Muffler for her work Ngangkara Ngura (Healing Country).
Muffler is a ngangkari or traditional healer for her region, who also works for health clinics in Adelaide and Alice Springs. She tells me the spirit of an eagle lives in her arm, and she releases it when she sleeps; it flies through the country, lands next to people and heals them during the night.
Her painting is a large-scale and meticulously detailed aerial view of her country, with white lines representing the healing forces that fly through it. But it’s infused with a sadder story, too: as a small girl, Muffler was one of the few members of her family to survive the British nuclear tests at Maralinga.
“It happened so fast. Ten minutes and everything was over,” she says, through a translator. She speaks with her body and hands and eyes as much as her voice, as she describes losing her father, her mother and some siblings in the bombing. “It passed really fast. They took away the bodies – my father was taken away. And then the smoke came.”
Muffler points to her head and her heart, and then back to the painting: the story is all on the canvass, too.
• The 2017 Telstra Natsiaa is exhibited at the Museum and Art Gallery of the Northern Territory until 26 November
• The Natsiaa Salon des Refuses, of art that did not make the final, is exhibiting until 30 September at Charles Darwin University Art Gallery. The Darwin Aboriginal Art Fair runs until 13 August at the Darwin Convention Centre
‘Il faut être absolument moderne,” wrote Rimbaud: we must be absolutely modern. Has there been a foreign-language tradition more influential to modern English poetry than French? From WB Yeats’s symbolist beginnings to Ezra Pound and TS Eliot’s discovery of Jules Laforgue and Tristan Corbière, from Gertrude Stein’s cubist prose poems to Frank O’Hara carrying a Pierre Reverdy book in his pocket, 20th-century Anglophone poetry offers strong evidence for Wallace Stevens’s claim that “French and English constitute a single language”.
Patrick McGuinness, who is among the most Gallic (or, strictly speaking, Belgian) of modern British poets, has assembled a careful yet copious anthology, demonstrating just how close the two traditions are. Handily pocket-sized, this is not the book for great tracts of the Roman de la Rose and other early epics in translation; its medieval selections incline to ballades and chansons and the ultra-concision of this Christine de Pisan rondeau, in Norman Shapiro’s translation:
Amorous eye,
Bowman of love.
You glance, I die,
Amorous eye;
Your grace: too high
The price thereof,
Amorous eye.
The 16th century makes a strong showing, notably in Pound’s version of one of the greatest of all French sonnets, Joachim du Bellay’s “O thou newcomer who seek’st Rome in Rome”. Also well represented is the closest thing in French to a metaphysical poet, Maurice Scève, while the transition to modernity is assisted by an audacious leap from Antoinette des Houlières (b 1638) to the revolutionary martyr André Chénier (b 1762).
Despite Stevens’s claims of cross-channel unity, a basic difference distinguishes the two traditions. English scansion is based on stress (the fly-swat beats of Alfred Tennyson’s “So all day long the noise of battle roared”), while French is based on the number of syllables in a line. When Paul Verlaine wanted to shock, in “Art poétique”, all he had to do was write in nine-syllable lines. McGuinness reflects this variant metric in the admirable pluralism of his chosen translations, especially in the 19th- and 20th-century heartlands of this book. This can throw up some striking juxtapositions, as when a chaste version of Charles Baudelaire by Lord Alfred Douglas lines up opposite Jeremy Reed’s “You skirt-hitched slut, you’d sleep with anyone”. Other Baudelaire versions by Arthur Symons and Aleister Crowley add a sepia tinge to proceedings, before the shock of the new in the form of Peter Manson’s radical transpositions of Stéphane Mallarmé.
It takes a brave editor to bypass Samuel Beckett, Derek Mahon and Alan Jenkins for a version of Arthur Rimbaud’s “Le bateau ivre”, but McGuinness opts instead for Wyatt Mason’s blank-verse text. Mason even manages to keep Craig Raine’s party piece “Arsehole” (also from Rimbaud) at bay with his “Sonnet to an Asshole”, which can’t help making it sound like a catty Post-it note left on the fridge for Verlaine. The roll-call so far has been male-dominated, but it also takes editorial courage to include four poems by Marceline Valmore-Desbordes, as McGuinness does, to zero by Paul Claudel, Charles Péguy or Saint-John Perse. Anthony Hartley’s old Penguin Book of French Verse limited itself to a single modern female poet, Catherine Pozzi, but here we find Anne Hébert, Vénus Khoury-Ghata, Marie-Claire Bancquart and Valérie Rouzeau, whose Cold Spring in Winter is one of the best French poetry books in translation of recent times.
With his Belgian-Welsh background, McGuinness is properly sensitive to the contributions to the Francophone canon from poets born east of the Meuse (Henri Michaux, Marguerite Yourcenar), but his Welsh side finds an unexpected ally in the person of Heather Dohollau (1925-2013). Dohollau traded Wales for Brittany, where she began to write poetry in French, winning the approval of Yves Bonnefoy but falling unclassifiably between Welsh, British and French traditions. Dohollau is long overdue rediscovery by the British audience she left behind.
Space may be at a premium, but a few longer poems are represented in their entirety. We get Guillaume Apollinaire’s sublime “Zone” in Beverley Bie Brahic’s translation rather than Beckett’s, though Beckett does feature as a translator of Paul Éluard. No less welcome is the full text of Paul Valéry’s supreme lyric, “Le cimetière marin”, as rendered by CH Sisson, edging out Mahon’s more recent version of that masterpiece:
As a fruit melts into its enjoyment,
Changing into delight when it is
absent
Inside a mouth in which its form dies,
Here I inhale the smoke that I shall be,
My soul consumed as heaven sings to
me
Of shores from which murmurs of
change arise.
Among the translators regrettably absent are Edwin Morgan and Sydney Goodsir Smith, who harnessed Apollinaire and Corbière to the Scottish literary renaissance; Justin Quinn, for his luminous versions of Valéry; and Richard Price, who has done wonderful things with Louise Labé’s sonnets. These quibbles are a minor zut alors in the face of the riches on show here, however.
Humanity has always been most at home in France, Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer write in their co-authored Dialectic of Enlightenment, even if the examples they give are the brothel and the cast-iron urinal. Bad anthologies are tolerance zones for literary vice and unsavoury peeing competitions, but the warm humanity of French Poetry from Mediaeval to Modern Times caters for body and soul, wholesome and unwholesome needs alike. It is a splendid achievement.
David Wheatley’s The President of Planet Earth will be published by Carcanet in October.
• French Poetry from Medieval to Modern Times is published by Everyman (£9.99).
I have, on occasion, switched off the music for a moment then restarted again with this. Just hearing the intro always elicits the broadest of smiles.
I love rewinds. It’s a cultural thing among us DJ selectors. A moment to savour when the crowd and music are one.
Ever heard of Dick Rowe? Legend has it he famously turned down the chance to sign the Beatles for Decca records. It reminds me of my A&R tenure at Talkin’ Loud records back in the day when we tried to sign Jamiroquai and my then-boss said a big fat no.
Bed?! Chance would be a fine thing! But when I do wake up after nodding off at some crazy after-gig party, I sometimes find myself humming along to this; breathtakingly beautiful and great to stroll home to.
Never ask your ex-punk wife to bring along her Clash CD to your gig. I had forgotten my copy from which I would normally play London Calling. Unbeknown to me, her copy contained a different track running order to mine. And so, in front of thousands of mainly black Notting Hill carnival-goers, I played White Riot by mistake. The entire crowd stood silent in utter disbelief as I styled it out for the duration of the track.
I really can’t understand why this beautifully crafted piece of abstract drum’n’bass hasn’t done much better out there. Goldie is the Picasso of our contemporary dance music scene.
Norman Jay plays Night Thing at The Jazz Cafe, NW1, 18 August; his compilation Mister Good Times is out on 25 August
Studies in the past have found that children’s books are dominated by male characters, that history books are overrun by male authors writing about male figures, and that literary fiction is less likely to win a prize if it focuses on a female character.
A new wave of books aimed at children might just be doing its small bit to change that. Thousands of little girls – boys as well, but likely mainly girls – will be settling down for bed this evening with a new kind of bedtime story, one in which the heroines are not fictional, but real. From Good Night Stories for Rebel Girls to Fantastically Great Women Who Changed the World, sales of books about inspirational women have boomed this year – and look set to grow.
Kate Pankhurst – a distant relative of the suffragette Emmeline – has sold more than 52,000 copies of her guide to the Fantastically Great Women Who Changed the World, according to book sales monitor Nielsen BookScan. Elena Favilli and Francesca Cavallo, meanwhile, didn’t have high expectations when they launched a Kickstarter last year for Good Night Stories For Rebel Girls, which tells the stories of 100 “extraordinary” women, from Malala Yousafzai to Michelle Obama. They wanted to raise $40,000 (£31,000), and to print 1,000 copies. But their Kickstarter became the most-funded publishing campaign on the site, raising more than $1m. The self-published book has since sold more than 500,000 copies around the world.
“I didn’t at all expect it to sell so much,” says Pankhurst of her book. “I didn’t anticipate the interest from parents that was out there, but it’s been really lovely to see people enjoying it. It’s a real discussion point for families – a way in to talking about the stories of these women, and to talking about the broader point of why the book is only about women, if they have been forgotten from history.”
She believes readers are responding, in some way, to the darkness of current affairs. “There is so much in the news at the moment about a regressive attitude to women and to diversity, and I think there is a real appetite for writing to show the better side of humankind, its inspirational stories. To say: ‘This is the way things should be,’” she says.
“There is a vacuum our books are filling,” agrees Favilli. “We live in a time when gender stereotyping, and equal rights, and empowering young girls is very important and is happening internationally. People are eager to find different kinds of content to consume with their children.”
Feminism in books is currently experiencing crossover appeal in both adult and children’s fiction, with novels unpicking the role of women in society also shooting up the charts. Off the back of regressive gender politics in the US and a hit TV adaptation, Margaret Atwood’s 1985 classic The Handmaid’s Tale has sold almost 150,000 copies this year, and this year’s Baileys prize winner, Naomi Alderman’s The Power, has sold more than 80,000. And Favilli’s UK editor Casiana Ionita – 500,000 sales later – believes some of the success of Good Night Stories comes from adults, who recognise it is as a book they would have liked as children. “We have heard from people buying it for themselves, or for their friends ... it is OK for grownups to like this book: most of us wish we’d had something like it growing up. And we get lots of fathers reading it with their daughters.”
Father-and-children’s book blogger Phil May, who runs ReaditDaddy, is one of them. “It feels like the last four years or so have seen a huge rise in inspirational girl books. Certainly in 2016 and 2017 we’ve seen more ‘mighty girl’ titles than any other year,” he says. He attributes their astronomical rise to a number of factors: “Renewed interest in space exploration, for example, means that girls as well as boys … not only want to hear about the women who are working in space science today, but the women who helped contribute to hugely important advances in space exploration. Knowing who people like Helen Sharman and Valentina Tereshkova are is vitally important for girls who are no longer satisfied with being palmed off with rubbish [suggesting] ‘space is for boys, why would girls be interested in that stuff?’”
Bookshops are pushing other titles like Girls Think of Everything by Catherine Thimmesh, Chelsea Clinton’s just-published She Persisted, about 13 American women who changed the world, and Women in Science, a collection by Rachel Ignotofsky looking at 50 female scientists, which has sold more than 15,000 copies to date.
And there is more to come, with Ionita saying she’s seen a lot of proposals because “a lot of people are keen on doing more in this sphere”. Next month, the young adult novel about suffragettes, Things a Bright Girl Can Do, by the award-winning Sally Nicholls, arrives on shelves; after that, space expert Libby Jackson’s Women in Space (about “50 inspirational women who have been fundamental to the story of humans in space”) comes out in November. Then next March, the comic book Brazen: Rebel Ladies Who Rocked the World, arrives on shelves. And Pankhurst is working on a follow-up: Fantastically Great Women Who Made History, which will feature names including the suffragette Flora Drummond (“she hired a barge to pull up outside the Houses of Parliament and shouted slogans at MPs having tea on the lawn”), and the dancer and civil rights activist Josephine Baker.
And Christmas brings another follow-up: Good Night Stories For Rebel Girls 2, covering women from Nefertiti to Beyoncé, which has raised $866,193 on Kickstarter to date (yet again, substantially more than its $100,000 goal).
“Books about inspirational women have been a welcome and much needed addition to our bookshelves,” says Waterstones children’s buyer Florentyna Martin, praising Pankhurst’s book, which has remained a bestseller for the chain since it was published last year, as well as Good Night Stories. “It’s important to recognise that these titles are shaping a sustainable area of children’s books and not just ‘bestsellers for the moment’. These books are required, to inspire younger generations for years to come … and the older ones too.”
“For me as a dad of a daughter, it feels like the first time that people have actively stood up to the rubbishy old sexist viewpoints of particular careers or branches of interest being dominated by gender,” says May. “It’s been a stunning few years for these types of books. Long may it continue.”
Whales: Beneath the Surface
This is a sublime scientific and imaginative journey to the bottom of the sea – or very nearly – showing how incredibly deep whales dive, letting their lungs collapse under the pressure before returning to the surface full of squid. Colossal bones, recorded whale sounds and a lucid account of their evolution, make for a haunting and informative encounter with some of the most astonishing animals on earth. Most fascinating of all is the comparison between an enormous whale brain and a human one. It will have you planning your own sequel to Moby-Dick.
+/- Human
A compelling display of curious and unpredictable flying robots that is both fun for all ages and thought-provoking. It feels like being in a Doctor Who episode.
Giacometti
Last few weeks to see this outstanding exhibition of one of the modern world’s greatest artists.
Beyond Caravaggio
If you are in Edinburgh, don’t miss this entrancing presentation of the genius of Caravaggio and the dazzling range of disciples he inspired, including the French visionary of candlelight Georges de La Tour.
Portraying a Nation
The acerbic imagination of Otto Dix plays off against the objective photographs of August Sander in a strange and shocking encounter with the last days of the Weimar Republic.
The surreal bronze light of this gleaming fantasy landscape shows why JMW Turner found Claude so inspiring. The last glow of the setting sun penetrates the atmosphere of this eerie Mediterranean scene with an aftershock of fire. It perfectly captures a certain kind of summer evening light – and makes it eternal. Shine on Claude, you crazy diamond.
Self-portrait, by Cindy Sherman
American photographer, film-maker and conceptual portraitist Cindy Sherman has revealed a distorted selfie-filled Instagram account. Read all about it.
Vermeer was an authentic artistic genius – even if he did cheat
Jim Carrey’s art prooves Hollywood stars should avoid the canvas
Drawings found in a London antiques shop have been accredited to Giacometti
Australia’s indigenous artists are fighting back against fake artifacts
Major outdoor sculptures are being commissioned for the Battersea power station development
The chief of the V&A has apologised to a breastfeeding woman who asked to cover up
Photographer W Eugene Smith, who wanted to record everything
A painting of a jowly fellow has been identified as a lost self-portrait of Joseph Wright of Derby
Photographer Jack Latham ventured inside a burning forest to take the perfect shot
Master of urban illusion, Alex Chinneck, unveils his first permanent work and rips through a building in Hammersmith
Martin Roth, former V&A director, has died aged 62
Thanks to his work with Roald Dahl, the illustrations of Quentin Blake are so well known that it’s easy to take them for granted. We all recognise the scratchy, loose, improvised lines and the good-natured mood. Yet his work’s range can be surprising.
The Photo, from the artist’s unpublished personal collection, is one of many images he’s created of birds. According to Blake, our feathered friends are “a kind of illimitable repertory company able to deal with all sorts of human situations”.
Like all great cartoons, The Photo seems to sum up something fundamental that we know about our fellow travellers. Yet while this scene suggests a stereotype – tourists on holiday – it’s also open-ended enough to set our imaginations to work.
The parents have bodies on which life’s disappointments and struggles are gently written, her slumped shoulders and shapeless clothes, his ungainly skinniness. The son combines their physical qualities in a soft echo of Larkin’s famous line about what your mum and dad bequeath to you. Its pathos is startling, yet lightly worn.
Part of Quentin Blake: The Life of Birds, House of Illustration, N1, to 1 October
As a man who “unboxes” questionable ideologies as if they’re gadgets on YouTube, Dylan Marron is a popular target for faceless trolls. So in his new podcast, Conversations With People Who Hate Me (Night Vale Presents/iTunes), he calls them up and calls them out. Marron is, wisely, not trying to find common ground or change anyone’s mind, but the first two episodes result in some kind of penny dropping.
One detractor, Chris, who called Marron “a piece of shit”, is a friendly chap who chats about fixing his washing machine as he sets up Skype. “I had a couple of cocktails in me, but let me tell you: I stand by what I said,” he chirps, before going into his views about “the LGBT whatever” community. “I don’t think they need a whole list of rights,” he says.
Marron treads carefully, and cleverly, teasing out Chris’s arguments that Black Lives Matter doesn’t help anyone, and elicits a confession that his more liberal wife banished him from the bedroom after an argument over Donald Trump.
“Do you hate me?” asks Marron at the end of the conversation. Chris doesn’t. Then again, Marron is a hard man to hate because he is so disarming and genuinely interested in why the people who have abused him hold those views. The guests are polite, too, no longer able to hide behind their user names. Maybe stepping outside the echo chamber isn’t that bad after all.
Marron puts forward a theory to Josh (who told him that being gay is a sin) that people who are hurt go on to hurt other people. It turns out that Josh’s life at high school is hell. “People seem to judge me before they get to know me,” he says. “When you’re in high school, it’s all about perfection.”
Josh even offers some sound advice: “If you don’t let people get to you, if you don’t change based on what people say, you’ll make the world a hell of a lot better.” It’s not exactly an apology, but maybe acceptance is better.
If you like this, try … TED – Sincerely, X.
Rex Factor
You don’t get much more British than Rex Factor, the talent show podcast that rates members of the monarchy. During each show, the hosts pick one monarch from British history and give them scores out of ten on themes such as Battleyness (“how good they are in battle and warfare”) and Scandal (“their notoriety and tendency towards naughtiness”) before deciding whether they have that certain something that gives them the Rex Factor. At the end of the series, the Rex Factor winners are pitted against each other to see who truly was the greatest monarch of them all.
Not only is it a fun format for a history show, but the chemistry between the two hosts Graham Duke and Ali Hood gives the show real charm. Duke brings meticulous research, an eye for a ridiculous anecdote and a dry sense of humour. Hood by contrast is, like the listener, learning everything for the first time and gives commentary with a vocabulary and enthusiasm that wouldn’t be out of place in a PG Wodehouse novel.
It’s an amazing way to learn about England as you discover monarchs you’d never heard of (let’s hear it for Edward IV). This is a fantastic podcast that absolutely everyone should try. Recommended by Nick Humfrey
Stories We Tell
Stories We Tell is a podcast that tells stories from Judaism that are passed down through the generations. The power of storytelling is truly mesmerizing, and hearing a story, imagining the characters, and putting yourself into that situation can make an imprint on your own life. These stories of respect, action and understanding can also serve as gentle reminders for all of us who see ourselves as role models, be it at work with colleagues or at home with our children. I eagerly anticipate hearing more episodes that will bring a smile to my face and fill my heart. Recommended by Jeremy Seaver
By Association
My club winning a trophy is great,but it’s the personalities and quirks of everyone involved, from the players on the pitch to the fans in the stands, that keep me obsessed. That’s why I love By Association. It’s about everything that surrounds the sport, such as foosball obsessives and how video games have influenced what takes place on the real pitch. I listen to a couple fantastic podcasts on a weekly basis that recount the scores and the tactics, but By Association is the only one that explores what football inspires in people.
A recent episode is centred around Le Ballon, an amateur football league in Paris. There isn’t a mention of scores, salaries or transfer rumours, but instead James Parkinson (the podcast host) speaks with the creators of Le Ballon on what motivated them to create a league by and for artists and creatives, and how that creative energy transferred onto other football-related projects.
Plus, with the proliferation of podcasts in my feed, it’s refreshing to have one that is typically under 15 minutes and covers just one story per episode. Recommended by Curt Baker
Politics Weekly Extra: Women’s Seminar
This three part edition of Politics Weekly shines a spotlight on the Guardian’s Women’s Seminar held earlier this year. The event was a place for change-making women, and one token man, to talk about how victories are won and how to inspire other women. And my goodness was it inspiring. How could it not be with guests like Elif Shafak, Margaret Hodge, Leyla Hussein and Lindsey Hilsum? Each episode explores different experiences of misogyny, the patriarchy, and how we can all help to overcome it. Topics cover FGM, fighting for human rights, mothers supporting daughters, the importance of sticking to your guns and fighting every case of discrimination. And it wasn’t just the guests that were inspirational, in the final episode we’ll hear from the audience and learn of their incredible struggles and wonderful victories. There’s also a particularly interesting and lively discussion about whether we need to lesson our goals in order to achieve noticeable results. Recommended by Rowan Slaney
The Bake Off-shaped hole in the Beeb’s schedule is finally filled this week with a new cookery show fronted by Nadiya Hussain, Zoe Ball and chefs Giorgio Locatelli and Rosemary Shrager. Fans of tweeness – and anyone baffled by Channel 4’s strange Bake Off trailer – will be in for a treat as foodie broods face off.15 August, 8pm, BBC2
Hull’s tenure as City of Culture includes epic theatre project Flood from Leeds-based company Slung Low, and accompanying TV offshoots. Part three focuses on the pertinent theme of displacement at the hands of disaster, recalling chaos both natural and man-made.12 August, 10pm, BBC2
The Jim Carrey-produced, Melissa Leo-starring dramedy about standup comics in the 70s kicks off this week, but don’t expect wall-to-wall lols: this is about the dark side of comedy, rivalry, poverty, tanking on stage and all.16 August, 10.10pm, Sky Atlantic
Jessica Jones, Luke Cage, Daredevil and Iron Fist join forces for this new superhero outing, their comic-book backstories and respective series providing more than enough material. Plus: Sigourney Weaver stars. From 18 August, Netflix
Adios to the Spanish thriller which draws to a close this week (for the moment), as the truth about young Ana’s disappearance is finally revealed.12 August, 9pm, BBC4
This new Victorian times-set medical comedy promises lewd and crude fun, with plenty of medical experimentation to alternately turn your stomach and make you howl. None of it has been overegged, either: this is all historically accurate doctorly risk-taking, as it happened in the 1840s. It also boasts a top cast including Rory Kinnear, Mathew Baynton and Rupert Everett.15 August, 10pm, BBC2
The royal parody ends its second series this week, and with Theresa May out of the picture, Charles (Harry Enfield) plans to lead the nation. Could Trump (yes, him) help Charles consolidate his power? Keeping things more surreal than real-life events is quite a task, but this lot make it look easy.16 August, 10pm, Channel 4
Kurupt FM are back, but things aren’t looking too good for Brentford’s best-loved but objectively worst garage crew. Grindah and Miche are still apart, Beats is struggling to balance his life and Chabuddy G is in financial trouble. Can they make it work?From 15 August, BBC3
As per, you could stay up and get your Thrones fix at silly o’clock on Sunday, watch it over breakfast on the Monday or just tune in to the slightly less antisocial Monday night broadcast. In any case, probably best to save the spoilers for a couple of days later. This week sees Daenerys lead the surviving Lannister soldiers to battle and Jaime’s fate is revealed.13 August, 2am; 14 August, 9pm, Sky Atlantic
The killing of Kim Jong-il’s exiled son earlier this year was stranger than fiction. This one-off doc examines the case.13 August, 9pm, BBC2
Judith Weir’s cantata is the latest major new British choral work to feature at this year’s Proms. In the Land of Uz is described as a “dramatised reading” of the Book of Job, with a narrator and a chorus telling the story of Job’s trials and his ultimate triumph over them. Southwark Cathedral, SE1, 12 August
The highlight of the celebrations around the 450th anniversary of Monteverdi’s birth this year has been the concert stagings of his three operas that John Eliot Gardiner has been touring across Europe. Having staged them first in Bristol in May, he is back in Britain to present the trilogy at the Edinburgh international festival.Usher Hall, Edinburgh, 14-17 August
What was started 25 years ago by three young New York-based composers as an annual showcase has become one of the world’s most important platforms for new music. Premieres from Bang On a Can’s three founders – Michael Gordon, Julia Wolfe and David Lang – feature in the All-Stars’ late-night programme, alongside pieces by two composers who have influenced the group, Philip Glass and Louis Andriessen.Royal Albert Hall, SW7, 17 August
Fully staged opera is a rare commodity at Edinburgh this summer, but a visit from the Teatro Regio of Turin provides some compensation. Its production of Macbeth is part of the festival’s celebration of its own 70th anniversary – Verdi’s Macbeth was the first opera to be seen there.Edinburgh festival theatre, 18-20 August
In Paris at the dawn of the 20th century, a generation of young artists changed everything. They visited the dusty yet magical galleries of the Ethnography Museum in the rambling Trocadéro and some started their own collections of African masks. This fascination with non-European art helped them break with hundreds of years of tradition. Pablo Picasso completed a portrait of his friend Gertrude Stein by giving her a mask instead of a face. He then painted Les Demoiselles d’Avignon with its wildly cavorting masked prostitutes. Modern art was born in those bold years, in a glamorous atmosphere of absinthe, drugs (Picasso and his friends dabbled in opium) and sex in the red light district of Montmartre.
There is just one problem with this exhilarating story of the birth of modern art. It is not true.
My doubts began a couple of years ago in London’s National Gallery. I was looking at Paul Cézanne’s Les Grandes Baigneuses, which he started in 1894. He was in his 50s then and did not complete it until 1905, one year before his death. Looking at the bold slashing lines of its landscape and the monumental abstracted nudes gathered under a crystalline sky, I realised something about the faces. Their eyes are dark sharp cuts. Their mouths, too. Their noses are like rigid blocks of wood. These are not faces. They are masks.
Yet they were painted by a man who, as far as anyone knows, had never looked at any African art. As for sex and drugs, he never went near them. The art of Cézanne is the fruit of long, focused study by one man in front of an easel through long hot Provençal days. And this is the art that changed everything. This great 19th-century artist invented almost everything we attribute to Matisse, Picasso and Braque. Modernism is all there in paintings he executed as early as the 1880s. Cézanne may be the single most revolutionary artist who ever lived.
To be fair, Picasso never pretended otherwise. His adulation of Cézanne was so great he bought an estate in the foothills of Mont Sainte-Victoire, the mountain in Provence that became a famous motif in some of Cézanne’s greatest paintings. The Spanish artist is buried there. He and Braque saw their movement, cubism, as the direct continuation of Cézanne’s work.
Why do we persist in attributing to the artists of the 1900s ideas they themselves confessed Cézanne had come up with a quarter of a century earlier? It is partly because of the dismal cliche that impressionism, the movement with which Cézanne was associated in the 1870s, is soft and gentle, even “chocolate box”. Yet it is also the fault of Cézanne’s admirers.
For about 80 years after his death, the belief was held by critics that Cézanne’s art leads directly towards the high abstraction of Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko. His painting was given almost mystical properties by theorists of modernism. It can do your head in trying to understand exactly why his apples lead to a “flat picture surface”, especially when those apples look so damned round. Then, in the 1980s, we entered the age of postmodern art and it no longer seemed essential for anyone to make that effort.
Yet I am still banging my head against those apples. My introduction to modern art was the classic Robert Hughes TV series The Shock of the New in which Cézanne is as towering as his mountain. So I couldn’t wait to see Cézanne Portraits, which comes to the National Portrait Gallery this October. I had to see it at its earlier stop, at the Musée d’Orsay in Paris. It turns out to be the exhibition Cézanne deserves and needs: a powerful, even shocking revelation of his genius.
His wife's face becomes a porcelain mask – it is almost perfectly oval
Let’s begin with masks. My suspicion that Picasso did not get them from African or Oceanian art but saw them first in the paintings of Cézanne is amply confirmed by the long row of portraits of his wife, Hortense Fiquet, that line a wall, like Easter Island statues overlooking a bleak ocean. In a portrait he began in 1886, his wife’s face becomes a porcelain mask. It is almost perfectly oval, unlike any human face. It is also as pale as a china cup. Weirdest of all, the lips are in the process of vanishing. Cézanne erases his wife’s mouth in a blank blue-tinged nothingness. For the moment let’s leave any psychological interpretation of that aside. The artist looks at this face as if he were an alien, making a digital simulation of a human being.
His art dealer Ambroise Vollard looks back at him in the same alienated way. In Cézanne’s 1899 portrait, the dealer’s black eyes have no human light: they are like holes in a mask. Vollard’s face is made of patches of colour, interacting greens, reds and yellows. Its harmony is unreal. Thin eyebrows balance above a straight nose under an immense forehead.
Once you start looking for Cézanne’s masks, they are everywhere – in portraits of children, peasants, even of himself. In about 1882 he painted his face in an eerie masterpiece that has been lent by Moscow’s Pushkin Museum. The bald dome of his head in this self-portrait really does look like a dome, or an egg – a perfectly rounded object, out of which bright sunlight carves the simple, stark features of his face culminating in grey and white slashes of beard hair. “What a strange face,” he thinks, as he looks in the mirror. “Who is it?”
If you doubt the mask-like nature of these portraits, you only have to compare them with Picasso’s Portrait of Gertrude Stein (1905-6) to see how it develops its stony carved face directly from such paintings as Cézanne’s Man with Folded Arms (1899). Yet if the modernist deconstruction of the human face is this far advanced in Cézanne’s art, recognisable in the 1880s, where does he get it from? What was he looking at?
Just for one moment, scrutinising that porcelain portrait of Madame Cézanne, did I wonder if he looked at non-European art for inspiration. The face almost resembles a Japanese theatre mask. Japan fascinated the French avant garde in the 19th century – in Manet’s portrait of Cézanne’s lifelong friend Émile Zola, the radical novelist has the obligatory Japanese art in his study.
Yet, as the development of his portraiture in this superbly lucid exhibition suggests, Cézanne did not need to look at works of art from Japan or anywhere else for ideas. He got his idea of the mask from looking at faces themselves, again and again, until he could see them as pure geometry.
In his portraits of his wife there is a terrible distance. When he makes her lips vanish he seems to be doing imaginary violence to her, applying the painterly equivalent of a scold’s bridle. In other paintings it is clear he is idealising her – turning her face into a perfect geometrical form like the egg that hangs by a thread in Piero della Francesca’s Renaissance masterpiece The Brera Madonna.
Instead of concealing his friend's frailty, Cézanne emphasises it
Like Piero, who wrote manuscripts on mathematics, Cézanne searched for geometrical order in the visual world. He famously said art should “treat nature like the sphere, the cylinder and cone”. But Cézanne’s portraits are about a lot more than symmetry; they are about the unease of the human condition.
In Manet’s portrait of Zola, next to a Japanese print and behind Manet’s own Olympia, the author has pinned up a picture by the great Spanish painter of melancholic irony, Velázquez. One of Cézanne’s first portraits in this exhibition is reminiscent of Velázquez’s compassionate paintings of dwarves at the Spanish court. It is a portrait of his artist friend Achille Empéraire, who was born with restricted growth and a spinal deformity. Instead of masking his physical frailty, Cézanne emphasises it by sitting Empéraire in an armchair with a very high back. Posing sadly, he has the clothes, beard and moustache of a romantic bohemian, yet his head massively outweighs his thin legs and emaciated hands.
This is Cézanne’s first great painting. It dates from 1867–8 when he was still on a steep learning curve as an artist. Yet it transcends its technical crudeness: it is profound, speaking of the vulnerable isolation of all human beings. Enthroned like a king in his queer chair, Achille Emperaire is a tragicomic everyman. This is an unsettling and mighty image of the modern self.
Even more than his abstracting of the human face, it is the sensitive intelligence with which Cézanne diagnoses modern unease that makes him such a shattering portraitist. You see it in his 1866 portrait of his friend Antony Valabrègue staring fixedly into space as if in a state bordering on mental disarray. Cézanne cunningly uses the black clothes of 19th-century male fashion to heighten the gloom, setting his subject against a lightless space. It makes you think of Dostoevsky, but perhaps a better fictional analogy is Zola, who also appears in an early portrait here.
Cézanne and Zola were best friends at school in Aix before both becoming part of the Paris avant garde. Zola portrays his friend, sometimes cruelly, in his novels. He brought a new human rawness to fiction: there had never been anything like his stories of sex and violence. His 1867 masterpiece Thérèse Raquin is still shocking in its bleak absurdism, the most relentless, unforgiving noir horror imaginable – and utterly realist. Perhaps their closeness helps us to understand why, even in his first portraits, Cézanne has such a terrifying eye for discomfort, neurosis, weakness.
Why does he keep coming back to his own image? Because he can't find what he's looking for
He turned that eye most ruthlessly on himself. Cézanne’s self-portraits are the emotional equivalent of his paintings of Mont Sainte-Victoire – endlessly questing miracles of scrutiny. What is he looking for? Himself. His true identity. Why does he keep coming back to his own image in the mirror? He can’t find what he was looking for. He thinks he has caught it, but it slips away. He cannot ever be sure who he is.
In a beautiful pairing by the curators, Cézanne in 1885-6 portrays himself in a tall bowler hat (in French it’s a chapeau melon) looking from the side, as if he has just turned round and spotted himself. He looks displeased. This painting has a strong, solid, almost sculptural finish. But then he thinks again. In a second painting he has the same pose and hat but the image is dappled, incomplete, vanishing. Did he really see what he thought he saw? He’s uncertain now. Another unsettling reperception of his own image is a painting from about 1885 based on a photograph taken in 1872. Can the Cézanne who is painting it even be sure he is the same man he was 13 years earlier? He seems far from convinced. One eye in the portrait is almost closed. The figure is isolated in ghostly blue. Who was I, then?
Cézanne not only anticipates Picasso but also Proust and Joyce as he meditates on the nature of the self. We are not continuous beings, his portraits suggest. We are mysteries to ourselves and others, divided and fragmentary behind our masks. He is the true inventor both of modern art and the modern soul.
Three years ago this month, Michael Brown, an unarmed black man, was shot dead by a police officer in Ferguson, Missouri. His death prompted demonstrations, heavy-handed policing, violence and, eventually, national outcry.
Whose Streets?, from film-makers Sabaah Folayan and Damon Davis, follows that arc as it unfolds, from the frontline of the protests to the behind-the-scenes of activists’ homes.
The documentary is released on 11 August – Brown was killed on 9 August 2014 – and offers a brutal assessment of the treatment of black people by police in America. Folayan, who grew up in Los Angeles, and Davis, who is from St Louis, spent more than a year on the ground in Ferguson.
“I wanted to go and bear witness,” Folayan told me. “My main agenda going in was really just to provide an outlet for people to tell their stories, for people to know that their stories were important, that their stories were valuable, that somebody was listening.”
The result is a strikingly intimate film. Whose Streets? debuted at Sundance in January, where it received rave reviews. The Guardian’s Jordan Hoffman gave the film five stars, praising an “outstanding and incendiary documentary” that “does a tremendous end run around mainstream news outlets”.
The depth of the relationships Folayan and Davis were able to establish with the people they met is immediately apparent. From scenes of nursing student and activist Brittany Ferrell interacting with her daughter, Kenna, to Copwatch videographer David Whitt trying to explain to his toddler son why he has to leave their home to go out and protest, the viewer is given a rare look at what activists’ lives are like away from the frontlines of protest.
For Folayan, making the film was a transformative experience. Witnessing the response to Brown’s shooting, both publicly and by the police, changed her perspective on attitudes to race.
“A lot of the officers … you could feel it was personal,” she said. “Many of them seemed to relish their job. You really start to understand that racism is not necessarily just being perpetuated by ignorance or misunderstanding, but that actually there are some people – and they may not represent everyone, but there are enough of them – who are really deriving a sense of gratification from implementing and maintaining this hierarchy.”
In the same way Whose Streets? offers an intimate look at the people caught up in the events in Ferguson, its presentation of the violence between police and protesters is up close and personal.
Filmed on the frontline of clashes, the footage is at times terrifying. Whose Streets? captures the explosions, the teargas and the marauding military-style police vehicles in hair-raising detail. At the same time, the film manages to show the anger and sense of outrage that the heavy-handed response provoked.
One of the many striking moments in the film is an incident where police officers confront a group of black men, who are in their own yard, and order them to “go home” before appearing to hurl teargas in their direction.
“Coming to St Louis and seeing how blatant and unapologetic this discrimination was, it really kind of peeled back whatever filter that I had left as far as being optimistic about why these things are happening,” Folayan said. “[It made me feel] there is nowhere that I can be completely safe and there’s no one who I can really rely on to protect me in the event that I would need some kind of protection. There’s no number that I can call and truly believe that I’ll be safe when they come.”
Whose Streets? is not entirely pessimistic, however. The end of the documentary sees some vindication for activists as the Department of Justice (DoJ) issues a scathing report on policing in Ferguson. The DoJ found that “African-Americans experience disparate impact in nearly every aspect of Ferguson’s law enforcement system”.
Davis said progress is going to be slow. But making the film has given him hope for the future of people of color in the US. Already active in the organizing scene before August 2014, he now sees new faces at meetings and says there is a new energy among activists.
“I just like to remember that we’re in a continuum of things. We’re in a flashpoint moment. My parents are older, they’re like 74, 75. And when they were my age this was unimaginable. Just the fact that their kids would be able to make a movie and figure it out and go do it and tell a story that is blatantly anti-establishment, this is unimaginable for them. So hopefully what we just did here, will make somebody’s future that is unimaginable to us.”
Summer wouldn’t be summer without Wayne Coyne Zorbing overhead in a giant inflatable ball at least once. Armed with heaving slacker classic She Don’t Use Jelly, cosmic lullaby Do You Realize?? and their 2017 material – described by the band as “Syd Barrett meets A$AP Rocky” – you’ll leave as euphoric as you are covered in confetti. Birmingham, 12 August; Bristol, 13 August; Glasgow, 15 August; Nottingham, 16 August
The Madrid band are masters of rabble rousing with their scrappy, sun-scorched tunes and, since the release of their debut, Leave Me Alone, they have barely been off the road. Given festival season is in its final stages, their garage rock racket ought to sound suitably unhinged.Summerhall, Edinburgh, 16 August; Green Man, Crickhowell, 18 August
The Brecon Beacons remains one of the most scenic outdoor sites in the country. This year marks the eco-friendly festival’s 15th anniversary and, assuming the weather is dry, its hilly expanses should be the perfect setting for the lofty soundscapes of Michael Kiwanuka, PJ Harvey, Ride, Actress and the Shins.Glanusk Park, Crickhowell, 17-20 August
While their last record mined the ugliness and intricacies of global politics for inspiration, the grottier elements of the human condition loom large over A Fever Dream – the fourth album from the ever-evolving guitar group. So far, fans have heard the glam stomp of Desire and the math-rock trance of Can’t Do. Catchy, convoluted pop.The Hippodrome, Kingston, 17 August; HMV Manchester, 18 August
Bringing the nostalgic charm of 70s west coast rock, plaintive piano and country melancholia to London for one night only, the Bright Eyes frontman manages to turn tales of catheters and a “cyst in the brain” into something oddly romantic.O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, W12, 18 August
1 Much Ado About NothingShakespeare’s play gets a makeover in Matthew Dunster’s revival, which relocates the action to the Mexican revolution at the start of the last century. Amid war, love blooms between verbal sparring partners Benedick and Beatrice, played with intelligence and vim by Matthew Needham and Beatriz Romilly. It makes for an evening that’s not without its flaws but when this fires on all cylinders it does so to great comic effect.Shakespeare’s Globe theatre, SE1, to 15 October
2 The Secret Diary of Adrian Mole Aged 13¾Getting a musical right is never easy: it takes time, work and patience. Jake Brunger and Pippa Cleary’s adaptation of Sue Townsend’s much-loved 1982 book first popped up at the Curve in Leicester in 2015. It was charming then, capturing all the spotty teenager’s lovable pompousness, yet it is even smarter now in a reworked version full of retro appeal for the adults, which should delight younger family members, too. The Menier Chocolate Factory, SE1, to 9 September
3 Titus AndronicusHave your supper before seeing Blanche McIntyre’s canny, updated revival of Shakespeare’s bloodiest play. You won’t fancy anything following this splatter-fest that culminates with the antihero baking his enemy’s children in a pie. David Troughton gives a very fine performance as Titus, suggesting a man not just fired by revenge but all-consuming grief, while McIntyre cleverly negotiates the drama’s swings from violence and trauma to laugh-out-loud absurdity.Royal Shakespeare theatre, Stratford-upon-Avon, to 2 September
4 RoadJim Cartwright’s seminal mid-1980s work captured all the hopelessness of the young during the Thatcher government. John Tiffany’s revival is a reminder of what a compassionate play this is; one that treats its working-class protagonists with real dignity. It’s an uneven evening – the second half is better than the first – but, at its giddy, gorgeous best, it’s quite extraordinary.Jerwood theatres at the Royal Court, SW1, to 9 September
5 The FerrymanThe title may refer to Greek myth, and the play may be suffused with Irish legend, but Jez Butterworth’s epic family drama is never overwrought as it charts a single day in the life of Paddy Considine’s Quinn, a farmer caught in a love triangle with his wife and his sister-in-law. There is a sitcom feel at times, but that’s no bad thing in a warm, messy and multilayered family drama set against the background of the Troubles.Gielgud theatre, W1, to 6 January
1 Yo, CarmenMaría Pagés and her eight dancers unwrap the history and iconography of Carmen, the heroine of Bizet’s opera and often presented as the classic embodiment of potent female sexuality.The Edinburgh Playhouse, 12-13 August
2 Blak Whyte GrayVisionary hip-hop dance-theatre from Boy Blue Entertainment, which raises its game to a new level by exploring images of freedom in a complex and turbulent world. Royal Lyceum theatre, Edinburgh, 16-19 August
3 Company Wayne McGregor: +/– HumanMcGregor’s dancers are joined by members of the Royal Ballet in this fusion of live dance, music and art installation, which meditates on what we define as human nature. Roundhouse, NW1, to 28 August
This memorably gothic novel is Tiffany McDaniel’s first published work (but, by her own account, the eighth or ninth she has completed). As the winner of last year’s Guardian Not the Booker prize, it divided opinions sharply, some readers finding its relentlessly intense language and biblical plot too much to swallow. But the story of how Autopsy Bliss, a lawyer in the tiny Ohio town of Breathed, invited the devil to visit is a wildly riffing trumpet voluntary that sustains its thrilling high notes from start to finish. The narrator is Autopsy’s son, Fielding Bliss, looking back from wretched old age to the neon-coloured summer of 1984 when Sal, a dishevelled 13-year-old boy, answered his father’s invitation. Did Sal bring the crushing heat with him? Did he cause the seemingly endless sequence of calamities that devastated the town that summer or was a different kind of evil insinuating itself among the citizens of Breathed? A startlingly rich imagination shouts its glorious arrival in this overwhelming narrative of sin, redemption, love and death.
• The Summer That Melted Everything is published by Scribe. To order a copy for £7.64 (RRP £8.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Attention comrades! The first trailer for Armando Iannucci’s Soviet satire The Death of Stalin has been unveiled.
Adapted by Iannucci, Ian Martin and David Schneider from Fabien Nury’s graphic novel of the same name, the film depicts the frenzied political manoeuvrings that transpired in the aftermath of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin’s death in 1953. The film stars a host of prominent British and American actors as Stalin’s underlings, including Steve Buscemi as Nikita Khrushchev, Jeffrey Tambor as Stalin’s heir apparent Georgy Malenkov, Michael Palin as Vyacheslav Molotov, Jason Isaacs as Georgy Zhukov, Simon Russell Beale as Lavrentiy Beria and Homeland star Rupert Friend as Stalin’s son Vasily.
The film is the first Iannucci has directed since 2009’s In the Loop, which was a big-screen spin-off from his acclaimed political satire The Thick of It. In a five-star Guardian review Peter Bradshaw described the film as “relentlessly funny – vicious and delicious”. Iannucci also created the HBO political satire Veep and the BBC comedies The Day Today and I’m Alan Partridge.
The Death of Stalin will be screened at the Toronto film festival next month, before being released in UK cinemas on 20 October.
What was it like to be a slave in the Roman empire? Pretty grim, according to Tanya Landman’s excellent YA novel set in fourth-century Roman Britain. Well, of course, you might say – how could deprivation of liberty and hard labour be anything else? But as we soon discover, there was something even worse in store for many slaves, particularly the young, vulnerable ones – sexual exploitation.
Fourteen-year-old Cassia is a slave on the estate of Titus Cornelius Festus, a rich, powerful Roman and a nasty piece of work. He tries to rape her, but she fights him off and goes on the run to nearby Londinium. There she is saved from being recaptured by the enigmatic Marcus Aquila, a young Roman only a few years older than her. But is he a true friend or an enemy in disguise?
The mystery deepens as Marcus agrees to help Cassia free her little brother Rufus – also a slave on Titus’s estate – and then organise an escape to the last remaining free part of Britain, the unconquered region north of Hadrian’s wall. Why is Marcus willing to do all this, especially as problems and obstacles quickly proliferate?
Their relationship deepens as they trek northwards, the bond between them strengthened by their shared experiences. They make it at last to a place Cassia has long seen in her dreams, the home of her mother’s tribe, a sanctuary where Marcus is also welcome despite being one of the hated oppressors. But he flees back to the Roman province without explanation.
Up to this point, the story has been told from Cassia’s viewpoint; now we switch to that of Marcus and his backstory. We find out that he has been scarred – emotionally and physically – by the brutality of another rich and powerful Roman, his father. Marcus has suppressed his feelings, and isn’t the person he appears to be. But meeting Cassia will change him – and Rome itself – for ever.
Beyond the Wall is a great read, the scenes rattling by in a succession of suspense-filled chases and escapes with plenty of cliffhangers and surprises. The characters are strong, with both Cassia and Marcus very believable as young people in impossible situations. The background research translates well to the page: Roman Britain is brought to life in sight, sound and smell.
I detect an element of homage from one Carnegie winner to another – Marcus Aquila shares his name with the hero of The Eagle of the Ninth, Rosemary Sutcliff’s wonderful Roman Britain novel for young readers. Sutcliff had a relatively benign view of the Pax Romana, an attitude similar to Kipling’s feelings about the Raj. Landman’s view is darker: her Rome is an evil empire based entirely on brutality.
That can make the novel a little oppressive at times. You should also be aware that the relentless verbal and physical assaults on girls and women – and some graphic detail – put it firmly into YA territory. But there are a few decent men in among the sexual predators of the Roman patriarchy, and good does manage to triumph in the end. There is definitely plenty of hope too: amor vincit omnia.
Tony Bradman’s most recent book is Revolt Against the Romans (Bloomsbury).
• Beyond the Wall is published by Walker. To order a copy for £6.79 (RRP £7.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
There is a venerable tradition of literature about the lines humans have created in the British landscape. Alfred Watkins’s The Old Straight Track, Francis Hitching’s Earth Magic, Robert Macfarlane’s The Old Ways and a plethora of natural histories and hedgerow-seeking illuminations – recently John Wright’s The Natural History of the Hedgerow. All are fascinated with fragmentation and connection, and infused with the joys and conundrums we layer on our land with our human footfall. In Linescapes, Hugh Warwick provides a good-humoured, even visionary, perspective on the fragile ecology of our hedges, roads, power lines and railways. Often opting for the hedgehog’s-eye view (his first book, A Prickly Affair, declared his passion for this important indicator species), he reveals how the man-made lines in our landscape present a paradox. They were originally put there to fragment, assert ownership or to restrain livestock, yet over time their edges and intricacies have provided opportunities for adaptable wildlife to flourish. Walls sympathetic to wildlife can contribute to its recovery, sometimes “very slowly, as lichens inch to the corners of the compass. Sometimes with the sneaky speed of a stoat on a mission.”
While we have lost 98% of our wildflower meadows and 50% of our ancient woodland in the last 100 years, Warwick asks us to shift our sightline away from ugliness and ruination towards the potential of new habitats. “Connection is what we need, and what nature needs if we are to tackle the global collapse of species,” he argues.
Wending his way along archeological lines such as the reaves – bronze age boundary walls – of Dartmoor, among hedges, ditches and dykes, Warwick considers how these man-made habitats came to be. In Woodwalton and Holme Fen in Cambridgeshire he sees a rejoining of wild with wild in the Great Fen project; between Peterborough and Huntingdon, where the destruction of rare and fragile wetlands was nearly complete, new lifeblood is returning. Little owls are attracting hordes of birdwatchers; right behind them hares frolic among a managed patchwork of newly scrutinised, rejuvenating land.
Warwick presents the complexities of the task we have created for ourselves. Among the walls of North Ronaldsay, Orkney’s most isolated island – where lichen was scraped from the rock to dye sheep’s wool – black guillemots nest in the interstices of the stones and fulmars roost beside them. But although this architecture is a sanctuary, it can also be a death trap. Fulmars are gregarious and groups can become caught with no runway to take off, so they accumulate and perish.
The author is at his lyrical best when discussing “ancient paths and green lanes”: he sidles alongside highway historian Valerie Belsey to describe “the green lane effect” of the warm, sheltered, microclimatic tunnels of Devon, where 2,000 species can be found within an 85-mile stretch. He focuses his inquisitive eye on beauty and complexity – roots like “a wattle-wall … like dancing figures writhing around one another” – and praises the luxuriant foxgloves, their “lewd openness and their promiscuous seduction of bumblebees”. Later he is seduced by the wobbly line of a badger track in deepest Dorset, “a faint line in the grass which seemed to swallow me then spill me down as I slipped on unexpected slickness”. Sheltering from a rainstorm he shows us “among twisted trees, hearts open to the world, knots rotted into perfect holes for wildlife to shelter”.
None of our engineering escapes Warwick’s ecological fossicking. Canals, for instance, not only made the world work more speedily for humans but were are also useful for invasive and recolonising organisms of all sorts. Railways, an even faster connection, were “animated and deliberate earthquakes, destructive of all wise social habit, or possible natural beauty, carriages of damned souls on the ridges of their own graves’, he writes, quoting John Ruskin. But the verges that are planted with hazel, and so noisy with the trains that predators are deterred, are dormouse heaven.
Warwick is a generous companion and never a prickly know-it-all, even as he presents his manifesto for reconnection. “Wherever we leave our lines we are creating change,” he suggests. All such lines have the potential to help wildlife, he writes, but environmentalists need to sit at the same table as accountants, and all need to keep nature’s wish-list in mind.
• Miriam Darlington’s Otter Country is published by Granta.
• Linescapes: Remapping and Reconnecting Britain’s Fragmented Wildlife is published by Square Peg. To order a copy for £15.29 (RRP £17.99) go to bookshop.theguardian.com or call 0330 333 6846. Free UK p&p over £10, online orders only. Phone orders min p&p of £1.99.
Stepping is a vivid and passionate style of street dance with origins in African-American culture, and particularly the city of Chicago. News of it has reached the UK in movies such as Stomp the Yard and the Step Up franchise. Now here is a heartfelt and valuable, if slightly schematic, documentary about a high school girls’ step team in a tough area of Baltimore.
In 2015, the LLOB, or Lethal Ladies of Baltimore Leadership School for Young Women, set their sights on a national step championship, with the idea of using dance to invigorate their self-belief, self-esteem and community spirit, and boost their chances of college. It’s a thoroughly and admirably aspirational film, bursting with positivity and can-do, and with a sense of purpose that is as clearly choreographed as anything on stage.
My slight reservation is that, when the worries and heartaches and setbacks come – as come they must – some of the reasons seem to be happening off-camera, or lost in the edit. The film is perhaps not entirely candid about all the bad stuff backstage, and there are complex personal issues that are not entirely absorbed. But a very likable film.
The difficult-to-define director of Disney film Pete’s Dragon returns with this cosmic and sometimes comic exploration of human transience. Rooney Mara and Casey Affleck star, but it’s the wordless bedsheet-wearing spectre that everyone’s talking about. Who’s really under there? Affleck? A stunt double? Or perhaps pop phoenix Kesha, who cameos elsewhere.
Subject Atomic Blonde to a feminist critique and it falls down faster than one of its attacking gangs of anonymous henchmen, but Leitch’s action thriller sure looks swish. Charlize Theron stars as an anachronistically styled MI6 agent in 1980s Berlin.
Jean-Paul Belmondo makes snitching look sexy in a new 4K restoration of Melville’s classic crime thriller. This French film is the missing link between 1931’s The Public Enemy and Tarantino’s Reservoir Dogs, although both have more comprehensible plots. Still, when a film is as chic as this, it would be gauche to quibble.
Not another in the Step Up franchise, but an uplifting documentary about the lives of a Baltimore dance team. It has charm, training montages and plenty of characters worth rooting for. It’s only depressing that the subtext of these docs – in low-income black America, be exceptional or be ignored – remains mostly unchanged since 1994’s Hoop Dreams.
Boy meets girl, girls slips into a coma, boy continues seeing her anyway. Based on the real-life courtship of star Kumail Nanjiani and his wife, co-writer Emily V Gordon, The Big Sick isn’t the usual stuff of romance, but its emotional honesty makes it the year’s stand-out romcom.
It was only when someone who read a draft of my novel, about a woman who has an adulterous affair in the 1990s, remarked on my heroine’s “lack of shame” that I began to think more consciously about how other adulterous heroines had felt and fared. I thought: why would she be ashamed of desire? Bad behaviour, maybe, but desire?
I was well acquainted with the first (long) phase of female adultery in western literature: the phase in which this most private of acts was – particularly for women – utterly public, a threat to the social order that required a correspondingly communal punishment. I had on my shelf La Princesse de Clèves (1678) – the first novel of female adultery that had ever bewitched me – but I’d discovered it at a time in my life when I was both addled by hormones and in thrall to an ideal of asceticism, and it was the princess’s renunciation of all pleasure that fascinated me as much as it was her illicit love.
Written by Madame de La Fayette, La Princesse de Clèves tells the tale of a young woman – married off at 16 to the steadfast and loving Prince de Clèves – who falls passionately in love with the Duc de Nemours. Though the affair is never consummated, the prince ultimately dies of sadness and jealousy, upon which Nemours begs the princess to marry him. She refuses and retreats into seclusion, renouncing what she most desires partly out of duty to her late husband, but more out of self-preservation: she fears the unhappiness she’ll suffer when Nemours’ passion wanes, as she is certain it will. In placing peace of mind above passion, she retains a form of freedom. The novel’s refusal to entirely equate adulterous love with a woman’s loss of control over her fate feels sneakily modern.
The centuries pass. Unfaithful heroines meet tragic ends (Emma Bovary, Anna Karenina) though the punishment seems as much for free-thinking as for sex, the sex being merely the outward sign of a dangerous inner autonomy. Hester Prynne, in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter (1850), is sensational. As Elizabeth Hardwick notes in Seduction and Betrayal, Hester’s woes – her imprisonment, the illegitimate daughter, her lover’s cowardice, that scarlet letter – “come to her, not as depressing clouds of consequence, but as opportunities for self-knowledge, for a strange and striking stardom”, prefiguring what’s ahead: sexual transgression as a path to empowerment.
By the late 1960s, the punishment narrative was pretty much in tatters
In Kate Chopin’s The Awakening (1899), Edna Pontellier is liberated from “a life-long, stupid dream” by both sexual passion and art. Edna’s future, as she tells her lover, doesn’t hinge on her husband setting her free. “If he were to say, ‘Here, Robert, take her and be happy; she is yours,’ I should laugh at you both.” Edna experiences her moral downfall as spiritual uplift. But what then? What place for an awakened woman in late-19th century Louisiana? Edna drowns herself – less over her lover than over the realisation that her aspirations and her life’s possibilities are irreconcilable.
I like to think it was a letter from Mary McCarthy that signalled the moment when killing off one’s heroine in answer to her infidelity was no longer a serious option. At the end of A Charmed Life (1955), Martha Sinnott perishes in a car crash, but McCarthy had written to her agent that the end was a joke, a rug pulled out from under the reader: “The original idea was to have her die or made sterile by the abortion. I prefer this comic twist, which carries a similar idea but without sentimentality.”
By the late 1960s, the punishment narrative was pretty much in tatters. Adultery was still tussling with the social order, but now inseparable from the general drift and breakage of the wider society. The social convention was free love, and the adultery tales of the period can depict a rather joyless, even compulsory, indulgence.
In Paula Fox’s Desperate Characters (1970), Sophie Bentwood has had an affair, but the adultery is largely emblematic. At the novel’s outset, Sophie is bitten by a stray cat, which may or may not be rabid, an image of the feral and the anarchic infiltrating the domestic. She almost hopes she’s been infected: it would create a balance “between the quiet, rather vacant progression of the days … and those portents that lit up the dark at the edge of her own existence.”
So where are we now? The critic James Wood has remarked that adultery has withered as a fictional theme because, nowadays, “it drags such little consequence behind it”. This argument depends on a certain definition of consequences – banishment, punishment, imprisonment, that sort of thing. But if by consequence we mean the questions of who one is and how one should live – not minor matters, and questions woven into novels of female adultery since The Princesse de Clèves – then adultery, like any form of serious betrayal, still matters in fiction.
Two more recent novels, by Monica Ali and Anne Enright, are quietly radical takes on female infidelity. (One also thinks of John Banville’s Ancient Light (2012), in which – marvellously – the heroine doesn’t die because she commits adultery, but has an affair because she’s going to die.)
Ali’s 2003 novel Brick Lane brings to mind La Princesse de Clèves. We’re once again in a traditional society – here transported and fractured – with a heroine whose life is thrown off course by extramarital love. In both cases, the heroine renounces her lover, but while the princess afterwards withdraws from society, Ali’s Nazneen enters the world as an independent being.
At the novel’s end, Nazneen, a village girl from Bangladesh, parts from both husband and lover, and takes on the challenge of raising two girls on her own in London, devoid of any certain community, in a post-9/11 world. We’ve come a long way since Chopin brought her heroine to the threshold, then found no suitable world for her to step out into.
Enright’s The Forgotten Waltz (2011) is set during Ireland’s boom and bust. Society is no longer punitive – there is a post-moral feel to the novel (“the bank was licking me slowly all over”). The “seismic moral shift” that is marital betrayal is fully felt, even as Enright deflates the conventions of the punishment narrative. Gina’s low point is seedy rather than suicidal: with the economy tanking, she takes work as a “pimp” – shepherding bikini-clad girls into bars to hawk flavoured vodka.
Such is the messy business of debt and divorce. Gina and Sean have left their respective spouses and are tentatively, inelegantly, cohabiting. (Enright is, as always, wonderful at capturing the subtle shifts in the psychological climate.) If there is melancholy running through the book’s second act, it is the bittersweetness that can come with our having got what we wanted; it is the small earthly ups and downs of togetherness set against the mythologising fantasies that accompany infidelity. It is the quiet guilt we live with rather than the melodrama of self-immolation.
In my novel, there is a social order to contend with. It is the order of the small Irish town. My heroine has no idea what is known, or by whom, or what judgments are being made – all of which are ultimately irrelevant. She feels the weight of the old narratives, when it’s the new narratives that apply. Understanding this means learning how to live.
Molly McCloskey’s When Light Is Like Water is published by Penguin.
Spoiler alert: this is for people watching Top of the Lake weekly on the BBC. Please do not add spoilers from later episodes.
Repeating the success of an acclaimed first series is never easy. Stick with the winning formula and they’ll say you played it safe; tamper with it and you risk shedding fans who want more of the same. Whatever has gone wrong with Top of the Lake series two seems beyond repair as we pass the halfway mark. Jane Campion’s tense powerhouse of a first series from 2013 has been replaced with a confused mess this time around.
The low point came in episode three on Thursday when our hero Robin was somehow unable to defend herself against Al Parker who was in a wheelchair, despite being half his age and a trained detective. This is the same woman who opened this series training police cadets to handle suspects resisting arrest, a woman who bottled one of her rapists and brought down a paedophile ring in series one. As the room burnt around them as they struggled, it felt like an appropriate metaphor for the series.
It is a very different show from the one we remember. The tough detective returning to her remote hometown to confront her demons and solve a perplexing case was a strong premise. The dense beech forests, epic gorges and looming mountains of Laketop formed a powerful backdrop to the action – and suggested dark elemental forces were at work. That creeping menace grew the longer Tui stayed missing. As little as we knew about her, we cared about her wellbeing. Three episodes into series two and it’s hard to care about anyone – even Cinnamon, the girl in the suitcase whose murder Robin investigates.
The relationships that once formed the heart of the story now seem dispensable. The comedic element of mismatched buddy cops Robin and Miranda feels like a distraction. The Bridge managed this dynamic with Martin and Saga but there was a lightness of touch involved. Robin and Miranda could be Arnold Schwarzenegger and Danny DeVito in Twins, and while Miranda’s romance with her boss Adrian might pass muster in a 90s romcom, here it is totally misplaced.
Perhaps series one’s greatest asset was its exploration of patriarchy and rape culture. It tries to do the same this time around but again it falls flat. Peter Mullan’s Matt Mitcham was a monster but a complex one, artfully drawn with nuance and even some sympathy. It’s a stark contrast to on-the-nose sexism of the Fuck Wizard and the rest of the cafe regulars, the gurning Aussie larrikins Sydney apparently stuffs its police stations with and the comically awful Puss, part-time sexual predator and world’s worst English tutor. A parade of one-dimensional grotesques doesn’t help us understand how misogyny is ingrained in everyday life, and it makes for some turgid drama.
No blame can be attached to the performers. Elisabeth Moss is compelling even when her accent wavers, Alice Englert does a good job under difficult circumstances playing Mary and Nicole Kidman’s presence and talent is wasted on the nightmarish Julia. As for Gwendoline Christie, I can’t help feeling that she has put in one of the performances of the year but for a completely different show.
Top of the Lake set the bar high and could not reach the same level again. This is not unprecedented nor is it fatal. Broadchurch allowed its first series to bleed too heavily into its second, haemorrhaging credibility as a result, but then came back with a much-improved third outing.
Its raw materials are good. Campion is a bold, gutsy writer-director with impressive visual flair, Robin Griffin is a great lead character played by a talented character actor in Moss. It just needs to find a way to retain its themes without beating us over the head with them.
Maybe more than anything it needs to recapture the prevailing sense of primal dread from Laketop. A sprawling metropolis like Sydney doesn’t cut it. Top of the Lake needs to get back to the country.